ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e86	Honourable co-representatives! Inger Dag, formerly Inger Dag Steen, has passed away at the age of 86. She was the first major representative of SV from Vestfold and was elected for the period 1989-1993. Inger Dag worked for SF and SV for many years, both before and after the ageing period 1989–93. She was there when the Socialist People's Party was started. Inger Dag represented SV in Sandefjord from 1967 to 1979, from 1983 to 1989 and then a period from 2003 to 2007. She also represented SV in Westfold County from 1983 to 1989, part of this period as group leader. Inger Dag was born in Kristiansand in 1933. She was educated at the textile line at the Statens crafts and art industry school from 1951 to 1955. After a while she settled in Sandefjord. She was married to sculptor Knut Steen. On the Stortinget, Inger put Day in the Agriculture Committee, where she spoke the case of peasants. As the holder of the small ‘Stokket’, she was the leader of Westfold Farmers’ and Small Farmers’ Teams from 1997 to 2002. From 2000 to 2002, she also served as a member of the Norwegian Farmers' and Small Farmers' Association, and in this organisation she was an honorary member from 2006. She also took an active part in No to the EU and the Forum for Development and the Environment, which naturally followed her interest in a land-based agricultural policy. Based on his professional background, Inger Dag engaged himself naturally in the board of Vestfold image artists and artisans. Inger Dag was awarded the King's Medal of Merit in silver in 2007. Inger Dag was a colorful, prominently engaged and unemployed person. As a politician, she believed in the value of knowledge and read case documents, reports and investigations more closely than most. Her political main over many years was the development of double tracks on the Westfold Railway. We will remember her mood and warmth of heart, the care she showed to other people, and her burning commitment to nature, environment and justice. We bring peace to Inger Day's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e109	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e114	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on the follow-up of falsely convicted asylum seekers in the same way as in the Nav cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e119	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e124	On behalf of the representatives of Solfrid Lerbreck, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to clarify the rules and obligations of the Law on People's Rights to International Agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e129	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e135	Thank you so much, and good morning! On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Freddy André Øvstegård, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen and extend the system of free legal assistance to those who have been victims of the social security scandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e142	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e162	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Business Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e193	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e200	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation in dealing with these matters. SV has submitted two representative proposals concerning the fisheries and maritime food industry, which we are going to vote on in the Chamber today. The fisheries and seafood industry is very important for Norway. They are our main export industries for oil and gas. They create jobs and activity throughout the country. At the tamp of 2019, a new record was set for the export of seafood – 107 billion. kr. It's been a double since 2012. It shows that the seafood industry is a future industry. That means that we have to take care of seafood in a good way that still makes it competitive, but also sustainable. The proposal for a representative in Document 8:150 S proposes the introduction of a requirement to replace the soya protein in current fish feed with sustainable feed by 2028. The proposal also proposes a transposition directive for sustainable feed for fish for farming purposes. In the past, the industry has shown great ability to convert to alternative feed ingredients and new raw materials have already been used by fish feed producers. The feed industry has already introduced a number of sustainability and soya requirements for its suppliers. The content of soya protein in fish feed today is not more than 25 pst. The majority of the Committee, including the Advance Party, agree with the proposers that it is important that the aquaculture industry reduces its environmental footprint, including: by developing and putting into service more sustainable fish feed. But the representative proposal kicks open doors to a large extent. Work is already in progress both in industry and in administration to reduce the environmental impact of the farming industry. Adopting the SV proposal will be to impose further obligations on the industry in a work that has been undertaken to a large extent. It seems to be very unnecessary. The proposal for a representative in Document 8:185 S sets out 18 different proposals to increase the sustainability of the Norwegian farming industry. The farming industry has several challenges that need to be solved, as the representative suggests. The industry itself and the administration are very conscious of these challenges, and they are constantly working to solve them. All food production puts footprints in the environment. We must work on this as little as possible, but at the same time the farming industry must have competitive and predictable framework conditions – these conditions must be balanced. In his comment on the proposal for a representative of the Minister for Fisheries, he wrote that it would be set up for a comprehensive conversion of the Norwegian aquaculture industry. The majority of the Committee, including the Advance Party, believes that a radical conversion of Norwegian aquaculture industry only a few years after the review of the notification. Article 16 for 2014-2015, Predictable and environmentally sustainable growth in Norwegian salmon and trout top sport will be very small in line with the objective of the foreseeable framework conditions for the farming industry. In particular, I think it would be problematic for the proposal to ask for a review of the traffic light system to clarify whether the system is environmentally sound and in line with existing environmental legislation. The traffic lighting system was recently introduced and this is the second time that the government is to color the production areas. After just twice the system is not yet properly tested. It would be unfortunate to add more environmental indicators before assessing the impact of this system. As for other industries, there are challenges in the maritime food industry, but I want to praise the marine food industry for the job it does to develop the industry for the future. At a time when the country is facing major shifts, there are increasing numbers of people pointing to the opportunities in the sea, and the seafood industry is ready to use the opportunities when we have politicians who are behind us and support the important job they have in the future. We do not support the two motions for resolutions Nos 8 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e225	First, I would like to welcome the Minister to the Chamber. It's probably the first time he's been here as a minister -- there's been a lot of other things to do with the last few days. The industry we are currently dealing with is an important industry for the future. It delivers important and great, amazing results. That is why it is quite appropriate that we now have a debate on how the industry should contribute more to the community, but also how to make it more sustainable. There is a great deal of consensus that this industry will grow. It's important for the future, it's important for the incomes of Norway, and not least it's important to create activity along our entire coast. It must then be sustainable and forward-looking, and political demands and expectations must be made, while at the same time creating predictable framework conditions for industry. Then it's good and important that the industry does a lot by itself, and it does. It's doing a lot to bring down the environmental impact today. Knowledge and research are important and resources are spent on it, but also to get new, sustainable solutions that include technology. This industry must also expect stricter requirements to be met in the future. This is why it is important, for example: the development of the traffic lighting system with several indicators, factors which the industry itself can influence and would like to develop together with the industry. It would have been wise to get a complete case to Stortinget where we can just deal with these matters in a proper way, not in pieces and divided. Therefore, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party ask the Government to provide a large-scale notification on the framework conditions and sustainability of the farming industry. It should be possible to support it – we should be able to agree on that. That would be good for the industry – then we can create framework conditions and develop the industry together in a real way. With that, I take up the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e240	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e245	In this case, the right will support the comments of the case rapporteur, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, of the Progress Party, and want a knowledge-based and sustainable approach to the industry. We're talking about an industry that may be the most amazing industrial venture we've ever had in Norway, alongside the powerful industry and the oil industry. It is also an industry that has great potential for the future and that provides climate-friendly solutions, climate-friendly products and sustainable products for world consumption. Practice in the industry is to use the energy in the sea to provide a good water supply for domestic animals living in the mermaids around Norway. It is a little surprising that we are still seeing proposals which mean that the climate impact of this industry will increase – either by changing the current practice, or by bringing it up on land, where one has to use more energy, which will result in greater emissions in terms of climate – in order to manage the same quantities of production. Once again, SV provides a very strong attack on a district industry. Combined with previous proposals that SV has voted for or promoted even in this room, this is a proposal that means that Norwegian aquaculture as we know it can no longer be practised. We look at SV's proposals together here and in the past have voted in favour of establishing a completely different standard for this industry than for other industries. I would like to join in the comments from Cecilie Myrseth on the requirements we have to make for the industry in aquaculture, just as in all other industries we are going to develop in Norway. There must be strict requirements. Those requirements must both go and follow technological developments. But it is not that we need to have our own standards for each industry, so that there are different environmental requirements and environmental levels related to each industry. No other industries have the type of requirements proposed by SV in these proposals and previous proposals, and there are currently few, if any, nourishment or known solution for aquaculture without emissions in any form, directly or indirectly, even if SV has previously voted in favour of a total ban on emissions from this industry. Now, if we're going to ban parts of the food that the fish eat, we're going to have to ban all known forms of exhaust. We must ban the same substances that are lawful on ships, ships and other installations and that have already been answered that it is not possible to prohibit today. We must prohibit the administration of nutritional salts to fjords, without any negative effect being shown. We have to withdraw all breeding permits if these environmental requirements are broken, i.e. zero emissions, no escape, no leaching, no feed. It's just ghost fish swimming around in Norwegian mermaids after this, I can almost say a little rudely. In practice, this means that almost all existing marine aquaculture in Norway will have to stop. The paradox is that the only thing that almost or not entirely reaches these environmental standards is landings with seines – I say almost because there are emissions to the sea and air from these plants. Then we can get the paradox that Norway will supply set fish and melt to other countries, which will take the most profitable part of the value chain, while in Norway we are missing a large part of the value creation and coastal people are missing jobs and value creation associated with it in slaughterhouses, wellboats, marine facilities, the supplier industry, etc. Our competitors in Chile, Canada, Scotland, the Faeroe Islands and on land in the United States and in the Gulf States would, if these proposals had been adopted, lead all the way to the bank. So I'll link some comments to soya. I am not surprised that one brings out soya as the great criminal in terms of feed for farmed fish, but one should be very aware that although the proposal has good intentions, the consequence of the proposal would not necessarily be what the proposers want, namely greater sustainability. If the method of counting used to register the soya climate pressure had been used in Norwegian agriculture, there would also have been significantly higher climate emissions than what we officially register today. It essentially assumes that when a non-buyer soya, the forest will be planted in the area where the soya has been grown. That's not the case. If one looks a little more realistic about the kind of reduction in emissions in a sheep if one ceases to use soybean in Norwegian agriculture and aquaculture, the reality — at least at present and possibly with the exception of harvesting at a lower trophic level of marine species — is that all other methods give a greater impression. At the same time, we see that the farming industry is in the process of reducing its use of soya, and one of the companies, both on the feed side and on the production side, has ended the use of soya from Brazil and today imports from other sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e264	I want to thank SV for addressing these issues, so we get a debate on that. Breeding is a young industry in Norway. The breeding industry is a young industry to manage for Norway. To underpin all policy developments, there needs to be a strong framework and a knowledge-based approach to it. In the previous period, a growing regime for the farming industry, a rather strict regime, was adopted. It was quite clear at the time of the debate on this, that it was time for new indicators to emerge in the future as to whether the industry should produce more or less than what one did then. So I'm very confused when the case spokesman here says that you can't include new indicators for what can give growth, that it's too early to do it. I mean that the question is, does it have the power to develop good enough indicators in important areas that it is possible to include them in the system that you have? There is also a proposal here dealing with fish feed, with the slightly pompous additional title ‘green new deal’. I think this is a problem that is important when it relates to both land and sea. Much attention will be paid to the soya in the fish feed. For the Central Party, it is important that a maximum possible portion of the food we produce in the sea is based on Norwegian resources, that we build complete food chains, and that the feed also comes from Norway to a greater extent. Then a set of measures must be implemented, and I believe that an interaction between agriculture and farming in the case of soya is the right way to go. It's probably a little bit until there's one. Other issues that have to be taken into account are access to land, and I note that there is a certain movement when it comes to giving municipalities a slightly larger share of the value creation that takes place in the farming industry. I record this movement both in batches with government power and in industry itself. It's a pleasure. The centre party discussed the farming industry at the previous national meeting and then said that it wanted a further growth for the industry, but that this should be done in a resilient way. That's a good starting point. When we know that it is five years since the last time the Stortingen had an overall assessment of the farming industry, the Center Party believes it is time to get a comprehensive review of the industry to point out the course for the industry further. There is a completely different way of working than that we should possibly have voted through some of the SV's proposals today. I think we have to see things in context, and that things have to be properly paid before we decide them. I am absolutely sure that we will receive a big message, in line with what the Center Party and the Workers' Party have proposed in the setting. It does not come as a result of a decision today, but it probably comes either as a decision in Stortinget at some time, or at the initiative of the Minister for Fisheries – simply because it is necessary, simply because one needs to discuss: Should we have a new round of development concessions? How do we compare it to what one did in the previous round? How do we manage to get an acceptance for the farming industry, so that the farming industry does not end up as the new wind industry, an industry that nobody wants? It will be precious to our country. Therefore, I believe it is important that we go ahead as politicians and see some goals that the industry can pursue. When I listened to the right-wing fisheries policy spokesperson here, I felt a humiliating attitude to the proposals made by SV. The center part is disagreeable in many of them, but we don't have to be patronizing, because you don't get a good breeding industry if one lets the largest bull in the class decide which one should be the default. The industry needs to work on proposals here, but the authorities also need to take initiatives and set goals that the industry can pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e281	I'm dealing with our suggestions. We will, in turn, support the proposal of the Centre Party and the Labour Party on case No. 3 – just so it's said. I have listened to all the articles and come here with a few simple notes. This is a matter that we have been discussing for many years now. My impression is that there's a contrast between the post that the Right's Fisheries Policy figure held, and the conversations we have with people in the industry. The industry is much more forward-looking than the Right in this case, so it surprises me that one just rejects and paints the hell on the wall. There's a big difference here, because when I talk to the industry and say that we have to go in the direction of no pollution, that we have to go in the direction of taking care of all the waste, that we have to go in the direction of getting a lot more of the feed in Norway and building industry on it, and that we have to have a higher level of animal welfare, they're quite a few, those who are working on this. The one thing that's disagreeable is the pace. They think SV suggests a much too high a pace. They think this is going to be the industry itself, and that's the big difference here. We know how the state has worked to secure the general public, whether it's air, or it's sea, etc. That's when the state has made demands. That's what's got our way. There are very few cases in Norwegian history that the industry itself has cleaned up damage to the general public. Is there one thing that's going to decide this industry, is that we're environmentally at the forefront, that we're environmentally world-leading. That's what's going to determine the value this has in the market. That's what's going to decide if we're still going to be world leaders in technology development, which is also an important export industry in this. That's what defines this industry in the future. Today we have a traffic light voice. It is not new. It's from 2015. That's when we decided. There is no new system, it is a five-year-old system. Carrier power indicators point to the traffic light system. Everyone here knows that there's only one indicator so far, and that's salmonnus. That's what defines whether there's sustainable growth in the industry or not. Everyone here understands that it's quite deficient. When the big deal came in the previous period, there was an idea from the whole Storting that there would be more indicators. I would like to add that the representatives from the Progress Party also said so. So it's quite new that one says that one should be careful with a system that we can thereby duplicate into salmon-tail indicators – that it's just salmon-lead that's going to determine the growth of the industry. Then we're in on the social acceptance of the industry. This area uses an area where there are other economic operators and where there are already large conflicts. By making demands when it comes to pollution, and by making sure that the waste is exploited, there is a concern, anger, anger from the others who are using the sea. Not least, as we illustrate in our proposals – we are making several flies in one taste – by taking advantage of all the waste to create a new industry, by trying to become self-sufficient in animal feed, building new industries, which are now outsourcing to other countries. It's not to make soya into a villain, it's to make soya into a commodity that is highly uncertain if we can get to the extent that we already have today, and at least if we're going to make this 5th power and increase the amount of soya in Norway. Everyone sees that it's not possible. Creating a framework for this now, so that one can build an industry in Norway where we can produce own protein ingredients, and where there is already an exciting industrial project – it surprises me that no one in the Committee supports that project, that the industrial line in the feed issue is not something more appealing for more. On the other hand, subtropical fish indicate that one of them is going to be trapped in the fifth of this industry. The power in it is highly doubtful, and no one takes responsibility to explain how it is going to go. This is a case that will come back, and I believe that the post to Nilsen from Right will go into the history books when we see how the breeding in the future will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e296	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has addressed the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e301	The left will join in and create a green future with freedoms and opportunities for all. In this perspective, the fisheries and maritime food industry is crucial. Norway is ploughing over large sea areas with fishing resources that provide a potential for the creation of valuables far beyond petroleum revenues. With good framework conditions for sustainable exploitation, the marine food and fisheries industries can ensure a growth and revenue base along the coast. Fishing and maritime feeding is one of our most important district industries, which ensures light in the houses along the coast, and the sea makes Norway a unique nation. It's the sea interacting with people who have secured us the riches we're so lucky to have today. We are lucky in Norway, but access to resources also gives us a lot of responsibility. The management of marine resources within a responsible, sustainable framework is the responsibility of the population in common. The left is concerned that resource withdrawals are to be determined by public authorities and that all fishing activities are to be carried out in such a way that they do not contribute to the over-taxation of fish stocks. At the same time, we need to facilitate the further development of the industry in order to maximise the values of marine resources. For our part, the objective is to ensure sustainable value creation throughout the value chain and attractive, competitive jobs in local communities dependent on fish. Climate change and natural loss threaten the freedom of future generations. It also affects life in the sea, and we see that it has all given rise to major changes affecting Norwegian fisheries and seafood. We are concerned that the Norwegian farming industry should be environmentally sustainable and regulated on the basis of the best knowledge we have at all times. All food production will affect the environment to a greater or lesser extent, but the image shall be kept within a sustainable framework. The cultivation of seafood shall not be at the expense of our vulnerable wild axis. Here the industry has a great responsibility to prevent the spread of disease, salmonids and escaped farmed salmon. We also believe that new technologies in the fishing industry will play a crucial role in the ability of industry to grow, while environmental and climate sustainability must be in place. We are pleased that the aquaculture industry itself is proactive and has set the goal of reducing its environmental footprint by 2030. We think it is positive that Norwegian industry writes that industry needs to develop technologies and methods to ensure access to sustainable feed. We honor the professional environments we have in the Marine Research Institute and Nofima, which provide increased knowledge of the sustainable management of marine species and of alternative feed in the farming industry. This is absolutely necessary. One of the grips to be taken is to replace soya protein with insect protein, micro-organisms and animal and vegetable by-products. Lower trophic species, including marine algae and phytoplankton, should represent an important proportion of the raw material in seafood production, including feed for use in aquaculture. The choice of raw materials for feed shall be sustainable with regard to ensuring diversity of species and the conservation of rainforest and other biotopes. There's a lot of exciting happening here, for example. research on wood as protein-rich fish feed, which they are researching at the Foods of Norway at NMBU. That's what we're after. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is already the second largest export industry in Norway and may become even more important. This requires a blue rhythm shift with a clear green profile. Fisheries resources must be well managed, and research on ecosystems in fjords and seas must be strengthened. The marine industry needs to solve biological challenges such as salmon and soya use in feed. If we are to succeed in the green shift, we must create new, green jobs while cutting emissions. In the left we believe the fishing industry will still be one of our most important industries in the future, and we have faith in the industry. In cooperation with the research communities and Norwegian authorities, we can solve the major challenges for industry and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e324	Let me begin by saying that it was well spoken by the representative of Skkelstad. There has been a raging trend in the Norwegian aquaculture industry since the early 1970s. Fish farming has gone from reintroducing creative entrepreneurs to becoming one of Norway’s most important export industries, delivering high-quality products to a global market. For Norwegian coastal districts, job creation and value creation in the farming industry represent an important contribution to the local economy and to maintaining housing. With the support of an overall increase, the current government has put in place the so-called traffic lighting system – with the associated marine funds – which ensures host municipalities for breeding activities a major part of the value creation in the industry. The traffic lighting system was introduced in the spring of 2015 in connection with the government’s submission of a wholesale notification 16, Report. Article 16 for 2014-2015, on predictable and environmentally sustainable growth in Norwegian salmon and trout tops, and it was put into service for the first time in the autumn of 2017. A total increase in 2015 endorsed the use of lice impact as an environmental indicator for rolling every two years, and the government was to start work on producing emissions as an environmental indicator and in the long term assess whether such an indicator should be introduced. In the opinion of the Committee of Announcements. St. 16 for 2014-2015 there was also an overall nutrition committee which stated the following on the importance of predictability for the aquaculture industry: ‘The Committee points out that salmon farming lasts for more than two years from planning to the time of the slaughter of fish, often longer. A competitive and viable Norwegian aquaculture industry therefore demands that the framework conditions remain constant over time. These include, inter alia, areas such as taxes, levies, operating rules, control procedures, reporting procedures, growth criteria and the size and frequency of allocation of growth.» In the light of the consensus in 2015, it is therefore strange that SV in the two cases we are now dealing with, promotes a whole range of 22 proposals, which, if they had been adopted, would have dramatically changed the framework conditions for an overall Norwegian aquaculture industry. We in the Christian People's Party will therefore agree with Harald Nesvik, Minister of Fisheries at the time, who writes in his reply to the Business Committee dated 11 October 2019 that requiring such radical conversion of Norwegian aquaculture industry only four years after the handling of the Storing Communication 16 is very little in line with the objective of predictable framework conditions. However, we agree with the proposers that the aquaculture industry has several challenges to solve. This applies both to farming and to the production of feed. If the industry is to exploit the potential for further growth, it is essential that environmental sustainability is taken into account. It applies to lice infestations, but also to discharges, escapes and disease control. It is then important for us to stress that industry actors themselves have a focus on these environmental challenges. The system of free development permits, introduced in the autumn of 2015, is an important incentive for the development of new marine technologies that can help solve environmental and land problems, and is currently undergoing a lot of exciting research and development. Like the other government parties, we would also like to stress that this year, the first time in production areas with too high lice impact, red light will lead to reductions in biomass at sea. It is therefore important that the traffic light system operates for a sufficient period of time to allow authorities and operators in the farming industry to gain experience from the impact of the new system. When such assessments have been made, it may be appropriate to assess whether several environmental indicators should be added, as notified by the Government in the Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. It is now a second relatively short time that the opposition delivers proposals for representatives that would have significantly undermined the predictability and framework conditions of one of Norway’s main district industries — especially for the smaller and locally anchored companies — if they had been adopted. Less than a year has passed since the Workers' Party, supported by the Centre Party and the SV, proposed to investigate the time-limiting of new and existing authorisations for aquaculture – with the consequences it would have had for creditworthiness and the possibility of initial investment in the aquaculture industry. However, we note that the Workers' Party and the Centre are not willing this time to go as far as SV in terms of profound changes in the framework conditions for the aquaculture industry – otherwise without requiring prior investigation of the effect the proposals would have on nutritionists. Nevertheless, two questions arise following this case: Will the opposition parties be able to implement a common policy for one of our main district industries in the event of a government change? And in that case, how far are they willing to go in view of rapid and unpredictable changes in the framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e351	Let me first thank you for the reception. It's the first time I stand on this very solemn pulpit, and I know that both respect and great awe of it. I would like to thank the representatives of the Committee on these proposals and welcome this debate on perhaps one of Norway's most important industries. Aquaculture is a forward-looking industry. I agree with the proposers that the farming industry has several challenges to solve. That is why I welcome the fact that the Business Committee is focusing on this very point. Then I don't agree with the premise that the perception that the aquaculture industry is not environmentally sustainable until the impact is almost equal to zero. That's how, and several of the representatives have said it, all food production and human activity puts footprints in the environment. My goal is to keep this image within acceptable limits, while building a socially and economically sustainable industry. Research and innovation are developing new solutions and giving us new knowledge to ensure a viable breeding industry. This is precisely why the government is committed to continuing a high level of funding for industrial research and innovation. As politicians, we need to be humble enough to admit that we are not the ones with the technological expertise and the innovation power. Our task is to lay down the industry framework, so that it continues to evolve for the benefit of the whole community. The industry itself strongly focuses on developing the industry as a whole in a more sustainable direction, and I am a technology optimist. It is important to bear in mind that the traffic lighting system – which has gained broad support in this room as well – is not the only one that regulates the environmental impacts of this industry. We have a comprehensive regulatory framework that sets the framework for how the industry operates. In this context, we set out the framework for how the industry can affect the environment around the plants on a daily basis, how to treat the fish and how to deal with the disease. The traffic lighting system allows us to assess every two years how environmentally sustainable industry is growing. Because let's be clear: we want growth. The world needs more food, and more healthy food, and more of this food in the future must come from the sea. This year the government has for the first time put into operation the traffic lights in their entirety. I therefore believe that this is not the time to change how to regulate the growth of the industry, or to supplement the salmonnus as an indicator with other indicators. A radical conversion of the Norwegian aquaculture industry only five years after the processing of the aquaculture notification — and with the first full use of the traffic lighting system this year — is very little in line with the objective of predictable framework conditions. That doesn't mean that I don't want us to get even better knowledge of the factors that affect the environmental footprint of this industry. The production of food and other products we buy and use occurs in value chains with many terms that are largely international. All value chains require transport and generate greenhouse gas emissions at all stages. The food we eat comes from all over the world. Seafood has de facto lower greenhouse gas emissions compared to other livestock production, and emissions are working to reduce further. The breeding industry shall be and is one of the industries in which Norway will be able to live in the future. It's the most important industry we have for our districts. It creates major ring-effects, jobs and thus also the basis for employment and housing. To achieve this industry as sustainable and strong as we all want, we need to ensure that the industry operates and develops in a sustainable way. This works both for the industry itself – first and foremost – and for the department and myself every day, and I want to invite the Stortinget to a good cooperation in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e381	This case is in many ways rejected by a large majority, but perhaps the biggest issue for the Storting when we now have the Minister of Fisheries at the Stockholm Stock Exchange is the issue that has been raised in the press that the Council of State has been illegally trying to make itself richer on behalf of taxpayers. This is an opportunity for the Council of State to say a little about it, and it probably doesn't just surprise me that the Council of State is not taking advantage of the opportunity to come up with some words about this situation, and the secure Storting. For high demands are made both legally and morally in order to sit at the King's table, and to come to the Storing. So the question to the council is whether he can tell the council a little bit about what kind of role the council should have in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e388	The President would point out that this issue is beyond the topic of debate today. It is therefore left to the Council of State to decide whether to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e393	The answer to that is very short. I have commented so far on this matter on a number of occasions recently, and I have pointed out for myself that I have made some assessments that I would probably have made differently on the question of the conclusion of arrears in the new municipality of Senja. Then I have also explained the premise that I started as State Secretary in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries at the beginning of November – that I had an overwhelming responsibility in the merger process with the three other municipalities of the new municipality of Senja, and that for that reason, in the short period of November and December, I had to try to fill the two functions to the best of my ability. That's how I've tried to describe the situation. Then I've cleaned up the things that I had to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e398	I would also like to welcome the Council of State to the Stortinget and would like to stress that I hope that, when we have major and important fisheries policy issues to deal with in the Stortinget, we will have a fisheries minister who can and is able to use the time to say on the political issues, and not what is around. Governments say it's too early now, after five years, to start a big process. But this is an industry where changes happen quickly, where it is important that they are knowledge-based, and that one has a comprehensive review, for example. in the form of a bulk notification, which may be based on what is sound and facts. So to the question, how long does the Council of State think it is relevant to wait in such a fast changing industry? And is the Council of State afraid to be too late with its gathering review?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e407	As for what I said about it being too early, this is the second time the traffic light system is being tested too fully. The first time was in 2017, two years after the adoption of the aquaculture notification and the system. Then the assessments were made on colouring, allowed growth in those areas where it was clear for growth, and put it at rest in the yellow areas and did nothing in the red areas either. This year it was the second time the traffic light system was tested, and this time the system in its entirety was used to reduce production in the red areas. Then I think we need to spend a little more time and get both long-termity and predictability, so that the industry itself can know what the framework conditions are. That doesn't mean, as I also said, that we don't always want to find other environmental indicators that can be assessed, but right now I think it's too early to change this system to regulate growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e414	I thank you for your answer. I would also like to make a call to the Council of State, and it is to contact the Council of Languages and get some help to perhaps find a name for this traffic light system, so it is possible to understand for others who are not in the nutrition committee and in the political leadership of the Department, or who read more than the jokes of the Fisherman magazine. It's my call, because what I'm also afraid of, whether it's the traffic light system or development concessions, is that one is so happy with what one has got, that one does not have the will to see that things can be done better. When it comes to development concessions, it's been pretty clear that this was such a great system. But isn't it time for the Storting to take an overall assessment of whether this was so great, how much bureaucracy this generated, whether it was the best projects like water, etc. There is the type of assessment a wholesale message will provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e423	I fully agree with Mr Pollestad that in the case of development concessions, it should be evaluated. Now it's like trying to end all of the development concessions. It came in quite a lot more than you might have expected. For some of these, it has become demanding processes to complete, and from the Ministry's side, we are now putting even more effort into trying to finalize those that are still in the system. Then I agree with the representative Pollestad that we should evaluate whether this was the optimal way to put it up, even in view of future new development permits. As far as the name ‘traffic lights’ is concerned, as Minister of Fisheries, I think that is a good description, because one compares it to a system that we all know, the traffic lights: when it is green, one can go forward, when it is yellow, it is clear, and when it is red, one has to stop and wait. But that's the name you gave to try to describe how the mechanism works.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e432	On behalf of us red-green-colour-blind, I'm going to distance myself from the last description of this. But I think it's important that you start a comprehensive knowledge-based review of the farming industry. What has happened since the last time that Stortinget had an overall assessment? When it comes to producing a big message, we have heard – although the Minister for Fisheries has a great deal of work capacity – that will take some time before this is done. I promise I will stop, but my follow-up question is: does the Council of State think that during this big time there is a need for a big message, or at least the need to start a job with a big message, to get a comprehensive review of the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e441	In the case of groceries messages, they should be processed and notified in accordance with the procedures to be used for messages, so I do not want to comment here now. But what I can assure the representative Pollestad is that it is also in the interests of the Minister for Fisheries and Food to address relatively quickly issues related both to the traffic light system, to sustainable growth and to get the overview of the development permits, the procedures for their last announcement, and the criteria for allocation. Once we have dealt with those who are currently waiting, it is obvious that that evaluation process will be initiated as soon as possible in the ministry. So I just want to finish by stressing that I didn't let any political leaders when I tried to give my description of the traffic light system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e449	The President will say that the traffic lighting system in Stortinget is quite simple, because when the red light ceases to light, the speaking time is out – just for information. But it went perfectly well in this line chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e454	This time to the point. When it comes to the traffic light system, history is that it was developed by the red-green ones. We must not forget it – the President may say to Pollestad. This is essentially a very good system, if there were several indicators. But it just gets more embarrassing and embarrassing as the years go by, that there's only one indicator, and there's lice, that's going to define a bear force system. Everybody sees it. With all previous fisheries ministers, we have discussed this when the next indicators come. Per Sandberg said in his time that it was similar around the corner, with two indicators that were very developed. This was a work that was really coming a long way. So now most people are starting to get very impatient about getting more indicators in place. My hunch is that they're ready. Are they ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e461	No, there are no new indicators that are clear. But I tried to say that when you start evaluating the traffic light system and the allocation, with the experience and feedback you now have when you have the full impact of the traffic light system, which you had this time, you should see if there can be other indicators that can be evaluated. There are also a number of other factors that affect growth, such as the ratio to escape, the ratio to emissions, feed has also been the topic here today, but none of these are good enough per day to be used as direct indicators to regulate growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e466	We know from previous ministers that one has come a long way in developing new indicators, which you are very relevant to the proposals we have made in this matter. Pollution is part of it, animal welfare is – work has been done over many years. It is tempting to follow up with written questions to find out how far this work is coming, and what role the department has played in this. But can the Council of State, such as former Minister of Fisheries Per Sandberg, say that new indicators are similar around the corner?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e471	It's probably implicit in what I've been trying to explain what the process is going to be like, that there's not someone like that around the corner, but that it's going to be done. I am also interested as a government council in evaluating and evaluating both what is known today and other indicators that can be included in future assessments. As of today, they are not present. Therefore, I have recommended that no changes be made to the traffic lighting system as it is today. I also said that I am a technology optimist, and I know that the industry itself has specific interests in trying to develop new technologies and new ways to operate aquaculture that hopefully will meet the sustainability principle, which we are all equally concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e478	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e485	SV has submitted 20 individual proposals for a sustainable farming industry. I want to say a little bit about the background for them. It's a hugely important industry we're talking about here, but none of the other parties in the committee see any shadow pages at all. Joda, they definitely see the shadow sides, but what do they do in practice? They are not on any proposals – i.e. the opposition has been brought together to request a notification of deposit, and that is it. They push problems in front of them, we have to call it. Because oil and gas are so incredibly important to the country's economy, and because the farming industry is so incredibly important to the country's economy, we dare not ask any questions, do not require any conversions in line with what nature, climate and future require of us and of the industry itself. That's the point. And what is that? Isn't it right now, when two UN panels send us strong warnings about climate change and biodiversity loss, that we need to take these signals over us, that we need to take action? For the farming industry, it's about the fact that we've had almost unhindered growth so far. Ida, we've taken some geographic considerations, a few locational constraints, but there's huge emissions, there's huge fish escaped in huge numbers, and there's production centers, almost, for poison production to the environment. In addition, there are major animal welfare issues. I'm just going to pick up a couple of problems here. One is escaped salmon and the enormous challenge of animal welfare. By the end of December 2019, last year, it had escaped nearly 283,000 farmed salmon in Norway. This is the highest number since 2014. Genetic studies of 40,000 wild breeds from 225 rivers in Norway show that escaped farmed salmon are in the process of genetically interfering with the wild species. Only one third are provisionally free of observed genetic changes, while another third shows major genetic changes due to genetic interference of farmed salmon. It has major biological implications for behavior, etc. for the wild axis. Ruminant farmed salmon is ranked as one of the two main threats to wild salmon populations in both Norwegian and international risk assessments. The second is breeding salmonnus. If the hall is in doubt, Norway has a very special responsibility for the wild species in the world. One third of the global wild stocks live in Norwegian waters divided by 465 rivers. I would like to ask for a new post, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e500	The representative must have that, but first the next speaker, who is Geir Adelsten Iversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e505	I really didn't mean to say so much, but what I want to tell you about is that there are good solutions that give good fish welfare. It also provides lice-free and disease-free salmon. It's also at sea, so it doesn't have to be so hard to find a better setup if you want it. In Finnmark – which is part of Troms and Finnmark, but I relate to Finnmark – people are concerned that the farmed salmon should not destroy the possibilities of drifting with wild fish. Last month, I think it was, we had four cases of deviation, two escapes and two disease cases. It brings me to another point: control. Control is important. You've left a lot to the industry yourself, and I think you might have to look at how this works. I think the proposal from the Central Party and the Workers' Party is good, that you take a complete, comprehensive review of the industry to see what kind of opportunities you have to get on the coast. I also hope that such a review will give municipalities more revenue. As it has now been, it has been when it has been growing. You have to get more holistic. Many of these farming municipalities are called for. I'll end with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e516	Many of the SV's individual proposals are about better animal welfare in salmon farming. What is it that makes us treat swimming lives so differently than walking and running life on land? In the new maritime food barometer of the consulting company PwC, it appears that the industry has a loss of about 20 p.p. Other figures suggest that it is up to 30 pst., or about 300000 tonnes, which are units used by the fishing industry to relate to – 300000 tonnes. What is the reason why society, and the majority of the population, seem to accept this, close their eyes to that fact? What other industries or industries would accept a loss of 20-30 pst? The pig producers? The milk producers? Remember, we're talking about approx. 160,000 livestock that die every day. Think about that number! So we can just think of money, which many people have easily done. It's 16-20 billion. kr alone in loss. This shows the enormous economic frontline of the industry if they are able to deal with these problems. Despite that, it doesn't seem that the industry has managed to do anything about this. Then Stortinget had to take some grip. That's what many of our proposals add up to. It's kind of not enough that we insist on using these dead salmon for a good purpose. We use them for biogas partially. That's good, but we can't rely on a high mortality rate being good for the biogas industry. So to a chapter separately: it's the leaching methods – thermal leaching with the handling and heating of a cold water fish at several degrees to let go of the loss. A warm, intermittent animal is overwhelmingly overheated. Mortality is often the end, but at least we're talking about huge animal diseases. At the top of this, we use large-style cleansing fish, rooster biscuits and leopard fish. We outsource 50-60 million of them every year. Most of these die at work, during a season or during the life cycle of the mermaid. They come from completely different living conditions – several of them from the seaweed zone, if it's wild fish we're talking about, and then it's put into tight stumps of predatory fish – think about it! We should be glad that the industry has not experienced that an animation film is being made for children about the life of the lip fish. Because it's our own Nemo. I think that would have been a pretty heavy blow.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e529	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e547	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e554	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good work on the issue of stricter regulation of dog rearing. There is broad consensus across policy lines that unethical dog breeding must be brought to life and stricter regulation should be introduced. It is good that we have this on the agenda, and that is something that should be commended by Mr Bastholm. At the time of adoption of the Animal Welfare Act in 2009, it concluded that animals have a self-esteem regardless of their usefulness to people. This was a great victory for animal welfare in Norway, but respect for animals requires more than fine wording. Unfortunately, in Norway, examples of animals that live under unsustainable conditions or are bred in such a way that disease and health challenges are increased. Today, when we vote against the proposal, it is not because we disagree with what is said about unethical dog breeding and the so-called puppy factories. We are voting against this proposal because we believe it is not tight enough. We are voting it down because there is already work going on to tighten up the legislation on dog rearing. The work provides more stringent guidance for dog rearing than is currently proposed. The left has long worked to strengthen the preventive work of the Food Safety Authority. Good advice and risk-based prevention are important. Already in the summer of 2019, the Food Authority was commissioned to investigate and prepare a proposal for a regulation on dog breeding. The aim of the proposal is to clarify the responsibility of breed clubs and single breeders to select healthy dogs with good health for breeding, so as to avoid the continuation of hereditary suffering to the puppies. The Food Safety Authority has been asked to investigate and propose provisions for registration with the Food Safety Authority for breeders of a certain size. Such registration will enable the Food Safety Authority to exercise risk-based supervision and guidance. There is no doubt that the breeders of dogs will comply with the provisions of the Animal Welfare Act. The Animal Welfare Act states that animals have a self-value. It is confirmed that animals must be treated well and protected from unnecessary stresses and loads. It is confirmed that breeding shall promote characteristics that provide robust animals with good function and health. We know that this isn't necessarily the case for all the dog breeds. Many dogs today suffer from the consequences of irresponsible breeding — breeding that has only gone on to promote traits such as short snouts, which cause breathing difficulties, or standing eyes, that cause eye problems, because people think it is a fine move. We underline that anyone who chooses to have a dog also has a responsibility to reverse the development of breeding. We who buy dogs have a responsibility that the dogs have good health. If, as an individual, we continue to seek migration from the dogs that are harmful to the animals, there will always be incentives to cultivate these traits. Those who buy a dog also have a responsibility to assess the conditions. In 1997, the Animal Ethics Council concluded that a breeding ban is necessary if one is unable to reduce breeding of animals suffering from disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e571	We have many capable and committed dogs in Norway and many skilled breeders. It's an important part of our culture – both for use and for pleasure. But then, as the rapporteur has explained, there are also some parts of the breeding that are going on with some unprofessional and irresponsible attitudes, especially extreme breeding: breeding racial traits that result in heritable diseases and suffering. It's unacceptable. For the Labour Party, we believe that the initiative and the proposal are good, and that we need a proper review and better regulation of this. We have noticed the feedback from the Minister of Agriculture, which points out that there may be a more reasonable limit of two coals per year. That is why we have promoted the proposal, but with the slight adjustment that there will be certification for breeders with two or more pups per year. With that, we hope to contribute to the fact that even more dogs and even more breeders may still enjoy the important work of breeding and that animal welfare is strengthened. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e580	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has addressed the Workers' Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e585	Normally, I will claim that the government, and also very often the Minister of Agriculture, is on a tour. I'm not going to do that in this case, because here I think that the approach that the government has set up is very rational and sensible. I just want to make some comments about what's important to the industry. First of all, the starting point must be that most of those who breed dogs, and most of those who drive dogs, have an engagement, are happy in their animals and have good animal welfare. So this is going to be very spread, it's going to run small, and it's going to run all over the country. It's hard to control. This means that you have to think differently when it comes to dog rearing, rather than when it comes to other animal species that are farmed, where there are larger units and more co-location. So I think the approach to the government is reasonable, and I just want to warn that we from the Center Party are looking forward to the work that is going on in the future, whether it's with dog law or other things, to achieve the goal that we have in common, that's the best animal health and the best possible animal welfare, both for farmed animals and pets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e594	Today it's like raising and selling a dog is considered to be a hobby in Norway, not an industry, and anyone can actually start breeding without any knowledge or registration requirement, no matter what kind of breed you breed, or how many puppy coals you sell this year. And since one year ago, I raised the issue of the regulation of dog breeding in the Questionnaire, and also promoted this proposal that we are dealing with today, the Council of State has asked the Food Authority to design a regulation to register breeders who have more than two coals per year. I would like to thank you for that. It is a huge leap forward and a very big win for all dogs – of course – in Norway, but also for those who are happy in dogs and who are seriously breeding with dogs. I would also like to thank the Economic and Social Committee for its consideration of the matter and vote in favour of the minority proposals today. Although most animal owners and breeders want their animals the best, there are very many reasons why animals are not kept well and properly bred, and lack of knowledge is unfortunately often an important factor. Therefore, I believe that one important next step, after we have registered the breeders who run more coal this year, is to ensure basic knowledge – that is, some kind of certification, which I hope we can get back to the next round. There is a great demand for puppies today. At FINN.NO, sweet animals are available for sale, and unfortunately we know that the increased availability of animals has not led to increased knowledge of what the animals need, and of what is required of you as a pet owner, also legally, in order to ensure good animal welfare. The price for a puppy is often between 10 000 and 20 000 kroner, and as I said, the demand is high. And all of a sudden, unfortunately, there's also a huge opportunity to make large sums of money in dog rearing, and that's some reason why it's very good that we can now get it in regulated forms. In the summer of 2018 – and this was some of the background for me to take this up in Stortinget – the Animal Ethics Council warned of a growing problem with so-called puppy factories in Norway, i.e. very unprofessional breeders who get many coals, and who breed on extreme, painful features by appearance and, in addition, may also keep animals under poor conditions. The Animal Ethics Council also based this on the receipt of concerns from veterinarians, Food Authority and animal welfare organisations. It is important to understand that it is those who are not interested in caring for the animals who serve the most because it is unregulated, and it makes it more difficult to use the Animal Welfare Act for preventive work to prevent poor animal welfare and extreme breeding. I would like to conclude by saying that when we are now in the process of imposing new tasks and a new area of control on the Food Safety Authority, I am concerned that increased appropriations will be provided. So I would encourage the Council of State to include itself in the budget negotiations that the Food Authority also needs money to be able to follow up this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e607	Dog breeding and dog rearing have gained increased attention in recent years. This is largely due to the fact that there are some breeds that are exposed to health problems and that there are some unprofessional breeders. All animal husbandry shall be based on good animal welfare and animal health. I think that most breeders are happy in their animals and want fine, healthy puppies that progeny after their dogs. Breeders must pay attention to the health of the animal and must at least reflect the appearance and other racial characteristics of the animal. But with regard to the diseases and the problems we see in some breeds today, I believe that we need to get improvements in dog breeding, and not least in breeding. Last summer, therefore, the Food Safety Authority was commissioned to investigate and prepare proposals for a regulation on dog breeding. The aim is to investigate measures that can turn the crop in the right direction and prevent suffering from future puppy coal. I mean there are three things that are needed. Firstly, we should clarify the breeder's responsibility. I imagine that the requirement that all those who breed dogs, both breeding clubs and single breeders, should be obliged to assess properties that could cause health problems in the offspring. I was myself concerned about that. I have two dogs, and I was occupied with the pedigree and the disease image, just because I was concerned with the health issues. Secondly, we should demand that all racial clubs have their own breeding strategy, with follow-up, registration and documentation. Many race clubs have already done a lot here. Breeders who are not associated with a breeding club must also have a mating plan based on an assessment of the occurrence of hereditary disorders. And third, all breeders to a certain extent should have to register with the Food Authority, for example. those with two or more coals on average per year. This has been entrusted with the task of investigating and making a proposal for a regulation. Altogether, I believe that these measures will provide better counting and less bureaucracy than if we were to require the authorities to certify each breeder. Then we take care of animal welfare and animal health, which I know that the proposers are also very concerned about. There's a common goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e622	I want to address our suggestions. Then I ask Storting's well-being to make an adjustment to proposal No. 4, so that the new proposal is replaced by the following: ‘The government requests that all relevant related data on dogs, cats and rabbits from veterinary visits be recorded in a database, that the data benefit the animals in the breeding system and that the database be used by the Food Safety Authority in its supervision.’; – It has been sent to the dispatch office, but it was delivered after the deadline, but with the goodwill of Stortinget, it will be included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e632	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then mentioned the proposals he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e651	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity for a replacement of lines will be given with up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign out on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e660	From dog to mountain: now mountain farming is in place, and this is a good proposal to strengthen mountain farming and further develop the research station Løken in Valdres. Grass and grazing resources in our mountain regions and the further development of the great production we have in Norway – the highest quality of milk and meat – will be an important part of the overall food and agricultural policy for the years to come. The Committee shares the view of the proposers that agriculture in Norway needs good professional environments which can help to continue to develop variety materials adapted specifically to mountain areas. It is particularly relevant when the climate changes – we need plants, seeds and genetic material that are adapted to the changes that are taking place. We in the Business Committee stress that it is essential to improve self-sufficiency, strengthen the foundations of jobs throughout our country, preserve our cultural landscape and maintain our biodiversity through grazing by having food production in the mountain regions. The research station at Løken has contributed to an important understanding that agriculture and food production in Norway benefit from. In the future, we know that in addition to the choice of seed varieties, knowledge of carbon bonding in pastures, for example, will become an area that is important to understand better. That's why we need these kind of professional environments that can give us the understanding. The Committee took note of the initiative of Norway’s Well to establish a strong and coordinated resource centre for Norwegian mountain farming, based on the particular characteristics and advantages of mountain areas. To the view of the Labour Party: we think the proposal is good, and therefore we want to end up and vote in favour of the proposal in the document: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure the further development of the research station Løken i Valdres for research and development for mountain farming.’ We believe that this is in line with the overall policy we want for food production and agriculture in Norway. I address the proposal Workerpartiet has with the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e680	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e685	We need good professional environments now, perhaps more than ever, that can ensure that variety materials are developed specifically adapted to climate change in general, but also especially to mountain areas. The decision to drop Nibio's presence on the onion was made four years ago. Although the activity is now shut down, the Ministry has a good dialogue with Nibio on how to maintain R & D activity in particular mountain farming within the Institute. Research on this, as I said, is important. It's important for us as a society, so we can get a good and comprehensive understanding before making decisions, especially in climate and environment. We have now gained a knowledge base in the 2030 Climate Action on greenhouse gas emissions from non-quota sectors that we need to understand in the light of knowledge, such as knowledge of natural diversity and mountain farming. In this way, we will be able to make important and correct strategic decisions on how to cut greenhouse gas emissions. In the signals from the Council of State, we see in the Right that the department is now following up Nibio well in how to ensure continued good competence in mountain farming. In addition, like Sandtrøen, we note the initiative of others, such as the Well of Norway, to establish a strong and coordinated resource centre for Norwegian mountain farming, based on the particular characteristics and advantages of mountain areas. The initiators have pointed to a model of cooperation in which the onion is integrated with other destinations and institutions in the mountain region. The initiative is very good precisely because we experience a strong commitment and willingness to commit in the matter. We in the Right believe in public-private cooperation, and we are convinced that more private actors will find the project interesting and will thus commit to a variety of actors that can contribute to such a centre. We look forward to following the initiative-makers' ambitions to become a strategic resource centre for the development of mountain farming, and we are convinced that the onion will be an important resource for agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e696	Both in the discussion of the agricultural notification and in the current proposal for a representative, the Economic and Social Committee recognises the value of mountain and arctic agriculture. Agriculture in Norway needs a professional environment that can help to continue to develop plant varieties adapted to mountain areas and tough growth conditions. Then we have to take care of valuable knowledge with long-term research, especially in our climate change era. The Norwegian agricultural seed material is important in the conversion and development of Norwegian plant production on Norwegian resources, with objectives of increasing Norwegian food production and self-sufficiency. The size wants to further develop research environments and expand the field to involve the sustainability of agriculture, carbon bonds in food production, the use of land and recreation in mountain areas. The Stortinget should then support the proposals in this matter. The variety material and the research at the mountain station are and have been of importance for food production throughout the country. A large proportion of the meadow varieties used in seed mixtures throughout the country have been processed on the onion. The centre party wants to further develop the research station at Løken. Farming has also shown that this field is important for both farmers’ organisations and the country. NIBIO Department The onion has carried out important research and development work for the valley and mountain communities for over 100 years – for over 100 years we have recognised this need, and we have to take that history with us. The changing climate and society in a new era will lead to both new challenges and opportunities in agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food decided to continue the experimental areas at the NIBIO onion but to shut down the station as an independent research station. The presence of NIBIO at the Onion is important. The majority of the population is also concerned today with the follow-up of the decision to continue the experimental areas and the commitment to mountain farming in the future. Both the county and the municipality want to contribute to the establishment of a mountain centre. The mountain network, NIBIO, Graminor, NLR and the Valdres region are united behind the proposal. Now we hope the Minister of Agriculture sees the same opportunity and acknowledges the need for the Stortinget to see. This is of national interest, food security is a national responsibility. I think it is good to hear that the government parties today support the initiatives that are being taken. It is also important for me to remember how important the state's presence has been in the 100 years of existence of this research station. The centre party is involved in two minority proposals, in which we ask the government to ensure the further development of the research station Løken, and we ask the government to develop the market opportunities of mountain farming by exploiting grass, land use and grazing resources. I'm addressing proposal No. 2, which the center part with SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e719	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand then brought up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e724	The aim of the left is to give future generations the same freedom and opportunities that we ourselves experience. There is also the possibility of being able to live there. For some it is convenient to stay at Grünerløkka in Oslo and work as a consultant, for others it is excellent to live on a farm in Oppdal and operate farm there. We must ensure that both are still attractive in the future. A versatile nature and a well-managed cultural landscape are one of Norway’s most important brands. Robust mountain farming is also the basis of cultural landscapes, food production, outdoor tourism and the identity of a living mountain community. Agricultural activity across the country is one of the main means of ensuring safe food production, biodiversity and the long-term and sustainable management of our land. Here, mountain farming is important. Norway has a unique topography with fjords and mountains. We have a country where the natural conditions for agricultural production are very varied. Some areas are suitable for cereal production, some for fruit and berry cultivation and vegetables, while others are more important for active livestock farming, with livestock that can graze and keep the cultural landscape in check. The use of grass and grazing resources in mountain areas and their development are of great importance for overall food production in Norway. We have ambitious self-sufficiency targets in Norwegian agriculture, so we need good professional environments that can help us to continue to develop black materials in particularly adapted mountain areas, especially in view of climate change. The research station at Løken has contributed to an important understanding of agriculture and food production in Norway and its benefits. The importance of carbon bonding in pasture and the development and selection of seed varieties that are best suited to different climatic challenges are examples of two areas where it may be useful to gain even better knowledge of the time ahead. A practical and comprehensive understanding of food and agriculture issues is the basis for making wise choices for society as a whole in the future. Norway Vel's initiative to establish a resource centre for Norwegian mountain farming in Valdres is welcomed in the Left. We have great faith that the initiative can help to promote good food experiences and the best Norwegian nature has to offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e737	From an agricultural point of view, Norway is a grassland. Large parts of agricultural resources and production opportunities in our country are linked to grazing and grazing. Norwegian farmers have had to use the area available every year. Unlike many other countries, we have not only flat plains, but a lot of mountain and foreign terrain. The use of grass and grazing resources in mountain areas and the development of these resources are therefore an important part of the total food production in Norway. Mountain farming is also well placed to produce food with special characteristics and to deliver nature-based experiences. These are specific advantages and market opportunities that should be developed and exploited. Agriculture in Norway needs good professional environments that can help to maintain the development of variety material specifically adapted to mountain areas. This applies not least in view of climate change that is going to hit us with increasing force for many years to come. The seed material available to Norwegian agriculture is also important in the conversion and development of plant production on Norwegian soil and with Norwegian resources, with the aim of increasing Norwegian food production and self-sufficiency. It is also apparent from the letter from the Government Council of Bollestad that the Ministry has given leadership in the governance dialogue with NIBIO that knowledge development for mountain farming should be a high priority area during the coming period. It's also worth noting that the Council of State discloses that 85 pst. of the activity on Onion has been associated with varietal testing for Graminor AS and that 2020 is the last year of such testing following the agreement with Graminor. Graminators decide where they want to carry out their tests, and NIBIO has to decide on a professional basis where to use their resources. In other words, within their respective missions, both NIBIO and Graminor must have the freedom to dispose of their resources in line with their professional judgements. The Bioforsk Board adopted the closure in 2015. Even though you have all sorts of respect for the work that has been done on the Onion, that doesn't mean that we should override the professional assessments of NIBIO and Graminor. We have noted the initiative of Norway's Well to establish a strong and coordinated resource centre for Norwegian mountain farming, based on the particular characteristics and advantages of mountain areas. The initiators have pointed to a model of cooperation in which the onion farm is integrated with other destinations and institutions in the mountain region. The ambition of the initiators for the Centre to become a strategic resource centre for the development of mountain farming is exciting, and we will, of course, follow this initiative. An important factor will be whether the project is able to commit a variety of actors to such a centre and that private actors also find such a project interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e750	The government wants active and profitable agriculture all over the country. A viable mountain farming is important in order to achieve this objective. Mountain areas form a significant part of the area of Norway. These areas have special qualities and advantages that we need to take advantage of in order to promote value creation, jobs and good use of resources. Farming in higher struts is strongly linked to roughage-based productions. This promotes food production based on Norwegian feed resources. This is important both from a sustainability perspective and from a climate perspective. I believe that mountain farming is important. In the agricultural agreement last year, therefore, we doubled the funds for mountain farming over the agricultural development fund, precisely because we believe it is so important. In addition to both the volume and niche production of food, mountain areas make important social contributions in the fields of cultural landscapes, travel and recreation for the population. I have great faith that the resources of mountain farming will have increasing value in the future. If we are to succeed in creating competitive jobs in these areas, we need to pay great attention to knowledge and technology development. A survey carried out by the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy in 2018 shows that at least 16 institutions are involved in research and development aimed at precisely mountain farming. These represent a coordinated and multidisciplinary effort that best addresses the challenges and opportunities of mountain areas. Among the most important knowledge environments is the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, NIBIO. My department has given clear indications to NIBIO that knowledge development for mountain farming will be a priority area in the future. The ministry has decided to drop the onion as a NIBIO unit and work on it. I would like to stress that I am busy finding a good and forward-looking solution for the Onion Farm, and I look forward to dialogue with various actors on this. As mentioned earlier, I share the commitment of the proposers to mountain farming. I would therefore like to give priority to good dialogue with the research communities, so that the agricultural industry in the mountain regions gets the knowledge and plant varieties it needs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e764	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e769	Former Minister of Agriculture Sylvi Listhaug is himself out of prison. It may turn out to be a very good opportunity for mountain farming, because in recent years, politics has been in conflict with what we actually need in mountain farming. Food production in mountain areas has been said very well, but the question is whether we will in practice have a policy to support the production of food in our mountain areas. One specific point: former Minister of Agriculture Listhaug set the ceiling on milk quotas at 900 000 litres. It is a level that does not belong in Norway and has nothing to do with mountain farming. The concrete question is: will the current Minister of Agriculture pursue a policy that corrects the imbalances and supports mountain farming?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e774	I said in my post that we have prioritised mountain farming both in the last farm, in channelling, and in the way of using mountain farming – developed good roughage opportunities and production. In addition, to Green Week I had mountain farming with as an important piece to show off the unique goods produced on that trip. We believe it is an important part of Norwegian agriculture. I have a great deal of focus on this and will have it in the future – also in the negotiations I will have with agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e779	Unfortunately, here I heard an answer that suggests that the Progress Party will still have a lot of power over food policy. It's very bad. But on the optimistic and positive side, there has been a clear red-green package that draws a better price if there is a government change, by bringing up the production of safe top-quality food in Norway on the grass and grazing resources that we have in mountain areas. This is absolutely crucial, because it is what creates the very basis for us to have active mountain farming throughout our country. Now progress is in the wrong direction. The grain area goes down, and instead we get grass production on some food soils where we could have cereal and vegetable production. Then I have to ask a final question: is it now that the Minister of Agriculture of the Christian People's Party wants to free himself from the earlier adoption of the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e784	I understand that the representative needs to show his own party's policy, but if the representative had read the Granavolden platform, he would have really seen that the Christian People's Party has put its mark on agricultural policy. In fact, one has created a platform to support agriculture across the country – which preserves and uses all resources, that we should have a differentiated use, and that we should give priority to channelling – just to use resources properly. If the representative reads it, he understands that the Christian People's Party is engaged in, values, and will increase production in a way that is sustainable throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e789	Now it's mainly about these questions about how we're going to distribute the production, especially of milk. Then we're going to increase production on cereals, and then we're going to have a production based more on the natural resources that we have in our own country. That's why I think it's so exciting to hear if we have a potential opportunity in Stortingen to develop a policy now, or if this is a clear message to food-interested voters that there's only one thing going on, and there's a government shift in 2021. So far it seems to me that it's the last thing that's going on. Finally, I just want to ask a specific question, because we are discussing mountain farming: Setring is a very important and proud part of food production in the mountain regions. Can the Minister of Agriculture say anything about whether there are any specific measures that specifically strengthen set-aside and land-use, in the wider agricultural policy of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e796	I'm busy having a dialogue with agriculture based on the measures that have been taken, and I'm busy exploiting the resources also in set-aside. These measures will be discussed with agriculture. As the State Council, I have so much respect for that negotiating institute that I choose to take it with the agricultural organisations themselves. I also thought that the Workers' Party was concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e801	Onion research station, historically known among others. for Løken timotei, was established in 1918. The survived 30 years, the survived World War II, and it has survived until today. But now it's over. What the onion was supposed to do was a combination of variety development and cultivation techniques, that is, a crucial research, long-term research, linked to grass plants in demanding climatic areas. It is quite obvious that mountain farming needs to be given a greater place in the future to meet the preparedness objectives that Norway needs. It is in this situation that resources are given priority in such a way that the onion is to be closed. At the same time, the protein content in roughage shall be increased. My question is, how will the Council of State implement the increase in protein content without any research stations in the mountains?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e808	First, I want to tell the representative that I agree that the onion farm has had an important task in the years that have passed. I also agree that it has given much to Norwegian mountain farming and Norwegian agriculture in general. Then it's a complicated ownership structure. On the one hand, the houses are owned by the Ministry of Agriculture, while the land itself is owned by the OVF. Now that we've gone to the step of shutting down the onion research station, it's because we want to prioritize mountain research elsewhere. I said in my post that NIBIO has examined over 16 institutions that are just engaged in research and species development to ensure this. Graminor has a national responsibility for that too. I'll follow this closely with NIBIO, precisely because it's so important that we can develop this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e815	Graminor is a limited liability company and shall operate on a commercial basis whether the State is one of the owners. It's no good that there are 16 institutions doing this. It is much better that there are fewer institutions that have a long-term perspective. Anyone who has worked on these issues knows that it is the long-term research that provides the safe results. My question was related to protein. Governments are well aware that we are importing more and more protein in the form of soya from Brazil, not least for milk production, and that there is something we should remove from it. So we have to produce more protein in the Norwegian grass. Then it's essential that you have cultivation techniques and variety trials that make us achieve that goal. The largest areas of grass in Norway are marginal areas, where mountain farming is a very important part where we need to invest more. How, then, can it be appropriate to reduce this effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e822	It must be up to Graminor to decide where they want their field trials, but I am concerned that we should have field trials on just this. The same is true of NIBIO, and I've been visited on several occasions by NIBIO, who is researching protein development just to reduce the import of protein, as the representative quite rightly says. It must be both an objective in a climate perspective and a right perspective to use the resources we have on Norwegian soil to produce the proteins we need for our own use.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e830	Just a month ago, perhaps a little more, AgriAnalyse came up with a report on mountain farming — or on the use of seats, which is central to mountain farming. The hindrance they set up was that we see a very alarming development in which the small practices, which make up mountain farming, lose because of different types of political support schemes, etc. In connection with the extraction and phasing out of the Jarlsberg cheese, we also saw that this is something that will favor great use. Is the Council of State in agreement with the analysis that we need to distort agricultural policy quite radically if we are to save mountain farming and seats in the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e837	Last year, I signed an agricultural agreement with both the Farm and Small Farmers Team and the Norwegian Bond Team. They are, in the same way as the representative and myself, concerned with an agricultural industry all over the country. It's in the agreements we turn on the tools to take care of that agriculture. In the agricultural agreement last year, we started a change by turning on some of the support schemes, and I'm concerned that we're going to have an agriculture across the country, we're going to have little use. It also did so when we had a buying-out scheme for milk, we did it regionally just to ensure that no region would suffer more than any other. One took it down to keep the regions and allowances within it. That is why I have been concerned that we are going to have agriculture throughout the country, and we are going to make use of both the grazing resources and the sitting where possible and suitable for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e844	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e851	Preparedness is going to be more important, and more than us in the Center Party will now experience that it also applies to food. So we need to strengthen maritime supply, we need to strengthen protein production, we need to strengthen the way we operate agriculture in terms of the climate challenge. Here we are at the point: The onion is historically, for over a hundred years, responsible for the combination of variety development and cultivation techniques in mountain areas. They have been responsible for current crops in the mountain areas with a focus on meadow crops, monitoring the production base in the mountain areas, land-based grazing, environmental challenges and biodiversity in the steel areas. It's right in the blink of what we need -- right in the blink. Then we experience that the state is withdrawing from the onion labyrinth, separating processing and research and leaving the processing to Graminor AS. It's a historical misconception. The Norwegian model has been linked to a close relationship between research, development, advice and practical agriculture – a fantastic model that many other industries have envied. Here we had built up a system related to what went on research and development in grass production. It is said from the Right that one should have good public-private cooperation. Yeah, we're in the Center Party for that. However, we cannot expect the private company to operate differently than it should be commercially profitable, and the situation today is that it is not commercially profitable to operate in mountain and mountain farming – but it will be profitable in a few years’ time. It's just to look in the glass sphere -- look at what's the international uncertainty. Then we need this knowledge, and it's going to be a lot more expensive to get that knowledge when we've weakened the fantastically important research environments, people and areas that have run long-term research. This cannot be replaced by three- to four-year field trials. It's long-term research over tens of years that provides the necessary knowledge to know how to act under different climatic conditions, which are changing more and more brutally than we've seen before. The professional assessments carried out by NIBIO are within a narrower economic framework. It's within a tighter economic framework, and it's the framework that decides what NIBIO should do with professional recordings. So I'm going to appeal to the Council of State to review this again, make sure that we have a future research-based use of our production areas, whether it's land or pasture, and then we need such institutions. Institutions that have survived through a short period of time shall not be closed now, in economically good times.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e864	The proposal to shut down the research station on the Onion is not in line with the overarching agricultural policy objectives of the Storting. It is a decision that limits our ability to increase food production based on Norwegian resources and uses more of our resources to produce pure and safe food. When Stortinget dealt with the agricultural notification in spring 2017, the importance of mountain farming was also underlined. The then Progress Party Council had not found it worth mentioning this in its message, but a joint committee underlined the importance of continuing to invest in mountain farming. It wasn't my idea that this should be an instruction to reduce research activity associated with mountain farming. This case is a classic example of neutering and the new logic that political plurality stands for. One takes the perspective of the bureaucrat, one doesn't take the perspective of the food producer, in fact. When you talk about developing, it often means that you need to shut down. When one – as the Right’s representative did in the past – talks about the need for dialogue, it often means talking to them about something different, that is, those who are directly involved in the closure. This is a way to develop agriculture that will take things in the wrong direction. I am surprised that the Minister of Agriculture did not conduct a renewed, independent assessment of this matter, but blindly adopts the Legislature Party policy that is inherited. It's good that you can talk about the Granavolden platform and what it says. I think it's special that a person clings to the degrees of a platform created by a plural government that's now a minority government, and the last party says that one doesn't feel any particular loyalty to. But what at least cannot be justified is that the Granavolden platform, for which the Progress Party does not take responsibility, forces today's government to act on a policy that the Progress Party is launching when they are in government. My request to the government council is: Do a new assessment, and do what needs to be done to actually further develop mountain farming, not build it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e877	At a time of major climate change, we need to combat climate change both by releasing smaller greenhouse gases and not least by ensuring that more greenhouse gases are linked to natural processes. At the same time, we need to adapt to a day-to-day climate change that is about to happen. It must be done through research and development. One of the fields affected by climate change and its control is the way we produce food. In Norway there are 3 pst. of the land area of edible soil, of which 3 pst. is two thirds grass and pasturage. This is why Norway has a long tradition of exploiting the mountains and land resources. Food production has been adapted to the country’s resource base. Mountain farming has therefore been a support for both food supply and housing patterns. It is gratifying to hear all the positive words that are said politically from the pulpit today, which is also reflected in the remarks, but it is a pity that it is not followed up with commitments. Agriculture in Norway needs more than ever professional environments that can contribute to the continued development of variety material specifically adapted to our mountain areas, and not least to preserve valuable knowledge through research that has been going on for a long time. European studies show that grassland stores three to four times more carbon than the forest. Potentially, carbon can be stored equivalent to one third of annual emissions from domestic animals, and it has become a very popular target in the climate debate. This isn't something that the Center Party has invented. This is research-based material, and you can read about it in the report Beitemarka – an unknown carbon stock, from AgriAnalyse. In that case, mountain farming and further investment in a mountain centre are crucial to the emergence of this knowledge. Coordination of research is also important to further develop plant production based on climatic conditions other than those to which we have so far been accustomed. Climate change will lead to new challenges and opportunities in agriculture, but it is important that adapted research and development work is carried out specifically towards mountain farming in the future. The onion has proved to be a well-suited place to carry out that kind of research and should be a spearhead further in that work, but also combined with the further development of food with the special nature-based experience, knowledge combined with agriculture and other activities that can lead to nutrient development in our mountain regions. Unfortunately, the debate today shows that the majority of population does not seem to follow up beautiful words with concrete measures, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e894	SV supports the whole-hearted proposal and will of course vote for it when we come to voting. The current situation of mountain farming is very demanding, especially for those parts of mountain farming where there are small operators with small herds. Just to illustrate this: in 2034, that is, in 14 years' time, the last deadline for going from booths to lay-offs. A survey was carried out among those operating seats, who showed that those operating seats have substantially smaller crews. We also see this as a continuous phenomenon for mountain farming – one with consistently smaller herds, and fewer have turned to depopulation. That means that one has to take some kind of investment decision before 2034 that's going to be pretty big. Then a ‘go large’ has to be converted into a major use, thus making use of less of what characterises mountain farming or cutting it down. Since the economy of small crews is much more challenging, because we've changed the system – if you have a lot, you'll get more – this can be a very decisive difference for the use of Norwegian mountains and seats. The proposal here is limited to the research station, but addresses many of the major challenges facing us as a nation when it comes to agriculture. If we're going to meet the time we're in now, where earth around the world becomes weak, where global food production is weak, we need to move towards a greater degree of self-sufficiency. We have to use the land resources we have in this country, even the very marginal soil resources that are poor, where there is a short growing season, where there are long winters – we really have to use the whole country, we have to use the land. Then it's clear that in such a perspective, mountain farming becomes very important. Now we can make decisions that can have an effect on time. The long-term decisions are very clear for everything that has to do with agriculture. The proposal is supported, and then we will have the major discussions on agricultural policy on a later occasion, where the content of the matter is greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e905	I think there have been very many good contributions to the debate so far, both from the position and from the opposition. The broad exposure to seeds, plants, coarse fodder production and mountain farming is almost too much to be consumed by a simple mountain-built girl named Beito. I want to give the Minister of Agriculture a little brilliance, because last year's agricultural settlement was the first under the government of Solberg with average wage growth for the farmer. When the Christian People's Party shows penetration there, I hope they will also be able to ensure that the light is not switched off at the research station on the Onion. Governments point to the property challenges of the Onion, but we now have a momentum: The Storting today has this case about the Onion, in March a case about the Information Society's fund, and during May the government is going to negotiate the agricultural settlement before it comes to the Stortinget. The Minister of Agriculture is now sitting in very many ways with the key to the Onion – if she acts now. These days, the political signals are aimed at increasing green production, and the potential for the mountains with pasture and smelting. Norway Vel has this project until the summer. The transfer of the farm may be carried out free of charge in order to ensure further activity and, in the case of any divisional matter with the municipality, it is necessary to know that the property can be collected and the land driven in line with the intentions. Realisation of the mountain centre requires operating aid of around 5 million. kr annually. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about what has happened to the means of mountain farming and arctic agriculture in agriculture, and whether it can in the long run be such that mountain centres can receive this kind of subsidy in the future. I also think it has been a demeanor for the debate that we internationally recognise aid for seed and plant production for food production in developing countries, and in addition, we have seed vaulted on Svalbard, which is crucial to securing the plant material and much of the knowledge we are sitting on, and the values of our plants for the future. I wish we had at least the same level of ambition for plant production and its further development within our own borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e916	I want to start by saying that the decision to close the onion was made in 2015, so when it is referred to the debate on the agricultural notification and the comments from 2017, one already knew about the closure, because it was a decision from 2015. The whole point, and what I've been clear to NIBIO, is that decommissioning on the onion should not go beyond the knowledge development of mountain farming, and it should be a priority area also in the future. I am concerned that the whole intention of starting and establishing NIBIO in its time was that there should be more resources for knowledge and innovation and less for operation and maintenance. When we know that the premises on the onion include 20 buildings, while the institute has for a long time only needed a few of them, it has been important for me to signal to the institute that it will further develop experimental areas for mountain farming, precisely because it is so important in the future. We're going to keep that in focus all the way. Then I got a question about later use and resources etc. After what I've learned so far, and after what I've been told about, a resource center at the idea stage is for the time being. It's not, as far as I know, formed a formal organ yet. I'm willing to be with and discuss the idea if it comes, but initially I'm most concerned with finding a solution for construction and land so that it becomes a forward-looking unit. As for what will happen, I am in favour of dialogue with different actors, because I am committed to being able to use this area and contribute in a good way also in mountain farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e925	There will always be advice on buildings. They're either being taken care of, or they're being torn. There are probably many buildings here that can be used for different purposes. The situation has changed quite a bit from 2015 to today. People find that preparedness and security for food and food in their neighbourhoods are becoming more important. What the Council of State says about knowledge and innovation is nothing new. That's what's been the tradition of the onion. What's the problem for the government is that it's based on a platform that says that either we have e.g. dried in Norway or not, the degree of maritime supply is the same and the degree of maritime supply does not depend on plant production in Norway. I see the Council of State shaking its head, but it says explicitly in the message that the government has submitted, that either one imports plants into Norway or produces the plants seawater, the degree of maritime supply is the same. That's probably not true. In an actual situation, it will be revealed as a false. This is very central in this discussion, for the Norwegian degree of maritime supply and its improvement is entirely dependent on Norway as a grassland and is completely dependent on both volume and quality and the grassland's ability to bind carbon in the soil. There needs to be a completely different effort on the grass side and on mountain farming in Norway, because that is where the potential lies. These are marginal areas based on climatic conditions, but it is absolutely vital, by volume, that we have vigilance in those areas. This is going to be incredibly important. We have to get up the grass production, and we have to get up the protein content of the grass. We have to come up with a modern cultivation technique, and then you can look at Switzerland in terms of cultivation techniques and quality. And we need to get a discussion about how our meadows, whether it's inland beds or outland pastures, bind carbon in the earth. Here we have clear, scientific contexts that need to be clearer rather than both farmers and opinion, because we are out and out of our way in knowledge of these areas. For someone who has its base in this industry, it's said a lot strange. That's why it's sad that the council doesn't say, well, this is done before, but now there's a new situation, now there's got to be a stake in mountain farming, because there's incredible opportunities. There we have a diversity that can be absolutely crucial to how the mountains and people living there present themselves to tourism and other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e940	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e946	Now the debate is about to land. Find a solution for ‘building and land’ for future activity, said the Council of State. I fully agree with that, and I think that is what the Minister for Agriculture would like to share with the initiators of the onion. That's why it was a real cold shower for several when the government in the revised national budget last year put in funds for sale on the onion. I think it is very important that the dialogue is in place before the government does something that is hasty, and that weakens the chances of a bet on a mountain centre. It is this initiative, which is now well under way locally, that needs to be taken care of. The Council of State questions the organisation of this Centre. Here the municipality has said that they will be an active actor, the county will also be involved. It could be either a municipal owned AS or with several. The question here is the chicken or egg, so I hope that the Council of State is actively involved. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e953	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e970	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e979	There is only one type of animal husbandry that is acceptable, and it is good animal husbandry. Animal welfare shall be good overall for animals, whether for food production or for other animals for use and hobbies. The Committee has worked well on the matter and stresses that animal husbandry is fundamentally positive for people and for our society. According to the Animal Welfare Act, animals also have a self-esteem, regardless of the benefits they have for us humans. Animals must be treated well and protected against unnecessary stresses and loads. Food production with animals is an essential part of our culture and necessary for us to be able to use natural resources throughout our country to produce safe and sufficient food for people in Norway. The Committee stresses that there is an important fundamental distinction between best animal husbandry policies and those intended to minimise animal husbandry in food production. The Committee will collectively facilitate optimal animal husbandry. Good animal welfare, good animal health and low level of medical use in food production are also crucial for public health. Therefore, ensuring good animal welfare is a common interest for people in general, for our safety, for our health and for people who have food production as work in Norway, and thus can sell products that are better than alternatives we can get when we import. In the proposal for a representative, the Danish Food Authority has a central role to play. The Committee considers that, inter alia: the unannounced supervision of food as one of several instruments that can contribute to improving animal welfare. The majority of the Committee also points out that the policy and legislation must precisely be well animal welfare as the clear standard for all animal husbandry, and points out that, like other offences, animal welfare offences are to be prosecuted. With regard to the Workers' Party's proposal and remark: the Food Authority has scarce resources. We've pointed that out before. Then I'm just saying in the end that I'm dealing with the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1000	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1005	Animals have a intrinsic value regardless of their useful value and shall be treated well. Food production with animals is and will continue to be part of our culture. Fortunately, we are known in Norway for having a high level of animal welfare, and antibiotic use is low. The regular pig and cow are well in Norwegian poultry. An important management and control body to ensure good animal welfare and safe food is the Food Authority. During 2019 we received in the Right, probably together with several other staging representatives, more concerns about critical management practices in the Food Authority. It's on the loose. It's also the case that such conditions that emerged in the Focus Episode are devastating to an entire industry that is working hard around the clock to provide its animals with good care. Many experienced increased suspicion after the program. So we have to be careful so that we don't be anxious to ensure the animals create a distrust culture that adds to the burden for those who are serious and real. That being said, those who do not take care of their animals must experience a cash and quick handling from the authorities. The right of the government has been very concerned with ensuring animal rights and has been a driver for the establishment of animal police, which is established in five police districts. We have with it provided a good system to detect, investigate and prosecute crime against animals, for that is what this is about. It's crime against animals. We have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at once. Unannounced supervision is important for the detection of offences, but prevention of incidents through guidance and dialogue is also very important. This is a balance. For the purposes of supervision during transport to slaughterhouses, information on the supervision of transport and slaughterhouses is being incorporated into the reports made to the public and to the ministry on the supervision of animal welfare. Finally, we also had a good debate in connection with the Margunn Ebbesen interpellation on 6 February. This debate revealed how the Council of State and the Ministry will follow up the review of the Food Authority. Right now I think we should continue to call the Food Authority. The time for renaming is not now. Now the Food Authority needs to focus on other parts of the business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1022	The debate on animal welfare is important, and especially today, when there is a growing awareness of – and direct knowledge of – food production and the way animals are kept. Then it's quick to go wild. I feel that several of the discussions about animal welfare have as their starting point how we, as human beings, would have felt about us being animals, not what is best for the animals. It is also important to go to the law and see what is the starting point: to prevent animals from being subjected to unnecessary stresses and strains. I can't do that, but when the representative mentions salmon farming – rightly, in part – about his commitment to fishing welfare, it is clear that we must distinguish between animals and salmon and animals. A do-it-yourself thing when you're fishing on salmon that you wouldn't like to do with any animal that has four legs and moves around. So what's unnecessary stress and stress is different from species to species. The centre party has previously been to rename food and animal supervision. I'm wondering if there might be an error in the setting, because there's a note that this is not the time to do it. There is also a comment that the Center Party now has, because we have chosen in the situation in which the Food Authority is not going into this. I would also like to make a comment on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and SV, where one is busy not notifying unannounced supervisors in advance. This is about the farmer getting a few minutes to go around, possibly coming home. There is no time to turn poor animal welfare into good animal welfare. Now the Storting will adopt something like that, at a time when many farmers tell them that they experience it as threatening and being saved when the Food Authority suddenly stands on the door. I think it's an advantage that the Food Safety Authority informs me that they're on the way, and that there's as much untimely supervision for the reason as a mere sudden banker on. Here I think it's very important, given the trust needed between the Food and Farmers, that a person performs properly, and therefore I just want to point out that it seems to me that this is a particularly bad proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1035	For those who are concerned about animals being well, whether they are free or in the care of humans, it is sad to note that there are so many violations of the Animal Welfare Act in Norway, and not least that it is repeatedly revealed. Every time extensive revelations of violence against animals, terrible environments, or simply animal harassment reaches the media, it is often said from the industry that these are exceptions. That's not how Norwegian animal husbandry is, it's said. Most people are happy in their animals and treat and treat them well, it is said. The KPMG report underlines the impression that the Food Safety Authority is unable to fulfil its social role and confirms that the systems and procedures of the Food Safety Authority are a crucial cause of the situation, together with the lack of resources. The secrets of the pig industry were revealed by the NRK Focus documenter who shocked Norway. Norun Haugen had worked systematically undercover for several years, as it is called, to document animal abuse and gross violations of the Animal Welfare Act. In June 2019, the Food Safety Authority stated that their supervision does not show any marked improvement in the animal welfare of pigs. The National Audit Office reported as late as last autumn how repeated serious violations of animal welfare have not been halted, because the Food Authority spends too long on imposing an activity ban on animal husbandry in the event of serious violations of the Animal Welfare Act. Food surveillance simply does not have a sufficiently progressive use. In serious cases, the animals suffer on average for seven years from the first decision of the Food Safety Authority until the animal husbandry has been wound up. This doesn't really matter. That's not true. Seven years. It is therefore difficult to see that the lack of animal welfare should not be regarded as a systemic problem rather than as exceptional cases. I regret to say, had to see and have to register, because I am a farm friend. But then there's this with the huge efficiency pressure on the manufacturers. They must provide consumers with the cheapest food possible, and at the same time we know that consumers in general want the food they eat to come from animals that have had it well. This is a never so small cross of thought. In the case of pigs, for which the Focus documenter is concerned, they should have greater space, fewer pigs per bin, better environment for the bins, more similar to the natural environment, and better access to outdoor areas should be provided. Both the Food Safety Authority and the pig industry have acknowledged that over-the-counter tailbiting in piglets and thoracic ulcers are serious animal welfare problems. The living environment is presented as a major cause. I will come back to several of the concrete proposals in a later article. I'm taking all the suggestions to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1058	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1063	The left has repeatedly shown that we take animal welfare seriously. We're basically concerned that animals are going to be fine. As many people here have said, animals have their own self-esteem. Animal welfare needs to be given a higher priority today. All animals must be guaranteed freedom from pain, injury and disease. We who saw the report that the previous speaker referred to, the report by Norun Haugen on pig farming, was shocked. And not only that -- it was really bad to look at, because it shouldn't be like that. If there is something for which the Left has worked for a long time, it is in order that the Food Authority should also have a preventive piece, with guidance. Good advice and work on risk-based prevention are important, and we agree that the management of animal welfare needs to be improved. Reference is also made to the reports of the Riksrevisionen and KPMG from the autumn of 2019, where the findings were missing. Animal husbandry is very positive. It's positive for people and society. Among other things, pets mourn: for scattered settlement throughout the country, the maintenance of our cultural landscape, which we have so dearly loved, and active agriculture throughout the country, which is one of the main instruments for safe food production, biodiversity and the long-term and sustainable management of our land. Domestic animals are also good for public health. Agricultural animals are important as grazing animals for the preservation of cultural landscapes and as a source of sustainable fertilisers. Preventing stress, fear, injury and pain in animals shall be the overriding consideration we shall take. There is no doubt that we believe that the supervisory authorities should also give higher priority to animal welfare than they do today. The left is basically positive to change the name of the Food Authority. We do not, however, vote in favour of the proposal, because we believe that it is the wrong use of the resources at present. Changing names is costly, and we believe that the funds should be used more to improve animal welfare. In addition, a change of name will result in a lot more work and the need for changes in the law. We can make better use of the resources. That is why we do not support the SV's proposals on this. We also do not support the SV's proposal that the state is best suited to carry out animal welfare markings. We are absolutely sure that animal welfare labelling will have greater credit if it comes from an independent operator than from the state or industry. That's why we need to work continuously for a better animal welfare in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1078	The entire legitimacy of animal husbandry rests on the ethically sound treatment of the animals. This is also reflected in the Animal Welfare Act, which says that animals have a self-esteem regardless of their usefulness to humans. Animals must therefore be treated well and protected from unnecessary stresses and loads. Farming has long and good traditions in Norway. Domestic animals have contributed to our country being inhabited as it is. As a country where a lot of agriculture is based on grass, we have been dependent on animals that transform grass into human food. Many communities and regions are still alive because people have domestic animals. Food production with animal husbandry is part of our culture, and it is absolutely necessary for us to be able to use natural resources across the country to produce enough and safe Norwegian food. It is vital that animal welfare is the best possible and that animals live good lives. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, there is an important fundamental distinction between policies that ensure optimal animal husbandry and policies to minimise animal husbandry in food production. We can immediately establish that animal welfare is and becomes important for Norwegian food production. Good animal health and animal welfare were also at the heart of the processing of the agricultural notification, which was raised as points under the objectives of food safety and preparedness and sustainable agriculture. During this examination, the Committee stressed that good animal welfare is essential for all animal husbandry. I think we were all shocked by what was revealed in the documentary on the secrets of the pig industry, and these were clear examples of how we shouldn't be. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Agriculture and Food reacted as resolutely as she did. Several meetings have been held with industry and a number of measures have been taken to improve animal welfare. One of these measures is the regulation of the animal welfare programme. The debate also highlighted how the State Council will follow up the KPMG review report and ensure that the supervisory practices of the Food Authority are improved rapidly. This is important, and we believe the Council of State has handled the situation well. We therefore believe that it would be wrong to vote in favour of some of the proposals in the draft representative when the government is working on the follow-up to the review report. Even with the examples that have emerged, the general rule in Norway is that animal welfare is good and that we have good farmers who treat animals well. This is also something we must preserve and take care of for the future. An animal husbandry that has more qualities and that gives more value to society than what we find in a number of other countries will be positive to ensure the digestion of Norwegian food in the future. Good animal welfare and low-medical animal health also provide safety for people, giving a competitive advantage to Norwegian food production. Therefore, ensuring good animal welfare is of common interest to people in general and to people who have food production as work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1100	Food production and animal husbandry are part of our culture and essential for us to use the resource base throughout the country to produce enough and safe food. I fully agree with the Committee that good animal welfare in Norwegian livestock production is important. Animals in Norway shall be in good health. Good animal welfare and healthy livestock are also important for the profitability of the farmer. However, animal husbandry and animal welfare will always be a compromise between considerations such as value added, time use, economy and resource use. The requirements for animal welfare in Norway shall be strict and shall take up new knowledge. But they cannot be so strict compared to other countries that we cannot have livestock farming in Norwegian agriculture. Several decades of research and development have given us a knowledge-based regulatory framework – one of the most stringent in the world. Norwegian livestock have a very good health status, and very little antibiotics are used in production. Infectious animal diseases involving major disorders have been largely eradicated or prevented in Norway. These are fundamental prerequisites for good animal welfare. In the international context, we must therefore be able to establish that this is a good basis for good animal welfare in our country. Nevertheless, there are challenges in some productions and in some animal husbandry, as we have unfortunately seen in recent years, and as we have seen in particular in the production of piglets. When problems are revealed, I see it as a matter of course that the responsible meet to find the best solutions together. The authorities have and will continue to have close contact with the industry on measures to improve conditions — especially in pig production. We have to see that the measures have a lasting effect. The intention of the draft representative is good. We all want to work for the best possible animal welfare in the livestock sector in our country. But rather than introduce new reporting and documentation requirements and labelling schemes, I will work to improve animal welfare in other ways. A good regulatory framework, good interaction with industry and enhanced quality of supervision at the Food Authority are important keywords here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1118	A central part of this proposal and this debate are about the ability of the Food Safety Authority to exercise their professional responsibilities. Then, of course, it matters how much resources they have. Especially in recent years, the Food Authority has had to handle quite a number of major and new tasks. They have been involved in the treatment of pancreatic disease for cervids, we want them to be better able to assist the breeding industry, and this summer the Food Authority also received additional work on the dog disease. On top of this, there has been cheese-happiness – a flat cut – that the whole state is going to take. In this situation, how are we going to secure enough resources for the Food Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1125	When it is necessary to give priority to many and large tasks, such as the Food Safety Authority, it is important to be able to set requirements for efficiency and rapid achievement. New tasks are demanding in themselves. I want to quote the new CEO. She has given a wise answer to this, for she has said that no matter what tasks and resources they have, the quality of what the Food Authority does should be good. That's the word of the new director. I'm busy with the Food Authority and resources, but I want to deal with it through the usual budgetary processes. Therefore, I cannot comment directly in Stortinget today. However, I am concerned about both the tasks and the achievement of the goal of the Food Authority and that they should have available resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1134	In the examination of the 2017 Agriculture Communication, the Business Committee addressed one of the very specific problems that are part of this debate, especially in pig production. A joint committee, i.e. representatives of all parties, pointed out that the Committee met the government’s further work on new methods and alternatives to castration of male pigs. Can the Minister of Agriculture explain how the government has followed up this in the further work on the agricultural notification and its implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1141	I cannot go into questions relating to this one matter, but I have been concerned about the issue of pigmeat production and various aspects of it. We've had all the organisations and all the floors that work closely on the pig industry, as well as the pig industry itself, to ensure a better animal welfare program. What has come to light, including: through Focus, is reprehensible, and we had to address many points, both the training, the quality and what is being done in transport and in slaughterhouses. One must be able to get to the whole chain and get the individual farmer to see how important it is to participate in the animal welfare programme and take the responsibility for good animal welfare. We see that the attendance and implementation are getting better and better for the pig industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1146	On a proposal from Stortinget, a review of the Food Safety Authority was carried out which resulted in a report from KPMG. This report has been the subject of an interpellation in the United Kingdom — that is good — but it is also natural that the Grand Duchy should both be presented in the report and get the Council of State’s assessment of them at some point. Taking up a theme from a position game in an interview is not informing the Size, and it does not allow the Size to get thoroughly involved. My question is: What time can we expect a feedback about the KPMG report, and in particular, what plans does the government have to follow up on its findings?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1153	My starting point has been not to hold back any information on the report or on the basis of what has been done by the Council of State in view of its follow-up, nor on the basis of what is the basis of the new director of the Food Authority's follow-up. I have responded to both interviews and questions in this matter. I have no reason to hold anything back. I sincerely hope that the representatives of the Business Committee will both read the report carefully and bring with them all the measures – which were also referred to in the interview – that have been done precisely because I believe this is so important to us as a community. It's important for us to have transparency, it's important for us to achieve the goals, it's important for us to have confidence in the Food Authority, and it's important for us that those who use and need the Food Authority also have confidence in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1158	I will then invite the Council of State, either in the revised budget or in another context, to give feedback to the Stortinget, so that we can get a thorough committee reading on this and conclude that audit round. My question now is that by 2020 there are quotas for imports of 45 tonnes of meat into Norway that can be meat from animals that have been killed in the worst possible way, with the throat cut, without the use of stunning. This is religiously motivated slaughter. In Norway, there are strict rules, but they have been opened for imports from countries that do not practice these rules. Then my question is: Can the Council of State, from an animal welfare perspective, accept that we in Norway have given quotas for imports of 45 tonnes of meat from animals that have been slaughtered using what I want to say is active animal abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1167	The question raised by the representative is a very difficult one. On the one hand, one must take into account the freedom of belief, which is a quite fundamental right of the individual. For some religions, freedom of faith is also linked to how the meat is prepared and how the animal was slaughtered. We've opened this up in the name of freedom of faith, but that doesn't mean we've opened up that kind of slaughter in our own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1172	I followed the article to the Council of State, and she rejected the suggestions that came from SV, because she does not want new tools, but will improve those that we have, as I understood it, and do it in ways that are different from those that have been proposed. The whole point of the proposals we have made is to improve the methods we already have today. The detailed treatment given to the Swedish Food Safety Authority by the Riksrevisionen and the Focus documenter shows and reveals that the supervisory methodology is very inadequate. The proposals cover all parts of it, which were also answered by the Council of State in a previous question in Question Time. It is about how to proceed in the event of unadulterated supervision, how to ensure animal welfare in transport, in slaughterhouses, in poultry, etc. That's exactly what the Council of State is after — improving the systems. Can any of the proposed measures be applicable to the State Council later?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1184	Some of the proposals that lie here are proposals that we, in dialogue with the Food Authority, actually implement today. In the case of a name change for the Food Authority, I am more concerned with what tasks the Food Authority should have than the name it should have. I know that the representative Knag Fylkesnes was quite critical to change the name of the NSB in his time, to Vy – it cost a lot of money. So does this. That is why I choose to spend the money on animal welfare and supervision rather than on naming right now. I'm concerned if we're going to make a change, we have to bring the whole chain. What the Food Safety Authority is doing now is to have a review to make sure that a person has equal oversight, equal ways to do so, that a person interprets the legislation in a uniform manner, so that one has a certainty that the experience is equal and the interpretation is equal throughout the country, and that the requirements for individual farmers are the same across the country. I am also concerned that the Food Safety Authority should have good procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1193	This concerns the relationship between alert and unannounced supervision. It's pretty essential to distinguish between these two. The aim of the Food Safety Authority is that the maximum number of animal husbandry inspections should be unannounced. It's a statement that tells us that, logically enough, they reveal most of the way. So it turns out that the reality is that the number of unannounced inspections of farmed animals has fallen from 2018 to 2019. Does the Minister of Agriculture think it is right that there is a decrease in the number of unannounced pig holding supervision when serious animal welfare offences have been detected over several years? Does that not indicate that we need to actually put in more effort with unannounced supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1202	I am concerned that there is good access to good oversight, that supervision creates confidence between supervision and those that are supervised, and that there is quality in those that take care of it. I am concerned that we are going to discover unworthy conditions and inappropriate ways of operating animal husbandry. Food surveillance must at all times assess the best way to monitor the quality and to identify the deviations. What's important to me is to get the most possible deviations in the use of supervision, more than the number of supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1209	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1216	I thought the discussion about renames is illustrative for this matter. – Only to take the run first: 280 million. The cost of switching from NSB to Vy. If one had been $280 million. kr clear, as indicated by the Council of State, could rather spend money on animal welfare than on name-change. If it's actually the case that one has extra money in that order of spending on animal welfare, we're quite a few. So I think it's a good priority. But that's not the case. It's not that one has such an option situation that one can use the large amounts of animal welfare. It's not like a big bet on the Food Authority. It has not happened. The different cuts that happen over a low shoe in all parts of the bureaucracy and in the welfare of society today, with the extra bet that comes up on it, are not repeated. There is actually no active initiative on the Food Authority. The backtrace here is that the Food Authority has been revealed in a very serious way, first through the Focus documenter on the pig industry and then through the National Audit Office's review. The national audit review was very serious in that he showed that it took seven years before final decisions in the most serious cases. It shows that you have no methods, system, or ability to actually do the job. The Food Safety Authority admitted that they were out, but were unable to detect the conditions identified by the Focus Documenter. So it's obvious that the Food Authority has neither a system, nor a tool, nor a method of discovering very serious things. The serious things they discover take an infinite amount of time before they conclude. Here we are facing a very serious matter. We've heard about several things here in the hall where supervision and their methodology have been strongly criticised by the Riksaudition, but we've rarely seen as much criticism as the Food Authority here has. That is the background to our proposals, to improvements in all aspects of methodology, which are, in fact, the points of the review carried out by the Ministry and the Food Authority itself, with external scrutiny, etc. Then the point must be to figure out these things. I do not understand why one should flirt with the proposals from SV when this is actually the job we are facing. We record that there are many parties that do not want to address this problem, but refer to other processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1229	SV is convinced that more and more consumers are becoming more and more aware of what they eat, and not least they want to know about the animals from which they eat the meat, have had a good life. Then we simply have to give consumers the opportunity to choose from the surplus disk they choose from. SV believes that a state label scheme for animal welfare would therefore be appropriate. Of course, we recognize the pioneering work done by the Animal Protection Alliance in this field with the animal protection mark. It is open to all actors. The label is now 15 months old after start-up, maybe 16 months, and it's used on about 30 different products from 12 different farms. That's good. Nevertheless, a government scheme could increase its scope and thus contribute more rapidly to a general raising of animal welfare. It is necessary to place on the market and have criteria accepted by animal welfare organisations and by the veterinary environment, which have particular confidence among producers, sales operators and conscious consumers. The SV cannot understand that the concerns of the majority of the Committee and the Minister of Agriculture that a labelling scheme would mean that a person accepts that animal welfare is generally poor. A labelling scheme for organic food means, for example: not that other food is bad. Several countries have introduced labelling schemes without, for that reason, appearing to have accepted a condition where animal husbandry is generally poor. There's no contradiction between a general raising of animal welfare and a premiere of those who want to move on. I would therefore like to address the Minister's point with a proposal to raise the minimum standard, which has some negative aspects. It seems that the debate here today largely leads to the rejection of all the SV's proposals. So most things go on like before. It's sad to see for animal welfare in Norway, and it's revealing to see all those who have crocodile tears every time they comment in all kinds of microphones when one after the other comes into the media. We've seen this over and over again, and there's party speeches on party speeches, and then there's no concrete grip. We can see that. I would like to say to the representative Pollestad, as I often say: there are two agricultural parties in Norway. It's the Center Party and SV – some of them are a little backward and some of them a little premeditated – so you can choose who I'm talking about. We agree on short-range food, more Norwegian production, smaller imports of power-feed, etc. I think it's a bear service for the agricultural seas that we don't grab hold of animal welfare, and I think it's very sad that you can't even join in on a name change, which could be an important signal in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1242	In my view, this debate has in the process evolved into an important debate because it deals with the relationship between man and animals – human dignity and the world of animals. There is a difference in the political landscape, where I perceive that the SV, the Left and the Green Party are on one side, and then there is a greater consensus on the other. Now one knows that one has won the battle for fur animals. It's not like there's going to be less fur-holding in the world, but fur-holding has been moved out of Norway – one can have a good conscience in SV, the Environment Party Green and Left, because we don't want to see predators in cages. What I fear is that this fight is not over. We just heard the representative pay tribute to the Animal Alliance and their markings from the pulpit here. We know that NOAH has received State aid. These are forces which will not be stopped by fur animals, but which will be passed on to all parts of Norwegian agriculture, on all parts of the livestock. The fact that the political party gives praise and support to such thoughts, scares me. I think it is absolutely necessary to take a specifier and give clear information that now we really have to think about. I want to take a small point about halalslacking, which I was in the line with the Minister of Agriculture, because I think it's not about a difficult religious over-interpretation. Of course, it should be possible to obtain halibut meat. Such slaughter is carried out in Norway under conditions which we can accept from an animal welfare perspective. This is where meat has been imported that has been slaughtered by methods that do nothing but cut the throat of the animals. A veterinarian who is a guide to, among others. Animalia, says in Bondebladet on 13 February that this means that the animals can experience “fearful and unnecessary suffering, including drowning sensations by instilling blood and rumen content”. This is beyond the limits of what we can accept in a religious context. Of course, a few meats that have been slaughtered properly, but we do not need to open for an import that goes far beyond it and that is regular animal abuse. I think the Council of State should take this seriously and go for a round to see if we can end this import – but it doesn't have to be understood that one is opposed to special ways of slaughtering for religious reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1249	I would like to begin by just commenting on some of what the representative Pollestad said. I understand the matter in relation to whether it's anaesthetic or not, because that's what this is about. For some religions it is not relevant to anesthetic, and that is what creates some of the issues in this question. That's what I want to say about it. It is not immaterial on a religious basis. Someone accepts anaesthetic – others don't. For what has been discussed today, which concerns animal welfare, the Food Authority has been a large part of the discussion. And I want to say that the Food Authority is in a spat. On the one hand, they are told by the National Audit Office that they are too late to use for a long time, and on the other hand they have received the KPMG report, which pointed to other aspects of the Food Safety Authority’s problems – they think that sometimes things are too fast. There are some challenges in this discussion. The budget for the Food Authority is approx. Bn. 1,3 kr per year. We will manage this in the best possible way for the Food Authority, so we will ensure good animal welfare. It has been important for me to spend the money and resources – there is no ridicule, I would like to say – where there is a need, and the need has been to ensure good practice from the farmers to the Food Authority, so that we can build confidence in the quality of what is being done. That's why we want to spend the money primarily on it, and not on a name change. We actually think that the money has to be spent where it is most important now, and it's about ensuring good animal welfare. It's not like I have money in the box to make a name change. That's absolutely right. I want to spend the money for the Food Agency on animal welfare and not on a name exchange – to answer the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1258	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1263	This is primarily for the representative Pollestad: if we're going to use the argument that there's a lot worse elsewhere in the world with animal welfare, with animal husbandry, it's close to thinking about other parallels. Should we not work against violence in Norway, for example? Because there's a lot worse in the United States? Just think about it. Well, that's not going to work. That's not possible. To that with the name, which I think is an important signal in itself: it's actually not food, everything that goes around four or two legs of animals in Norway. We have a dog and a cat. Let's eat some of that. It's a pointless name to call the Food Authority. It's disrespectful to the animals. It's not just food. It's living beings. I just have to say, it doesn't cost 280 million. to change the name of the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1270	I feel the need to speak in this important debate, because of course we were all affected by the documentary on pig production. Important steps were taken; they were taken before the Food Authority. There's a good job going on to improve conditions and routines. I have great confidence in it to be implemented. However, when we see repeated attacks on food production in Norway – for pig production is also food production, chicken production is also important food production – we also need to see the pictures of and visit those pig farms and chicken producers that have great food production. Right agricultural networks, with ladies in the hall, are still visiting good farmers. We visited Åsbakk Gård in Bodø – a fantastic, dedicated young family that has built up an amazing industry. That's what we have to talk about in this room too. We have to be concerned about animal health, but when there is a lot of good animal health in our farms, we also have to take that picture with us in this situation. I think it is important that what is now done in the Food Safety Authority for improvement should be implemented, but we also have a responsibility to ensure that food production and farm production are spread throughout the country, and that it is good. That's a lot of good examples, and we have to talk them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1280	The name change is about the assignment – I think everyone here understands that. We can turn the tiles around: we can skip the name change proposal if they are included in the content of the proposals. The answer to that is certainly no. That's what this is all about. For us, the name is not the decisive one, for the name is nobody, as one said before in time. We can't have a name if it's cheaper. It's the mission that's most important, and it's putting in place a proper reform of the entire supervisory methodology. That's the whole point. For this reason, I would warn against turning this proposal into just a name proposal. If that's all, we're ready to remove the proposal at any time and let the presidency know that we're pulling it – if we can get multiple numbers for any of what we bring here. But there's no plural for any of that. There's no willingness to address this. There may be a lack of generality: the willingness to properly reform systems to detect their weaknesses to those degrees. A little comment on what Geir Pollestad made: Where is the proposal? I looked through the configuration panel. There is no proposal from the Central Party to do anything about what the representative Pollestad brings up in his posts. If this was so important to the representative, one should have expected at least a proposal to be made before one begins to confront those who come up with proposals, the Council of State – full role. But there is no suggestion to do anything about that. It's a very interesting matter, which the Council of State was also involved in. SV can definitely be inclined to look at it. We're not opponents of this. But then there must be a proposal first. In American, one calls this whatabouttism – one has discovered something really critical here, but then one says: But what about that over there? It's even worse. Now there are concrete proposals on the table. They have been worked through and go straight into the core of the problem: it is the monitoring methodology of the Food Authority – how we organise animal welfare in this country. That's a big problem; everyone's a few. Suggestions are on the table, and they are the ones that must be taken from.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1291	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1296	The representative of Knag Fylkesnes is wondering where this proposal is. I shall then refer you to proposal No. 1, of which the Centre Party is associated with the Workers' Party and SV. Now it's simply done an examination of the Food Authority. We would like to get it and the Council of State's assessment of it back to Stortinget, in order to have a debate and take decisions based on the review that was carried out following a draft representative in Stortinget. So that's the proposal from the Center Party. I would also like to make a comment to the representative Nävra, who is talking about things being discovered in agriculture, and then one goes on as if nothing has happened. In the animal welfare field, enormous changes have occurred in recent decades. But when one listens to the representative Nävra, it's like the animals in Norwegian gardening had it better in the 1960s. That's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1303	I just want to clarify about the discussion about imported slaughter and slaughtering methods, that it is the Jewish religion that must have a special type of slaughter without anesthetic. The Muslims also have their own demands, but they accept stunning. That is the big discussion in this debate. It's deep in people and makes us respect it. There's also a broader discussion than the one we're taking here now, because it has many and deep questions for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1308	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1325	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1332	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in this matter. The position is promoted by the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. I'm counting on the Center Party and the SV to promote their vision. The Control Regulation is a revision of existing legislation on official controls carried out to ensure the verification of compliance with feed, food, animal health and animal welfare legislation. The 2004 Regulation is already part of the EEA Agreement and forms the basis of most of the control activities of the Food Safety Authority in the field of food today. The Control Regulation targets mainly public authorities and sets requirements for the organisation and implementation of risk-based control. The new revised control regulation, like the previous one, must ensure a high level of protection for human and animal health and the environment. Globalisation and international trade in food and animals contribute to the exploitation of different countries’ resources and competitive advantages, but may also lead to an increased risk of the spread of cross-border infections and diseases. Since 1964 an increasingly comprehensive Community legislation has been developed in Europe. The White Paper on food safety was presented by the European Commission in 2000 following several food scandals and serious incidents that threatened European food safety in the 1990s. The Norwegian food reform in 2004 followed developments in Europe, and food management was brought together in a new supervision, the Food Authority, which would cover all activities throughout the food chain, from soil and fjord to table. The new control regulation goes on to ensure that the European authorities are harmonised, that they have systems, organisation and measures in place to ensure compliance with the legislation in the field of food, including animal health, animal welfare and feed. As I said, the new control regulation is a revision of a legislation that is already part of the EEA Agreement. If we do not include the control regulation in the EEA Agreement, we will no longer have the same legislation as the EU. Norway, as part of the EU's internal market, is currently acting with the EU without border control. A fundamental prerequisite in the internal market in the EEA area is that we have harmonised legislation. Lack of this could create significant challenges for Norway’s exports to the EU. At the forefront, this could lead to the EU requiring the whole of the food area concerned in the EEA Agreement to be repealed. If our fish are stopped at the border out of the country and are subject to border control, it will result in great delays and costs. This will particularly affect Norwegian maritime food exports to the EU, which had a total value of over 68 billion. kr in 2019, representing more than 60 pst. of the total Norwegian maritime food export.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1345	The center part, similar to SV, is opposed to the setting in this case. We have read the proposition, we have tried to understand what it says there – what consequences does this directive have for Norway? I must admit that for me, at least six years of legal education has been wasted – that is not enough to get through and understand the consequences of this regulation. That is the background to our position on this matter. It's not necessarily related to the material content of the rules, but we think that the Storting must be informed in a better way than through what lies here, about the consequences it has. We know that it will give more bureaucracy for precious, we know that there will be a cost to the Food Authority that is not further, but what will that mean, for example. for the legislation relating to spraying agent? The Central Party has asked questions to the Council of State. We've got more information than what's in the proposition, but when we've done what we've done, it's because we think that the practical and economic aspects of the regulation are not well informed enough, and that the Storting is not informed. To save some time, I see that the representative Reten has signed up for the next article. I guess he's going to talk very seriously about the significance of this attitude to the EEA agreement for both agriculture and the fishing industry, and that he's concerned about the 2021 elections. Then I just want to say that what is involved in this matter and in this proposal from the Central Party is that we want to know the practical and economic consequences before we decide. One should not underestimate the meaning that the Norwegian Parliament knows the consequences of it saying yes or no. It's a side of democracy, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1354	The representative Pollestad is undoubtedly relatively suitable as a prophet, for in this case it may seem that the Centre Party and SV are more closely in line with the spinal cord reflex than with sound reasoning in view of the framework conditions for exporters of Norwegian-produced food. The fact that the Centre Party and SV are intrusive opponents of the EEA Agreement and wish to renegotiate it as soon as they come into government is still on their own account. I feel convinced that Norwegian farmers, fishermen, operators in the aquaculture industry and workers in the export-oriented industry will feel a growing concern as we approach the 2021 elections. This unrest will grow increasingly as these voters become aware of what could happen if the Centre Party, together with parts of the trade union movement and the extreme left in Norwegian policy, were able to take advantage of the process of scrapping the EEA Agreement. To refer to an almost 50-year-old contract work from the beginning of the 1970s as a good alternative to the EEA is purely wishful thinking. The centre lot and SV will not authorise Norway to revise its legislation on official controls on food, feed, animal health, animal welfare, plant health and plant protection products. This means that these two parties actively prevent Norway from harmonising its legislation with that in force in the EU and other EFTA countries implementing such harmonisation, and that Norway should continue the 2004 legislation – despite the fact that the Minister of Agriculture and Food, in his reply to the Economic and Social Committee on 27 January, gives a clear warning about this, to which the representative of Ebbesen referred. The fact that the Centre Party and SV choose this case to pursue a policy of labelling towards the EEA Agreement is understandable from the opposition party that is keen on government power – it is a practice of their own electors – but that this policy of marking is also a warning of what can happen to the export-oriented part of Norwegian business after any government change is much more serious. The centre party and SV say that they will vote against what a majority in the committee is promoting today. If they had been given a majority, this would lead to Norwegian export companies being significantly unforeseeable by the fact that the harmonisation of Norwegian legislation with that in force in the EU had not been implemented. This could lead to increased bureaucracy, extensive border control and difficulties in authorising Norwegian-produced food for human consumption in the EU and other EFTA States. That is what we in the Christian People's Party believe is motivating and alarming. In so far as the case is irrelevant, claiming that one would have had this further investigated, this is something that has been adopted in the EU. Our choice is to implement it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1367	Our food should be safe to eat, for both people and animals. EU legislation in the field of food applies in Norway through the EEA Agreement and is intended to ensure good food security. This legislation is comprehensive and requires, inter alia: food, plant protection products, animal health and animal welfare. An important part of this is the rules on official controls to ensure compliance with food safety requirements throughout the food chain. The old 2004 control regulation has already been in the EEA Agreement for several years and is the basis for most of the control activities of the Food Safety Authority in the field of food. In order to ensure even better compliance with food legislation, the EU has recently revised the control regulation. The new control regulation was incorporated into the EEA Agreement on 27 September 2019. The regulation will have some economic consequences. It is therefore incorporated, subject to the consent of the Storting. As with the old Regulation, the new Regulation also addresses mainly public authorities and imposes requirements for the organisation and implementation of risk-based controls. The purpose is the same as before. It shall ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. Most of the existing Regulation has been continued. The requirements have now been strengthened to ensure that European authorities cooperate more effectively than in the past. There is also an increased requirement for documents and procedures to be publicly available so that the public can be better informed about the control activities. The new Regulation is intended to be an overall umbrella for all control legislation, with the aim of providing a more comprehensive legal framework for control throughout the food chain. The scope has also been extended to several control areas, such as animal by-products, organic products and pesticides. Finally, I would like to stress the great importance it has for food safety to have harmonised control legislation with the EU. For Norwegian exports and good goods flows to the EU, it is also a prerequisite that we have the same rules for border controls in force in the EU. It is important for both consumers and commercial interests that the new control regulation be incorporated into the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1382	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1399	As the President will be aware, the Stortinget has set up a commission to investigate research policies and injustices against co-workers, women and Norwegian Finns. At the beginning of their work, the Commission has seen that they need access to information, and they have sent an enquiry to the Stortinget to get the necessary legal support for, as they say, ‘simplifying the transparency of classified archive material, clarifying professional secrecy and giving the Commission the opportunity to process personal data, and giving public authorities and professionals the opportunity to provide relevant confidentiality-related information to the Commission.’;» With that in mind, as we have said at the request of the Commission itself, we have chosen to present a proposal for a law that gives them the opportunity. It is a paragraph that deals with information to the Commission and that they can easily have access to silent information. This concerns the processing of personal data, where they can obtain transparency without the consent of the persons to whom the data relates. In return, the obligation of professional secrecy of the members of the Commission to maintain that type of information is clarified and also applies after the Commission's work has been completed and can only lapse after a hundred years. In addition, the prohibition that information provided in this way may be used as evidence in subsequent criminal or civil proceedings, as well as clear rules on how documents delivered and not sent to the archive are to be discarded when the Commission’s work is completed. By doing so, we believe that we have laid the foundations – as requested by the Commission – for the important work they are going to do to get into something that is a difficult story and a difficult part of Norwegian history. It is a unanimous committee which recommends that the law be adopted and that the Commission be given such powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1413	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1432	More than nine out of ten children go to kindergarten. The vast majority of parents are very satisfied with the kindergarten in which the children go, because of the efforts of skilled employees in kindergartens around the country. All kindergartens are financed by taxes and parental payments. So there's billions of dollars going from the community fund to the sector every year. This, combined with almost free access to profit, has turned kindergartens into profitable speculation objects. That is why international purchasing funds show interest in the Norwegian nursery sector. As a partner in Altor Equity, when they bought the Spark chain, they said: ‘Spirit as a company is a good platform for starting an expansion in the sector.’ So much for the children's best. Public funding zeroes the risk of capital owners. If they have bought a nursery, they will have a suction tube installed in the state safe free of risk. Today’s nursery law says: ‘Public grants and parental benefits shall benefit children in kindergarten.’ At the same time, it says: ‘Barnehagen may have a reasonable annual profit.’ It is this contradiction that makes it possible for the welfare profitor to enrich himself in kindergartens, even though the purpose of the law is to ensure that the grants and parental payments actually benefit the children. This is getting results in the real world. The owners of the Norlandia Children's Gardens, the Adolfsen brothers, are good for 2.8 billion. kr each. The owners of the kindergarten chain The educational workshop recently entered Capital's list of the 400 richest in our country, and Hans Jacob Sundby is good for 1.4 billion. kr. The parent company of the nursery chain Tryke Barnehager, FUS, has made 394 million. NOK 3 years. In other words, large sums of the citizens’ tax money that should have gone to kindergarten children are taken out for private enrichment and build billions of wealth for the few. While commercial groups grow large, the ideals are squandered by the kindergarten sector at a rapid pace. There will be commercial alignment of the fact that a few companies own several hundred kindergartens each. It threatens diversity. There is a fundamental difference between commercial companies that take money out of kindergartens, and those that let all the money benefit the children, namely municipal public kindergartens and not least private ideal kindergartens. Instead of protecting the great commercial owners' right to take private profits from kindergartens, the Red Government is asking to stop the commercialization, otherwise probably the small, ideal private have no particular bright future in our country. This is what we see in the development of the sector in our time. Not only does commercialisation weaken diversity, but it also weakens local democracy because the possibility of democratic sector governance has become increasingly poor. If a democratically elected majority in a municipality – as we saw in Oslo, Trondheim, Bodø and Tromsø after the local elections in 2015 – would like to say no to new commercial kindergartens and would rather expand new kindergartens in municipal operations and in private non-profit operations to ensure the very purpose of the law – that the money should benefit the children – it is illegal according to the bourgeois government. That was the answer from the then state councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen to these municipalities: you are not allowed to prioritize private ideal kindergartens in front of commercial ones. When the same parties ruled the capital in the years before, they decided to ban the construction of new municipal kindergartens. There is, therefore, access to the law to implement legal policies at municipal level, but there is no law to implement the majority's will, namely a policy that ensures that the money goes to the best of the children, both in municipal and private non-profit-making terms. If the majority of a local government wants to introduce better staffing in kindergartens than the minimum standard in the law, they can only introduce it for the municipal kindergartens. If maybe half of the children go to a private nursery, it's not allowed to make the same demands on staff, that is, on the minimum standard of law, when it comes to private ownership of kindergartens. We think this is unfortunate for the children and not least for local democracy. With today's legislation, if a nursery is approved and granted once, it will retain the grant forever, even if the nursery changes owner. This is why kindergartens are as lucrative as the sales item, because you actually buy an eternal right to get a suction tube in the state safe as long as there are children in the nursery – without prior notification or approval from neither municipality, parents or employees. The lack of transparency is an ongoing problem at commercial kindergartens. At a seminar on kindergarten policy that we organised yesterday, there were several parents who had notified about the conditions in various kindergartens. One of the parents' parents, from Lindesnes, had children in a kindergarten bought up by Norlandia. After that, the parents discovered lower compensation of employees and the overpriced rental – six times above the market price of rental, four times above the market price of the internal accounting services. In this way, commercial groups move money out of kindergartens and over to other parts of the business, which are owned by the same welfare professionals in full, but thus under a different name to that of the nursery. In our view, the purpose of profit has nothing to do in a kindergarten. There should be the best of children in the center, not earnings. The reports that the government itself has ordered show that those included in chains organised as limited companies have greater profits and also lower crews than other kindergartens. It shows that until the norm was introduced, the chains have searched for savings and profits by reducing manning as low as possible, in order to get the most out of kindergartens. Red has supported the standard of manning. We also want to extend it, so that it will apply to the entire opening time, and that it will also apply to calling in shifts from day one in case of absence, because otherwise the recruitment norm is unfortunately relatively little worth. The current grant model for pensions for private kindergartens is mildly said to be very generous. Very few others receive tax subsidies that they do not have, but this applies to kindergartens in the private sector. In total, these kindergartens received around a billion tax dollars too much — in addition to what they had in real pension costs. No one else in our country gets the kind of mild gifts for expenses they don't have, paid by the country's taxpayers. Thus, the welfare professionals in the nursery sector have received both reasonable or free land from the municipalities, they have received cheap loans, they have paid down their capital costs through the capital grant from the citizens' tax money, they have received more pension subsidies than they have in real pension costs, and on top of that, the operation is fully financed by our taxes and parental payments. Then everything is conducive to adventurous profit. That's why the profitability of the orphanage companies is three times the profitability of the companies at Oslo Børs. This has even had to admit to the Right that is a problem, and that is the background for the revision that comes now under the Kindergarten Act. In our view, if the purpose of the law is to be fully followed, and we are to ensure that parental and state subsidies benefit children, we must have the corresponding legislation that applies to schools. This means that there should not be access to take profits from schools or kindergartens. That is, it will be free for a variety of private ideal actors who want to run kindergarten without profit as a purpose. Those who are now squandered out of commercialisation will get better conditions if we harness the large commercial groups, which have the sole purpose of getting the most tax money out of kindergartens. If we get rid of that motive in the sector, they can operate on a private non-profit basis along with a variety of municipal kindergartens. The question is whether the government sees that we need to stop commercialisation to ensure that the money goes to the best of children, and not least to ensure the diversity of the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1475	Half of all our kindergartens go to private kindergartens. The private kindergartens make a decisive contribution to ensuring that municipalities can fulfil the children’s right to have a nursery place. Through the kindergarten agreement, there was a broad political consensus that private kindergartens should play an important role. A wide range of nursery services has been identified as a quality sign in the Norwegian nursery sector. We have gained better quality and more diversity in the sector, which is difficult to imagine without initiative and all the efforts made by various private actors. The parents are happy with the nursery service. Over 90 pst. by Norwegian parents it appears that kindergarten offers a good offer. This government is for private kindergartens and wants to ensure the diversity of both owner structures and kindergartens with different professional profiles. Private kindergartens ensure freedom of choice for parents and contribute to the diversity of the offer. Good kindergartens are particularly important for integration and early pre-school efforts. The rules for private kindergartens were laid down at a time when there was a need for large-scale capacity expansion in the sector, and parts of the legislation came from the 2003 kindergarten agreement. We got a huge expansion of kindergartens, and it has led to full kindergarten coverage, a better everyday life for many young children's parents and a better start in life for many children. The kindergarten sector has undergone major changes in the last ten years. From being a sector under development, it is now almost fully developed in large parts of the country. From the large number of individual kindergartens supported and supervised by municipalities, the sector is currently also made up of larger chains with a number of kindergartens in several municipalities. We see that it is more demanding for municipalities to supervise, and it is difficult for new and small kindergartens to establish themselves. Developments in the sector have thus given us some new challenges that today’s legislation has not taken into account. These are challenges that the government is taking seriously, and we have therefore gone through the legislation. My ministry has put forward a number of proposals for consultation and is seeking to address these challenges. We are now working on following up on this in a proposition that will be sent to Stortinget in the spring of 2020. I am concerned that the private kindergartens experience predictability and long-termity of the framework conditions. We have therefore rejected a number of left-hand proposals that will create uncertainty and make it difficult for private kindergartens. That being said, the government is concerned that we should have legislation to ensure that the funds provided by private kindergartens are used for the purpose for which they have been granted. Today, government grants amount to about 20 billion. kr, and the parental payment is approx. 4 B.C.E. kr annually. These are large amounts that are important to children in kindergarten. An up-to-date regulatory framework must ensure greater transparency and transparency about what the money is spent on, than it does today. It will help to create confidence in and to the sector. Private operators have also welcomed these measures. Among the proposals we have put forward at the hearing is the establishment of national supervision of the economic conditions of private kindergartens. There is too little supervision today, such as: because this is a complex and time-consuming task that requires a lot of resources in a municipality. Also, parts of the legislation are not sufficiently up-to-date to supervise kindergartens, as the sector has evolved. We believe that a national supervisory body is better suited to accomplishing such a task. This will lead to better and more effective supervision of private actors, so that we get more information that the government grant and parental payment are actually used on the children – and perhaps some of the conspiracy theories around kindergarten can also be killed. While ensuring that the funds are spent on the children in kindergarten, this government is committed to ensuring that the private kindergartens also have a sustainable economy. This suggests that we must also have the opportunity to have sufficient profits to ensure stable and predictable operation, good staffing policies and the ability to make necessary investments in kindergarten. This is a prerequisite for continuing to have private actors in the kindergarten sector, as a contribution to a diverse sector with real freedom of choice for parents and children. In our review of the legislation, we have gained a significant knowledge base. The report from the BDO, to which the representative refers, is one of several investigations we have collected. BDO found that the private sector of kindergarten has had an operating margin of between 5 and 7 pst. since 2007. Compared to other industries, this is actually at a normal level. The government wants a diverse kindergarten sector and to facilitate the continued development of quality and innovation in kindergarten provision. It implies that there are rooms for kindergartens of different sizes and types of ownership and with different educational profiles. I believe this contributes to quality development, local adaptation and more freedom of choice for families and children. Therefore, I believe it is important that it is possible to establish new kindergartens in the future. The representative refers to a strong fall in the number of kindergartens in ideal kindergartens since 2005. Our calculations show that the proportion of children who go to a non-profit nursery has fallen somewhat, but not near as dramatic as the representative refers to. There is no clear definition in the legislation of what is an ‘ideal’ kindergarten. The government chose to ask an open question in the hearing about what could be considered an ideal kindergarten. What is certain, however, is that I do not want a development in which the large groups grow and the small individual kindergartens disappear. Small entrepreneurs must continue to have conditions that enable them to survive. Innovation in the public sector is something we really need to welcome in the future. I am concerned that we should have a regulation on grants and controls that ensures good and safe kindergartens, which give parents freedom of choice, and which provides the basis for small and large kindergartens with different types of ownership structures. In this way, we facilitate the diversity of owners and stable offers to families with children. The Ministry of Knowledge has assessed various measures that can facilitate the continued existence of good framework conditions for the smaller actors in the sector. We continue to assess different solutions aimed, in particular, at equalising the small business disadvantages of these actors in competition with the larger kindergartens. We believe that this is important in order to maintain the diversity we have in today's sector. I'm going to come back to Stortinget with any proposals on legislative changes related to this. I am concerned that we should see any changes in context and create a regulation that works as a whole, and that is over time. With this work, we follow up eight different request decisions from the Stortingen on the development of the legislation for private kindergartens. In conclusion, I would like to stress that it is not desirable for any changes to the legislation to interfere with the ability of municipalities to manage and develop the nursery services on the basis of local needs and priorities. At the same time, the recommuneration of kindergartens is not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1513	Thank you to the Council of State for your reply. Around the turn of the millennium, the then central government, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, meant that government subsidies should not be granted to commercial kindergartens. In the big message Barnehage for the benefit of children and parents, presented by the Bondevik I government, they wrote: ‘In order to avoid public support for kindergarten owners operating for the greatest possible advantage, the Government will continue to work on a change aimed at preventing them from receiving state support. [[...]] When Red today stands for the same position that was a good center policy 20 years ago, we seem to be extreme. However, it is not in any detail to believe that welfare money granted to well-being should go to that end, not to build up heavy billion assets for the few. I remember that there's a difference, a fundamental difference, being a three-year-old in a kindergarten, a vulnerable youth in pediatrics, a nursing 80-year-old in a nursing home, and being a customer in a grocery store in a market. The small roles in kindergarten, children’s protection and caregivers are vulnerable users of complex welfare services; they are not customers in a store. They cannot take care of their own interests and set standards of quality as they do when buying a new iPhone or new shoes. They are handed over to the power of others, to the priorities and decisions of others in a completely different way than we are as customers in a commercial market. And then the question is, should the commercial profit motive have an impact on the framework of the trust-based meeting between vulnerable users and the system to take care of them? There's our answer the same as the left hand one in 2000, no. We won't let the profit motive into this meeting there are frames and limits to and allow profit maximisation from heavy, commercial billions of concerts. What the Council of State spookfully refers to as the ‘conspiracy theory of kindergarten’ is probably about Red being so crazy that we believe that when billionaires invest in kindergartens, it's not just because they want the best for children, but perhaps because they want to extract heavy sums of private profit from the operation. That's what they say, too. The Espira chain wrote it in a consultation opinion to a red-green bill that they invest in an enterprise or a sector – here kindergartens – because ‘they think they can get an added value for the investment that exceeds normal bank interest’. This is capitalist logic -- no conspiracy. It should also be understood by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1529	I don't think I used the word 'additional'. It may be that I use the word ‘socialist’, but I don’t necessarily think that socialism in all its behavior is extreme. I have no reason to believe that. What I disagree with the representative about is much of the numerical basis contained in the Red's report. The Ministry of Knowledge has ordered 10 reports with different factual backgrounds. In addition, we have received some counter-reports that have been ordered for other perspectives. All of these are open, and Red can access them to correct the picture that's here. Sometimes it builds public services from A to Å. It did so with the first major reform left when we gained power in this country, the great school reform. Then we built out a public school that was supposed to be for absolutely everyone. That's what the government did. It was the state that did that job. When we were going to build out the kindergartens, an alliance was formed in this room from SV to the Progress Party, where the private were asked to participate in the due diligence it was. That's why 50 pst is. of all kindergartens based on investments that individuals have spent their lives building up, used both their fortunes and their work. It is clear that the policy will be different than if the state had done it. That's why the Left is for a profit ban in school, which is built up by the public, but you can't ask people to use their workforce and their private money to expand a service offer to then tell them that we're going to take away from them the space of action in this. So we're very much in disagreement about the way we control the use of money. One of the things we've done is we've introduced a standard of manpower. The number we got two days ago shows that it has been a great success. I believe that we have to control kindergartens through the quality requirements that we set: employees have to be treated properly, the children have to be treated properly, and we have to make sure that professionals are helping the children. This is an effective way of steering. Over 90 pst. - 92 pst. – the parents believe that the offer is very good. That means we've found the mechanisms that make us manage to bring the money to the children. Had there been such surplus figures as Red presents here today, I think the kindergarten sector had looked quite different. I visit a lot of kindergartens, including many private ones, that run right on the "edge" and that don't know how to get them to hang out next month. I think we're going to cheer up at those kindergartens instead of criticizing those who belong to the small group that this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1540	The size of the meeting will now take a break to go to voting. We shall continue the debate after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1556	The cancellation is now ready to vote on the remaining issues on Tuesday's map, case no. 7 and 8, as well as over the things on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1568	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1–5, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests follow-up of the National Health and Hospital Plan (Report. St. 11 [[2015-2016]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to carry out an evaluation of the printing practices in public hospitals as soon as possible after the implementation of the interaction reform, to promote concrete measures to ensure that all patients are safely discharged and transported from hospitals, and to inform the Storting appropriately and at the latest in the State budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government by means of a mission document or by any other means to ensure that night transports do not occur, unless the patient so wishes, or there are very special conditions on which it is based.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government through a mission document or by any other means to ensure that patients, relatives and local health services are effectively involved in the outsourcing of patients from hospitals.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that healthcare companies comply with the requirements of the specialist health service to appoint the coordinator and to offer individual levels to all patients in need of long-term and coordinated services.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The left has indicated support for the configuration. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1624	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Kjersti Tops on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to provide a financial framework to ensure the real strengthening of the local government care aid scheme and to establish national guidelines for the award and measurement of care aid.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all resident users/patients with special needs for care and their dependants are offered a cooperation agreement capable of ensuring predictable cooperation and dialogue with health care, which takes care of the needs and rights of family members to relief, training, leisure, guidance and self-care, and the like.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1664	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a national escalation plan for the development of day-time and short-stay activities, including in order to ensure the relief and security of the relatives.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting to improve the opportunities for workers to take leave in the labour market in order to ensure equality and the possibility of combining work and care, cf. The proposals of the Kaasa Committee.’ The left has indicated support for the configuration. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1690	Before Stortinget goes to voting on today's map, the president makes aware that case no. 12, Unit, treated immediately after voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1798	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Storting to present a case requiring the Breeding Industry to replace the soya proteins currently used in the feed with sustainable feed by 2028. The dossier shall contain a clear definition of sustainability that ensures that the sustainable feed has a significantly lower environmental impact than current soybean.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward by the government on the introduction of a marketing ban for sustainable fish feed for the farming industry, where the start is low, with an escalating plan which is gradually increasing up to 100 pst. sustainable feed by 2035. The dossier shall contain a clear definition of sustainability that ensures that the sustainable feed has a significantly lower environmental impact than current soybean.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1838	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Cecilie Myrseth on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2-20, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting that by 2020 all farmed salmon be double-labelled in such a way that escaped fish can be easily identified and traced.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1864	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6 and 8–20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the granting of breeding permits, so that the price of growth is greatly reduced and instead demands zero lice, zero escape and zero resources are imposed on a balanced basis in order to be allowed for new or increased production. All new permits shall be granted to installations making use of the sludge from the installation.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to tighten up its practices in monitoring compliance with breeding permits, so that authorisations can be withdrawn if environmental requirements are broken.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a target to be set for the collection of all sludges from farming plants from 2023 onwards, and for an investigation to investigate how this can be done. The investigation should look at both fertiliser production and biogas production.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to establish and finance a biogas production infrastructure throughout the country and to make biogas production profitable.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a review of the traffic light system to elucidate whether the system is environmentally sound and in line with existing environmental legislation.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to cease farming activity in national salmon fjords, where operators who have to move take precedence over new sites outside the salmon fjords.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests that a target be set by the Government to ensure that all Norwegian farms are free from escape as from 2026 and to carry out an investigation as soon as possible to investigate how this can be done.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the cessation of the use of thermal leaching and other methods of leaching that challenge animal welfare until it has been demonstrated that the methods can be used without causing significant suffering to the fish or increasing the mortality of farmed fish and purified fish.’; Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that testing of methods of defrosting is defined as animal testing according to the regulations on the use of animals in procedures and is therefore carried out only after authorisation by the Food Safety Authority.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for environmental quality standards to be set by the Government for the bottom of the sea under farming facilities which are at least at the level of environmental requirements in comparable countries.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop the use of chitin synthesizers in the breeding industry.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is requesting measures to prevent leakage into the sea from copper used in Norwegian rearing plants.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to prohibit the use of the substance ethoxyquin in the production of Norwegian farmed fish.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up national targets for phosphorus recovery and unearthed instruments to strengthen the secondary phosphorus market.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a plan as soon as possible to reduce its CO 2 emissions significantly over the next 10 years for the farming industry.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the Food Authority’s sanctioning powers over farm production that are not in line with animal welfare and environmental requirements.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The size requests the government to introduce concessionary suspension until significantly more indicators than the load factor are included in the traffic light system.’ [[including the animal welfare of the cleansing fish]] Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asking for solutions to improve animal welfare in cleaning fish. Manufacturers who have not reduced their mortality to an acceptable level under the Animal Welfare Act by 2025 shall be penalised with reductions in production: [[Maximum authorised biomass]] The Greens and Reds have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e1974	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive report on the framework conditions and sustainability of the farming industry.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2000	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2019	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2-4, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and establish a registration system for all actors involved in the breeding of dogs, cats and rabbits for commercial purposes.’ The President noted that proposal No. 3 during the debate changed and now reads as follows: ‘The government requests that all relevant related data on dogs, cats and rabbits from veterinary visits be recorded in a database, that the data benefit the animals in the breeding system and that the database be used by the Food Safety Authority in its supervision.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of pedigree boards for breed and mixed dogs for use in dog rearing.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2056	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the regulation of the breeding of dogs that preserve animal welfare by requiring certification for breeders with two or more pups per year’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2080	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2099	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to develop market opportunities for mountain farming through the exploitation of grass, pasture and grazing resources and through agricultural and nature-based experiences, by facilitating the establishment of a national mountain farming centre.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2132	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure the further development of the research station Løken i Valdres for research and development for mountain farming.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2156	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The government asks the government to change the name of the supervision from the Food and Veterinary Authority. 2nd@item: inlistbox The government is asking the government to ensure that in its annual report, the Food Authority also presents findings from the monitoring of animal welfare in animal transport and in slaughterhouses. 3rd@item: inlistbox The government is asked whether the proximity of the working community in the meat inspection process between the staff of the Food Safety Authority and other staff prevents the independent role of the Food Safety Authority in ensuring animal welfare while driving slaughter animals and housing animals in slaughterhouse poultry. In this work, arrangements should be made for the roll-out of meat inspection veterinarians. The aim is to ensure that animal welfare is given the highest priority in the case of conflicts of interest in slaughterhouses. 4th@item: inlistbox The Government is asked to ensure that the Food Authority develops common tools, systems and procedures to identify those animal holdings with the highest risk of breaches of the Animal Welfare Act and to report the necessary management information effectively. 5th@item: inlistbox The government is asking the government to ensure that food monitoring, through guidance guidelines and examples, clarifies when different instruments are to be put into service following a concrete assessment, and to draw up an indicative timeline for stepping up more stringent instruments. 6th@item: inlistbox The government is asking the government to assess the prevalence of threats, shivers and pressures against the inspectors of the Food Safety Authority and to implement measures to ensure the safety of employees in their work. 7th@item: inlistbox The government is asking for a branding system for good animal welfare in Norwegian agricultural products. This investigation should be carried out in cooperation with the agricultural organisations, the animal protection organisations and the veterinary profession. Eight. The government is asking for the minimum living conditions for pigs to be reviewed by the government with a view to introducing more stringent requirements for the living environment which allow pigs to exercise their natural and species-typical needs. 9th@item: inlistbox The government is asked by the government to specify in the legislation what kind of physical handling of non-authorised livestock in agriculture.» The Greens/Reds Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2210	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The government asks the government to ensure that the unannounced supervision of the Food Authority is not notified in advance, in order to get a more real impression of the condition of the animals. 2nd@item: inlistbox The government is asked to go critically through the use of notified and unannounced supervision by the Food Authority and to make an assessment of the proper functioning of current practices to ensure that unacceptable animal husbandry is detected. 3rd@item: inlistbox The government is asking how to improve supervisory procedures in order to better detect violence against animals, poor attitudes to animal welfare and juxtaposition with journalism. 4th@item: inlistbox The decision requests the Government to set time limits for the execution of a new inspection visit from a requirement to correct serious non-conformities.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2237	– Since there are several votes that have not been registered in the system, we have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2249	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come to Stortinget during the spring of 2020 with an assessment of the findings of the external examination of the Food Safety Authority and a plan for the follow-up of these findings.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2274	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2301	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2385	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2396	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2439	The interpellation debate continues, and the first speaker is Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2444	I want to start by saying that it is nice to see that the representative Moxnes wants to debate private kindergartens in this room, because when the representative Melby had an interpellation on quality in Norwegian kindergartens a year ago, the representative Moxnes was not present. I could nevertheless wish that this debate had not only been about profit, but actually also about the distinction between good and bad kindergartens, independent of ownership, and how we can increase the quality of the offer in kindergartens. The Norwegian welfare community is built up by the cooperation of small and large enterprises with public and key societal tasks. The kindergarten sector is a great example of this. We have been given full child care coverage and greater freedom of choice for parents. We have natural gardens, outdoor children's gardens and real-time children's gardens. Parents and employees are satisfied – they are actually more satisfied with many of the private kindergartens. It doesn't cost a penny more with private kindergartens than municipal ones. We demand the number of employees and the number of pedagogues, and sick leave is consistently lower in private kindergartens. We wouldn't have gotten this if you hadn't been pragmatic in the early 2000s and made sure that even private people can invest their time, energy and money in starting kindergartens. It should really be lacking that those who have invested their time and taken quite a high risk – for the truth is that one in three private kindergartens are running short – also have the opportunity to earn something if they succeed. We know that the nursery sector is changing. It's harder to drive smaller kindergartens. Single kindergartens do not have the same economies of scale as the major actors. But the ‘major actors’ are not just the big kindergarten groups. The major actors are also the municipality. What Moxnes fails to mention is that the municipality also has economies of scale, and what many of the small kindergartens say is that the grant they receive per child is too low because the municipality also fails to include some expenditure in the calculation. It also makes it more difficult to be a firehouse and run isolated kindergartens over time. If Moxnes had got his way and cut e.g. Drastic in the night’s pension grant, many private, small, isolated kindergartens — even ideals — that are currently struggling to keep their heads above the water. The truth is that the solution to this is not to cut all private kindergartens over a comb and play 140 000 kindergartens. The solution is to amend the legislation in order to increase transparency, to impose stringent quality requirements and to improve supervision. The solution is also not to leave a fully built kindergarten empty, as one has done in Oslo, only to avoid a private operator starting kindergarten. The representative of the Moxnes may win the OL medal in selecting the reports and the figures that suit his own history description. There are many reports that reflect some of these numbers. There is a great deal in these reports that is more nuanced than what Mr Moxnes is saying here — in addition to the fact that there are very many single examples that are being drawn forward, which are not representative of the sector. The truth is that the nursery sector is not a very lucrative sector. One of three kindergartens is running short. The truth is that the last few years, after we made demands on the standard of living and tightened the standard of education, the profits in the private kindergartens have been very small. I mean, unlike the Moxnes, it's actually quite unfortunate, because having a little bit of profit makes it possible to have a buffer in case the situation gets difficult. I believe that going with deficits is not a sign of quality either. The right is that the money should go to create the best possible kindergartens for our children, but we get the best possible kindergartens by having a variety of actors in the sector, making strict demands on the number of employees, the number of educators and decent working and pay conditions, so that parents and children are satisfied. I think there are both good and bad municipal and private actors, and I think it's a welfare mix that makes it possible for them to learn from each other and extend a little longer to the best of people. I'm not willing to sacrifice this interaction. I am not willing to sacrifice very many ideal and private individual kindergartens to prevent any private kindergartens from making any money if they succeed. That risk is obviously Bears Moxnes willing to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2465	I record that there was a slight disagreement between interpellant and state council on what the interpellant should be called – whether it was extreme, or whether it was socialist. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly of Red decided that they should remain communists, so the right thing is to call the interpellant Communist. Then it may not be so strange that he continues his fight against private welfare providers, and that today the fight against private kindergartens is on the agenda. The Party of Advancement is a member of private forces in the kindergarten sector. Cooperation between countries, municipalities and private kindergartens is a very successful welfare reform. Private kindergartens have been, are and must be important to ensure that the most important thing for many families with children is to provide adequate childcare facilities. A new parental survey, once again showing the same thing as the survey the year before and the year before and the year before, revealed that private kindergartens are cutting better than public. This applies in areas such as hygiene, outdoor areas, well-being, manning and toys, and for example: also the transition from kindergarten to school. We know that most of the private kindergartens are of high quality, they represent a high level of pedagogical and content diversity, they have consistently lower sick leave, and they operate effectively. And as long as private kindergartens are both cheaper in operation and have consistently more satisfied parents than municipal kindergartens have, the question should not be how to stop them. Since private kindergartens receive exactly as much money as the public, this means that public spending more money to deliver a service to their parents is less satisfied with. Then the question should be, how can we learn from them? But for Moxnes and Red, quality is obviously not the most important thing – or the best of the child, as he said in the introduction – but the most important thing is who runs the service. If we were to start a massive recommuneration of the private kindergartens, PBL has estimated that it will cost approx. 50 B.C.E. kr to take over. That's money I'd rather be able to go to other things. I don't want to spend more time on the communist ideas of the representative, but since the topic of private kindergartens is on the agenda, I want to take the opportunity to ask the minister again – since she herself addressed the theme and said that a new law on private kindergarten regulation will soon be presented – to listen to the sector's input, scrape the points that have received the most criticism, such as. making changes in the contribution to pensions without seeing the financing of the sector as a whole, and, of course, the requirement that each nursery should be organised as a separate legal entity. This was taken up by the Learning Workshop in its consultation response – that it could cost $10 million in increased salary management, accounting, forwarding tasks and auditing. This is money that should have been spent on the children, but which they fear will go to increased bureaucracy. The Progress Party is committed to maintaining the diversity of services and services in the kindergarten sector and to continuing the success of private kindergartens. But it will be difficult for the Progress Party to join in on these points, and if the government wants a majority for its new law with the support of the Progress Party, they should also listen to the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2480	We all work to have good kindergartens – for the best for the children to be there. Just for these children, we are not served by a debate where we go to the trenches and use sharper shots than necessary. In fact, we have kindergarten coverage thanks to half private and half municipal kindergartens. Kindergarten and private kindergartens are essential for coverage and development across the country. Kindergarten is an important venue for the inclusion and development of children. It is demanding that it be speculated in the kindergarten sector and in welfare services in general. Therefore, I believe it is important that private kindergartens are ahead and challenge the elephant in the room. I would like to ask: how can private people contribute to building the confidence that some individual unprofessional actors have been able to weaken? This I base my post on further. I believe that the funding system is a huge challenge both for the municipalities and for the individual kindergarten. The difference in grants is still NOK 100000 from the highest to the lowest in Kommune-Norway, and 50,000 children are still missing from compliance with the standard. The government is committed to taking action to address the challenges, but increasing demands can also have undesirable effects. We need to preserve diversity and ensure the small, private ability to drive. In the state budget for 2020, the Central Party disagreed on cutting the funds to the standard of manning. 31 municipalities do not yet have the norm in place, according to the Ministry of Knowledge. In addition, the scope for applying for discretionary means is in competition with other good purposes applied for here. Operations must be cut before they can search. We need a comprehensive investigation into the financing of kindergartens, not fragmented changes and climbing. I am amazed that the Ministry of Knowledge process is on request of reports leading to proposals. We need to have a neutral approach to the issues. And close dialogue between those affected and those who propose the measures is very important. Concrete to the changes: I think the most important question is what kind of sector we want. Governments claim that the response has been positive, but the truth is that it has been mixed. For example, it points to reasonable annual profit, and it's clear that when the average is 4 pst, it's not as easy to cut everyone over one comb. I believe that increased supervisory requirements and increased supervisory competence are some of the things that need to be done to address the problems. It is also pointed out that kindergarten should be a legal entity of its own. Then the equivalent is that the audit industry and the bureaucrats are the ones who serve it. Increased reporting to BASIL and increased transparency are a much better solution. The problem of transactions between companies could increase with this proposal. The pension grant has also been developed as an area of cut, which will also be able to hit all flats and turn out dramatically. A third of the private kindergartens are running out of money today, and there are several people who have pointed out that the findings of Telemarksforskning's report were too thin. When the Ministry of Knowledge distributed the grant in 2014-2015, they themselves said that high pension subsidies should be seen in the context of low capital grants. In total, the changes could affect the ones we just want to keep. Already has been triggered by closures. The small private and ideals are the ones that disappear first. When it comes to local versus national supervision, the Central Party believes that this should be the case with those closest to those affected – that it should be with the municipalities. I thought the Left agreed. There are too many unanswered questions about how to organise this. If employees of Ålesund are to reach all over the country, they must also be able to receive input from local authorities. The Centre Party then believes that funds to the national cannot go beyond resources to the local community. The level of conflict has to go down, the dialogue has to go up, and we have to ensure early action and quality in kindergartens all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2499	The representative Moxnes listed kindergarten owners who have enriched themselves in kindergarten. Unfortunately, there are many examples of how it is possible to take out large profits. Complicated ownership structures are one of the ways this is done. I want to give one example, and this isn't a conspiracy theory. Recently, the Moon Ray Kindergarten at Frogner in Oslo was convicted, and it has to pay back SEK 1.7 million. kr to the Municipality of Oslo after the supervision by the Municipality of Oslo has been revealed, among others. the owner has overpaid, that there have been management collections in European cities characterised by spa and tourism, with no particular professional content. Unfortunately, not all municipalities can afford to exercise such supervision, and very few kindergartens have had this kind of supervision. Following this judgment against the Moon Ray Kindergarten, Education News has revealed that it is the nursery company that is to cover the requirement of 1.7 million. kr. This is going to be an evil spiral. Once again, we see that the children in the nursery have to pay the price for taking profits in Norwegian kindergartens. So this is one example of why it should be illegal to take profits from kindergartens, as SV has suggested several times in Stortinget, but it has been voted down by the government parties. Then we didn't have to spend a lot of time and money going to the commercial owners in the seams, and we could use these resources on the kindergartens instead. But as long as the population permits this to continue, there is a lot of profit in some kindergartens – for which we have a lot of examples – one must therefore exercise expensive supervision on a much larger scale than that of the government. As we see in SV, every crown taken out of the kindergarten and transferred to private property and consumption goes beyond the quality offered to children and parents in Norwegian kindergartens. Kindergarten teachers, skilled workers and other employees are the most important means of ensuring that children in kindergarten are well cared for, and therefore SV believes that the economy of both municipal and private kindergartens needs to be strengthened. Among other things, the standard of staffing in the nursery was not financed by the government with one penny, but it was left to the municipalities to find money for it. We have to make sure that every single penny that the government grants will be used for what they have to do, and not for private profit. In fact, we can't, from the Biggest side, sit and look at this waste of public welfare bills anymore. SV has large views for Norwegian kindergartens, and the children must then be placed in the centre. Of course, SV's requirement is that the crew standard should be met, that at least 50 pst. by day-care centre staff shall have kindergarten teacher training and a minimum of 25 pst. of the assistants shall have the relevant degree certificate for work. We also say that temporary workers should be inserted in case of absence, so that the children get the offer that the framework plan says they will get, and that things don't go out because of the adults' absence. The Minister made a statement on the importance of diversity in kindergartens. Unfortunately, the development we see is less diversity and a government that does not lift a single finger to do anything with the less diversity we get when more and more Norwegian kindergartens are bought up by the four largest kindergarten groups. Then I think, unfortunately, much more has to be done than the new minister seems willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2514	Today early in the morning, I heard at Political District while packing the babysitting bags for my kids, and I wondered if I should have a bad conscience so that I would immediately leave and deliver them to a welfare profitor with suction pipes down into the treasury, as the representative Moxnes spoke about. But when I came to the nursery, my attack of bad conscience was gone, because then my kids were met by both wise and warm employees who accepted them well, and I know that they have it very well there every day. I think it is a pity that we should once again start a debate on kindergartens that are just about ownership and ideology rather than about what is most important: how our kids do it every single day, and what's going on for them to thrive and evolve. The representative of Moxnes is talking about the money going to benefit the kids, but he's really not saying anything about what it's about, he's just talking about ownership. The most important thing for the Left is that we have a good and accessible nursery service for everyone. Good kindergartens are crucial to our success at an early stage, and they also help to ensure freedom and equal opportunities for all children later in life. We have prioritised, in the kindergarten debate, making sure that kids from families with poor advice are also allowed to go to kindergarten. We have put in place the free core time system to give them a better start to life and to equip them better for school. We have also been involved in introducing a standard of manpower and ensuring both high adult density and high pedagogical density. Now we're about to finish, and we've now heard from the Council of State that more than nine out of ten kindergartens last year met the recruitment norm. That means there are even more kids meeting more adults, and competent and competent adults, every single day. That's what counts in the kindergarten debate. We need the private kindergartens. The red-green side even did a great job of bringing them into the heat when we were going to get full babysitting, and for that these kindergartens do not deserve a threat of being deprived of the nutrient base. In 2011, the then State Council Kristin Halvorsen said: There are starters of kindergartens who have made a lot of effort and many hours without paying for everything, but they may have also invested private funds, and it would be unreasonable not to allow them to make a profit. In the left we say that better is always possible. We must be positive about changes and adjust legislation and funding at the time we live in, and we must not be naive at all. We need legislation to ensure that it is not possible to take unfair dividends, and so does the Left and the Government. But to start a witch hunt on a whole sector that has been heated up and that users are very pleased with, I think, is quite disrespectful. I understand that the focus for the Moxnes and Red is on the big owners, but what he forgets is that when he talks about them, he takes all the little actors into the draw-suck. I have met many people who feel stamped as profitors, without themselves feeling that they belong to that category. This summer I visited, among other things. The playground in Risør, which has approx. 30 children in an old three-roomed villa in idyllic surroundings, offering children a fantastic offer. They now experience increasing scepticism, both among parents and among municipal politicians, because they're a private kindergarten, they're an AS. They are rightly owned by the same woman who started the nursery, who is also the leader there, who spends countless hours working and who has also taken up her own loans and has taken her own financial risk to ensure a good offer for children. These feel affected by the same criticism that may be primarily intended to hit the big ones, and the changes in legislation will also hit the small ones in the same way as it affects the big ones. The left considers that the focus of the debate must be on what makes our kids have the best possible childcare facilities. I can participate in many discussions about what kind of criteria we are going to have, and what kind of quality requirements we are going to impose. I think it's the most important thing – not just to focus on who owns the kindergartens. Of course, we're going to take the challenges that exist, seriously, and I'm very happy that the government has warned us to ensure that you don't take unfair dividends. It is also very important that we have national supervision that ensures exactly what the representative Fagerås had in mind: of course, if we have unprofessional actors who do not deliver quality or use public funds incorrectly, they should be taken for it, and they should not be allowed to operate kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2533	Thank you to the interpellant for bringing up this topic. The working party is concerned that we should have the best possible kindergarten for all children, regardless of where they live, and regardless of which nursery they go to. I believe that the overall issue of child care policy in Norway is that investing in kindergarten is one of the funniest things we can do. That's good for equality, that's good for the line of work and that's good for giving our children a better starting point for the rest of their lives. But then it's not necessarily where the money ends up either. I just want to say, at the beginning of my speech, that the Labour Party likes to discuss quality – we do that in all the debates about quality, we promote proposals about it too – but when, among other things, we do. The Right Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party say that quality should be discussed rather than profit, and that accusations of not participating in the debate on quality, I have two things to say: firstly, I like to see Red in several debates on quality in kindergarten. It's not where they've been most active, to say it like that. But the second thing is: stop using the argument about quality in kindergarten, and that it is important to take that debate, to create the impression that the debate on profits in kindergarten is not important. There is a different kindergarten sector in Norway today than it was in 2003. There is a different kindergarten sector in Norway today than it was in 2013. We see that the large limited companies, which are also commercial players, have increased that there are fewer ideal and small players in the Norwegian nursery sector. The working party believes it is good to have diversity in the kindergarten sector. There should be room for both public and private, but there should be little or no room for profit. I believe that the parents who have their children in kindergarten in Norway are not primarily concerned about whether that nursery is public or private. So honestly, I think we should just be. They are concerned that kindergarten is good, that there are enough employees, and that quality is good. They're also concerned about where they pay the money, and the government grants, port. It is difficult for them – and us – who are concerned with diversity in the kindergarten sector, to explain and defend the development that has been taking place in the Norwegian kindergarten sector in recent years, where, in other words, the share of large commercial ASs has increased. The number of ideal and small actors has decreased. We also see a great interest from international purchasing funds, which are now not just on the threshold, but are actually buying up in the Norwegian nursery sector. These are short-term owners. We should not be so naive that we believe that their goal is the long-term quality development of the kindergarten sector, because it is not. They've also said that in black and white. They see it as a place to place capital. Large nursery nurses, as can almost be called, have prospects for international buyers to show that the Norwegian nursery sector is a lucrative place to place its capital. That's good returns. Are we interested in the Norwegian kindergarten sector becoming a speculation object? The answer to that should obviously be no, and it should call some alarm bells also far into the Right House when we see that development. This debate on profit we have had many times in Stortinget. The games basically mean the same thing now as you've done before. What we're waiting for is for the government to come up with its proposal for changes in the law, which, hopefully, can help clean up, close again and bring down the profits. We've been waiting for summer, autumn and winter – and hope we don't have to wait ours and summer again until we get something on the table from the government. I believe that one of the things that should be done in addition to the amendment of the law is to change the funding of the recruitment standard. When I hear that the government parties are worried about the small and the ideal actors in the kindergarten sector, one of the first things I think is: well, why don't you put the money on the table to finance your own standard of living? If there is one concern we see from the private, small and ideal kindergartens, the funding of the standard of living means that once they have cleared up their equity, once they have used up their own budgets, they are in danger of either having to lay down or sell their kindergartens. Then we know who buys them up. Right now it's not the Bears Moxnes or Red – although I don't like to have to defend him – that's the biggest threat to ideal kindergartens in Norway. It's the government that's sitting there, who refuses to pay the bill for their own crew standard. I hope the government makes other suggestions. I hope that they will follow up what the Workers' Party was given a majority in 2018, together with the Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties, to establish a legal distinction between commercial and non-profit kindergartens, so that priority can be given to them, that we have equal demands for public and private kindergartens, that we have a right of pre-emption, and that the government takes a proper review of the funding system, not in part and in part, as we have seen in the review they have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2554	Whenever six out of ten citizens will end up benefiting privately from welfare services such as kindergarten, old age care and child protection, it is because people have experienced — and have also been relatively pissed off — that money that should have gone to the best of vulnerable users of welfare services instead disappears from these services. Two examples from smaller kindergartens: Parents have seen that the owner of the nursery, where it is spinned and saved in the offer to the children, spends kindergarten money buying a split new Porsche for himself, and owners who have bought holiday and business apartments for kindergarten money in Torrevieja on the sunny coast of Spain. This is the background of the growing opinion against the profit of well-being, which goes far into the center. A massive majority of the voters of the Christian People's Party will end this. The same applies to the voters of the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, and not least Red's voters will end up with the money disappearing from the services. They shall go to the best interests of service users. And when the Right says that there's not so much profit in kindergarten, it's strange that the Brothers' Repair that owns Norlandia is good for 2.8 billion. kr each, that the owner of the Learning Workshop is good for 1.4 billion. kr alone, and that a couple from Sunnmøre recently made 356 million. kr to sell their kindergartens in Spark to a non-resident purchase fund. This is not due to technological innovation or value creation. No, the values of the company are properties that are fully financed by the residents through cheap loans from the Husbank under market interest rates of 100 p.m. of the investment, and not least that the municipality’s capital contribution has covered all the costs of the loan. That left and right confuse this with value creation is just a little bit sad. It's not value creation just to move values, transfer them, from tax money to private wealth. That is what the vast majority of people want to end up with, and that is why Red's position on the profit of well-being is becoming more and more popular. You want to make sure that the money goes to the best for the users. Finally, I would like a response from the Council of State to what is at stake in the area of democratic freedom of action. Does Skei Grande agree that the municipalities in which a majority wishes to be able to give priority to non-profit private kindergartens in front of commercial schools for the development of new kindergartens will be allowed to prioritize them, or is it still prohibited for them to distinguish between commercial and non-profit kindergartens in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2569	To the last question first, we have heard the term ‘ideal’ in one of the hearings we have sent out to get some clearer definitions, because it is clear that the definition of Moxnes, which is that everyone who is not AS, is ideal, and everyone who is AS is commercial, is a wrong definition. There's quite a broad consensus about that. But finding the right definition of this is one of the things that's heard, and it's hard to find a clear definition of that. Then it's about how far down you can move power, because of course you can move power down to the municipalities, but it's also interesting to move power down to the parents, so that they can decide which kindergartens are going to run on the basis that we now have to build up the community because there are fewer children. So – in conclusion: Barnhager is one of the most important educational institutions we have. We know that children who go to kindergarten are better off at school. They have less non-response, and they take higher education. This is one of the most important inputs we have to combat social inequality in Norway. That is why this government has introduced free core time and reduced prices for them with the worst advice. That's also why we've provided a staffing standard that ensures that we get good quality on the kindergarten people are going to use. And parents are very satisfied with the offer we have. I hope that in the future we can also start asking children if they are satisfied with the offer they have, so that we can also measure the development of it. Then it's important to have control, and it's important to have systems that ensure that quality is good in the future. We do that through norms, we do it through other types of requirements, but we also do it with supervision, like the Oslo example, which was shown here, that supervision can affect the kindergartens that use the money incorrectly. It shows that the system is working. But this applies to municipalities like Oslo, which are so large and have so much professional capacity that they can actually do it. So finally, I have to say that the picture created here that 140 000 children go to kindergartens where employees go to the spa, buy Porsche and holiday apartments, is a wrong picture. Let's do it. There are so many out there who stand on and work hard to get good kindergartens, and who are in a completely different reality than the picture created from this pulpit today. I understand that many of those kindergartens feel very insecure with a Center Party that is opposed to all kinds of restrictions that this government has sent to the hearing, an Workers' Party that is only large in the rhetoric, but has no concrete suggestions, and an SV and a Red that speaks as if the kindergartens are owned by people who go to Porsche in the spa or buy holiday apartments. I understand that uncertainty is created in a society where one sees such a bursting opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2582	The debate on substance is closed. So 9 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2600	The school shall adapt to the pupils. The classroom shall be an inclusive arena in the child’s growth. All children should have a friend at school, and they should experience that the teacher believes in them, has expectations for them, and thinks they can master the subjects. We have a job to do before this becomes a reality, and I am therefore very happy that we get this debate on the agenda today, because around Norway there are several thousand students who are motivated for schoolwork, who want to go to school, but who for emotional reasons are unable to do it. Around them, thousands of parents try to persuade them every morning, drive them to school, try to get them into the school gate, ask for help, and are puzzled that they won't succeed. In recent months I have had a lot of contact with teachers, parents and employees in the PPT on involuntary school leave. They tell us how much difference there is in the follow-up that children get between municipalities and between schools. On the Facebook group School Rejection/Involuntary School Absence, you can read thoughts, reflections and frustrations from those who experience this on the body. I recommend everyone to go into these pages and listen to those who experience it. The reason for involuntary absences is very variable. We lack sufficient research on what constitutes the main cause, but there are enough stories available. It's e.g. the story of him with high learning potential, a capable six-year-old, who is already in first class. He doesn't get a good relationship with the teacher, goes off in frustration over the community he's not part of, gets taken out of the classroom to get maybe one-to-one customized training, which is often training with low expectations, and with unskilled assistant. The years go by, he shuts himself in, and trauma from high school causes him to struggle more and more mentally. Next to it are parents on the side line. This is, of course, maybe the worst case scenario, but it's a story of more. Because although the reason for the involuntary absence may be different, feedback from those who experience failing follow-up is quite unison. They say there is a lack of competence among teachers, school managers, municipalities and PPT. There may be a lack of competence on how to follow up able children, how to create a safe and good learning and school environment, and a lack of competence on children with neuropsychiatric disabilities such as autism, Asperger, ADHD and Tourettes. Parents also say that it takes too much time for them to get involved in the PP service, either because it takes too long from school to send referrals, to prepare an expert assessment, or because it takes too long before the school sees the danger signals. PPT or Statped is often contacted only when the absence has become too large, and even after they have been contacted and submitted their recommendations, schools often lack sufficient competence and a support system to follow-up the students with the recommendations that have been proposed. It might be this that's at the heart of the problem. Absence often starts in the small and can develop to become larger. The students who, because of insecurity, anxiety, learning difficulties, bullying — not least — and physical and mental illness stay away from school for a long time now experience not only that the knowledge gaps in the subjects are growing but that they are falling outside the social environment. Therefore, it is vital that schools have routines in place to follow up on the absence of the moment it occurs. Then I'm not talking about after a few weeks or a half year; I'm talking about the moment a student is sporadically gone for several single hours without justification, the moment they're gone more than ten days in the semester, or the moment they meet up at school, but leave school again. These are the danger signals. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State recently stated that we need a national absence statistics, and I am excited to hear more about how this is going to be done. In Report. St. 6 for 2019–2020, Close to – early and inclusive community in kindergarten, school and SFO, the government proposes that the PPT should work more preventively in school and that it should be tightened up on the use of unskilled assistants. If this means that more teachers are given professional guidance in learning situations and that those working with children in school everyday life have more competence, it will be a decisive step for which the Right National and Local have worked. But for this to succeed, more things need to be in place. Firstly, clear demands must be made on the school to seek help when a student has serious absence, if they do not have the competence to follow up. School leaders simply have to take ownership of the problem. When it comes to students with signs of school rejection, unfortunately the waiting and seeing attitude in Norwegian school still lives. Often the distance from the school to the PPT is much greater than the distance from the odometer. We need the second enhanced competence in all of the terms. The government has recently introduced a further training offer in special pedagogics. There were a lot of teachers who applied, but I hope the Council of State will look at the possibility that more people can get such an offer, and that school leaders also get the skills to follow up students who need organized training, and create an inclusive culture in school. Last but not least, it is absolutely necessary to build a better and more multidisciplinary support system in each school, or — if not feasible — between schools in a network. Today, many parents experience that they are throwing balls in the system between school, child protection, Statped, BUP and PPT. I believe that this can be done essentially if one dares to reorganise the services in the municipalities – or across some municipalities – for example. PPT, to work at school with this group of students for several days a week instead of switching between office and school. You can also imagine a type of school absence team. In Stavanger they have tried and tested a multidisciplinary team, and it serves as a support function for the schools. In any case, the goal must be to be able to build a better team around the students. We might also need to talk about the student vision and attitudes of those students who fall outside of our perhaps somewhat narrow normality concept in school. There are several studies on Norwegian special education, most recently the NOU from the Nordahl Committee, which suggest that Norwegian school encounters children falling outside too much by looking for defects in the child, and perhaps often trying to solve the problem by removing the child from the social community, for example. by being sent outside the classroom, doing activities that provide very little learning, and then you experience that the feeling of stigmatisation increases over time. That solution is too individualized. It does not address the underlying school environment. Professor Marie-Lisbet Amundsen in special education at the University of South East Norway recently conducted a study in which she interviews several parents. Many people experience just this, that the school is often unconsciously blamed for the refusal of the child and the family instead of having a critical and holistic perspective on their own school and their own management. Amundsen writes that the supervisor points out that there is a paradox that when the school appears to be insecure for their children, they are faced with questions about what is wrong at home. Of course, the school environment included is about organization in classrooms, in learning situations, but it's not just about it. It is not just about improving general education, so that more children need to be organised can be included. It's also about something as simple and as difficult as having a friend in the classroom. Good friends strengthen well-being, it strengthens self-confidence. Students with longer absences are often familiar with this. They may be entitled to home education, but they do not have the right to remain part of the social environment if they are long gone. Like a father said, ‘Since my son was unable to attend school any longer, the friends he had previously retired from school.’ The father further said that after the son came back, no one would ‘take him into group work, and it was hurt. He came home crying several times, and after a while we couldn't get him to go to school. The situation became more and more hopeless." I hope the Council of State will take this further into its work. Schools should try to extend further to ensure that classmates also have contact with the children while they are away. Young people have the right to an adapted and inclusive school environment. It says nowhere that this inclusive school environment has to be organized only within the four walls of the school building. I want to mention one thing in the end. Child protection shall be notified if there is reason to believe that there is some form of serious care failure. The reporting obligation is incredibly important. Officials shall not cease to submit. At the same time, we also need to understand that for many parents with children who suffer from school-repudiation, who have experienced being warned about, and despite the fact that the warning is very quickly put in the drawer of child protection, it is a further impression, and it also creates remorse and distrust. Many studies show that young people who are anxious often feel better at home. It should also be an argument that the school wants and works with good cooperation with the home as much as possible. Parents should not experience what many people are doing today, namely suspecting them. They are very often happy that child protection does not question their care, but at the same time they are very disappointed that no questions are asked about the school's discharge. The Government has notified the introduction of an obligation to follow-up on high absences. I hope that the Minister of Knowledge will stress the importance of good school-home cooperation, that both parties are humble and show mutual trust in the best interests of the child. I have used my speaking time to share some reflections and thoughts. There are many more I could share, because there are many recordings and many stories that are important for people to communicate. But I hope this is an input that the Council of State will take further into account in the work on the Storing Communication and its follow-up, but also when considering restrictions for municipalities to keep track of absenteeism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2661	Thank you very much for an important interpellation. Until recently, we have far too little about student leave in primary school. Now we have knowledge that the absence is too high, and I am, like the representative Tybring-Gjedde, concerned about these students. A lot of absenteeism is often a sign that something is wrong, and those who are a lot away from school are missing out on important professional and social learning. In addition, pupils with high levels of absence at primary school often have high levels of absence at school, which may increase their risk of not completing secondary education. At the same time, serious school leave has consequences in addition to the individual student – it affects to a large extent the nearest family and school, as well as the support device and the municipality. We know that safe and inclusive school environments free of bullying, good organisation and that students experience professional mastering and support are an important universal solution to prevent all kinds of absences. Last year, the government announced the main message Closely, which has several measures to contribute to early and inclusive communities both in kindergarten, school and SFO. Here we emphasise that the work with inclusive communities is about making all children feel that they belong to and are valuable to the community. If we succeed in this work, it will probably be easier for most people to come to school. The rules to help ensure a safe and good school environment were tightened up as late as 2017 and have recently been evaluated. The evaluation shows that the rules function well to a large extent, but there is still a difference between the practice of legislation and the challenges of documentation work in schools. We are therefore working to improve the guidance on the rules in order to clarify how the legislation is to be practised. At the same time, we know that students with high levels of absence are a complex group, and the reasons for their absence are often both different and complex. When absence lasts over time, complexity also increases. Schools and municipalities therefore have an important responsibility to catch up as early as possible with students at risk of high levels of absence. In cooperation with the home and support system, they have to work to gain insight into the causes, so that the right actions are put in place for the individual. Regardless of the reason for their absence, it is also central that schools have good routines, both to catch up with students with absences, to follow them up when they are away from school, and to take good care of them when they return. We have recently conducted a question in School-Norway where this topic was highlighted. Of those who have a lot of questions, we see that almost all the principals of primary school have routines to follow up on absences. However, less than half of them report having routines specifically aimed at caring for students coming back after long absences. The figures also show that there are relatively large variations between municipalities. We're going to take care of that. In order to help the schools and municipalities in this work, we will shortly publish new and up-to-date teaching materials for schools. The aim of the guidance is to increase the competence of schools in how to prevent absenteeism, to identify the reasons for absenteeism, and not least to follow-up students with high levels of absence, including: as a result of school refusal. We have also decided that we will introduce a clearer follow-up obligation that will oblige schools and municipalities to prevent and prevent long-term absences in primary school. Many of the challenges that some students face cannot be solved separately. It requires coordinated efforts from different services. In 2018, the Training Act therefore stipulated that the school has an obligation to cooperate with relevant municipal services on the follow-up of children and young people with health, personal, social or emotional problems. We present several important and comprehensive actions to ensure that the right skills are brought closer to the students. Among other things, we will strengthen the competence of schools and support systems to capture and monitor children and students in need of specific organisation. We also propose to clarify the responsibilities of the PP service for prevention and early action and to harmonise and strengthen the provisions on multidisciplinary cooperation for children and young people in sectoral laws. In this work, we will also look at how we can ensure comprehensive and coordinated services for children and young people and thus cooperation between welfare services. Everyone who works at school needs to do what is possible to create a good framework for students. Children and their parents should feel that school is a safe and healthy place to be. This is the day-to-day prevention of absenteeism in school. It is also often in the meeting between each school and individual student that challenges can best be addressed and followed up. Municipalities, for their part, have overall responsibility for the fulfilment of the students’ basic right to education, and that appropriate procedures and competences are in the right place and at the right time. From a national perspective, we need to ensure that we have a good knowledge base, an effective regulatory framework and adequate and accessible guidance resources to assist municipalities and schools in meeting with a diverse student group. I believe that the measures currently being taken will be important in the work on better and formerly catching up and following up on children who, for various reasons, are struggling with long-term absence and school refusal in primary school. I want to highlight in particular the obligation to follow-up and new guidance material. At the same time, our long-term work in creating the best possible school for children and young people will be crucial in this area: continuing efforts to ensure safe school environments, strengthening multidisciplinary cooperation and a lasting lift of expertise in the field of special education.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2705	Thank you very much for a concrete and good answer. I am pleased that there are very specific steps to be taken to ensure that the situation improves, and that there are not so many differences between municipalities. In particular, I think the obligation to follow-up can be important, but it is clear that the guidance of the municipalities is important to acquire skills so that you can follow these students, because there are obviously many different reasons. Often this is also a question for the special educational support system on how to get a better and more inclusive schoolworking day. It also requires greater coordination and perhaps reorganization of services, so that the PPT is more present in schools. I hope that the Council of State in the further work can see something more closely at the municipality of Nittedal, which has developed a guide, a home visit manual called ‘Every day counting!’, which tries to use just the resources they have in the municipality to tailor a better model to build a team around the students. It was very interesting to hear that there are so many schools that do not have routines to follow up children who have been away for a long time and come back, when we know that there is so much risk. I would like to make a point that I hope the Council of State can take on, and it is that more parents and students who are struggling with school refusal or other long-term absences, say that although they have documented absences from the specialist health service or the caregiver, they often experience when they come back to school, that they do not have the right to more organized training. The PPT considers that they do not have learning difficulties, but the knowledge gaps have become so large that it only helps to enhance the sense of alienation if they are not given appropriate and organized training, for example: in reading, writing and billing. The obligation imposed by the government to follow up on 1 to 4. Class in reading, writing and billing, I hope I help you actually get intensive training at the moment you're back with a lot of knowledge holes. But I'm probably a little worried that this statutory court will not be followed up in all schools, and that it might be too small for those who don't have learning difficulties, but who come back to school and had needed more intensive help early. I think that's also important to feel inclusion in the class, especially because you've often fallen out of the social community as well. Then it's important that we listen to the parents. Even teachers and professionals with great and thorough competence must see the intrinsic value of listening to parents, listening to their experiences and thoughts. And we must not least listen to the students, who I know the Council of State is concerned about. Schools and PPT have to work on relational construction. I have previously made arrangements for home visits. It's not because parents should be blamed, but because it might be wise to go to a arena where the children feel safe, to build trust relations before the children go into school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2714	We have to listen to all those who work well in this field, because it's not just that until two years ago we had no knowledge of the absence, we also have little knowledge of the basis of absence. You can get into a situation where the teacher thinks there's nothing wrong with the school, so then the mistake has to be at home, or the parents think the opposite, but maybe none of these answers are really related to school refusal. It can be very complex and very different reasons. In fact, it can be quite at the level that the child does not understand why it should be at school, and that one cannot find motivation for that reason. So this is very complex. We need to have more knowledge about it, and we need to learn from those who get to do something about it. So I think we should make better systems for all students who are long gone, whether they're gone because they've been placed abroad for a period, whether they've been home because they've had a serious illness, or whether they've had seriously ill parents who have been away from school for a long time. We have to look at how we can use technology. We see a lot of innovation happening within this now, with no isolation robots and other things that can make kids that stay long away from school, for example. for health reasons, however, the large knowledge gaps may be avoided. We have to make good systems for those who are gone for different reasons, also good systems to avoid the large gaps in education that you get in longer absences. Here we have a lot of new work to do, and then it's clear that the schools that have done a good job have to add the standard for the job we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2725	For the child and the family affected, school rejection not only has negative consequences here and now, but it can also be devastating in the long term. Children and young people get isolated, they lose contact with their network, they minimize social training, and they miss education. Research also suggests that school-worshipers as adults often have lower levels of education, more problems in the workplace and poorer quality of life. In the interests of both the individual and society, it is quite clear that school rejection is a challenge that needs to be solved. There is now no special mention of school refusal in Meldning. Paragraph 6 for 2019-2020. It is essential that you understand the problem in its entirety and do not oversimplify it, as I feel that the representative Tybring-Gjedde does in part when she points to shortcomings in the routines of the schools and municipalities. ‘It takes too long for the school and the municipality to detect high levels of absence and, in several cases, inappropriate measures to be taken’, said the representative of the Evening Post when she sold in her interpellation, which we are debating today. Right-wing representatives in both the UK and the government are at all quite often out of touch with the index finger and assign blame and responsibility to the municipality – asking them to give better priority and strengthen themselves. What we see in this case, and as this and other things show, is that the municipalities and schools need a helping hand from the government that is responsible for the national framework conditions for the overall growth conditions of the pupils, because this is not just a school problem. The municipalities now have the tightest budgets of 15 years. School rejection is a complex problem with different factors. It is about the characteristics of the student, the characteristics of the family and the characteristics of the school situation. Over time, these different factors lead to a withdrawal from school. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde is concerned that the municipalities need to have absence protocol procedures and check the absence often. My experience as a former representative of the municipality, as a municipal school owner, is that it is necessary to keep up with the absence, but that it is completely inadequate to solve the complicated problem this is. This is not just complex, but the challenges often start much longer in advance, before the children start school. In an article in the July Newspaper, staff in Statped pointed out this very complicated reason for serious school absence and school refusal. They meet many school demands, and several of them have signs that are obvious already in kindergarten. It is known that children with neurodevelopmental disorders are overrepresented among school wallers, and that students often have additional problems, such as learning difficulties, behavioral difficulties, depression and anxiety. If you add that the level of conflict between students, parents, schools and help agencies is often high and characterised by powerlessness, you see the problem in it. Statped underlines what is important, and as the hall should note, it is unclear in today’s system which authorities are responsible for following up and coordinating school-repudiation work. This confusion is something the government should take on the challenge of helping to clarify. Follow-up obligations for municipalities and absenteeism are hardly enough to solve this. In addition, I would like to point out an article from the Psychologists' Association that suggests that the complexity of the problems – or demands – that schools, homes and help agencies spend time with the student in order to understand what is behind, and that they jointly make a plan around the student to get out of the hospital. So it's important to slow down. It is a completely different recommendation from a short-sighted focus on absenteeism, action plans and parental guidance, which is likely to have a rather limited impact on school rejection. School refusal is rarely something that the school suddenly discovers when one starts to conduct absences. These are complex problems that require entirely different types of action than usual. When I was rapporteur in the Nesodden, we experienced a wave of school refusal. We went to work thoroughly and across the board to solve the problem. One of the measures was a low-threshold provision under the auspices of the Utéskolan, as an alternative training area that was not required by law, but which the local government prioritised [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2748	I must thank the representative for an important interpellation. Often, there are complex reasons for high absenteeism. It may be a lack of motivation, dissatisfaction, mental health problems or a difficult family situation. These students need presence, motivation, help in lifelong learning and organized school education. But we cannot take this debate without talking about high absenteeism even in high school. Then I believe that today's absence limit may unfortunately prevent these students from attending the school. When scientists warn against increased polarisation and non-response, it must be taken with the greatest seriousness. Then we must expect the whole country's new minister of knowledge to see how the absenteeism is being practised today. In May, we proposed a number of adjustments to how the absence limit could help and counteract this. Firstly, I had hoped that the minister would have been willing to talk about the absence limit and short and long-term measures that could take care of those students who are at risk of falling away. Furthermore, I believe that by increasing the principal's discretionary room, we could have adjusted the absence limit for undocumented absence in such a way that the unfortunate consequences of the absence limit were reduced. Parents should be given authority to certify absences, and in addition, we will investigate whether certification of absences is a task that we could have given to health care providers. Finally, secondary schools should have the possibility of introducing local schemes with flexible school working days where this is desirable by the school and where there are no major disadvantages. Unfortunately, we have seen that the former Minister of Knowledge, Jan Tore Sanner, with his beaks and claws has defended the border of absenteeism. He stated that the absence limit was good for all students, and that we in SV should put that discussion dead. I have to remind you that there were two objectives to introduce the absenteeism limit. It was intended to contribute to increased school attendance and to reduce school dropout. Fafo provided an interim report on the absence limit last year. It showed us that only one goal was reached. Absence has been reduced, and it is important, but at the same time the absence limit leads to more students being ‘not assessed’ in one or more subjects and the likelihood of non-response is increasing. I am deeply concerned, and I hope that is also the concern of the new Minister of Knowledge. I hope that the new Minister of Knowledge takes Fafo's research seriously. Then the only lasting conclusion is that the absence limit is too rigid, and that it seems to hit just the vulnerable groups that we see that both the Right and the Left are busy here today. Fafo’s report shows that SV’s concerns related to a static absence limit have been very real and that further changes are needed. I am pleased that Høres Sveinung Stensland recently told the media that he was now about to assess his rigid relationship with the border of absence. This may indicate that the Right might be on the way in this matter. As late as last May, SV proposed to investigate the certification of absenteeism as a task that could be given to health care professionals, Sveinung Stensland and Right voted against, but I now have the hope that it will be possible to obtain something that will ensure that all students with high absences get their schooling carried out in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2767	That as many as 12,000 children are struggling with school rejection is serious. It's a frighteningly high number, and it shows that we're burning for school, we have a job to do. All students shall experience mastering and learning at school. Everyone shall have equal rights to education and shall end his professional and social potential. The centre party believes that the training should be adapted to the individual within the Community. However, there shall be room for organising the teaching and follow-up differently based on the needs of each individual student for adapted training. For many students, recognition and expiry of practical skills will be an important motivation for learning. We must continue to work to make the entire schooling more practical, diverse and relevant for the lives of the students. It is not possible that the school is one-sided towards academic career paths, it must prepare young people for a varied professional life. All students have the right to adapt their education according to their own assumptions. Over the course of several years, we have seen increasing target management in schools and in the public sector. This creates problems. What's measured is what gets attention. What cannot be measured – or cannot be measured – becomes a downward priority. The centre party fears that schools are being pushed to focus on good test results rather than good teaching. The space for action that is intended to be in school locally and with the individual teacher is, in fact, heavily tightened up, among others. due to extensive school bureaucracy. Overall, I would like to point out that under the Training Act, there is no school obligation in Norway, but training obligations, which parents can fulfil by going to public school, private school with or without public funding or home schooling. It is important to be aware of how the law is followed and that children of school age receive the training they require. Here should report. St. 6 for 2019–2020, Focus on early intervention, be full of instruments. There may be many reasons why primary school students are gone. Absence is generally divided into five categories: disease, diffuse health disorders, leave, school refusal and squalor. The center part perceives pressure and stress as a central part of this. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Paragraph 6 is unclear when it comes to responding to issues related to just pressure and stress in school. High expectations of answers to the issue of child growth are answered with recognizable right-wing policies and promise of further investigations. The centre party is disappointed. The message sent out the course for a performance-oriented school — not a learning-oriented school. The notification should be a response to a decision on the evaluation of the 6-year reform with lack of play in school, boys’ early stagnation, stress and pressure for students, etc. This does not take up the message and does not cause further problems. At the same time, the government now recognises, despite the fact that we adopted it two years ago in the Grand Duchy, that there is a need for an external evaluation of the 6-year-old reform and how the youngest children have it – better late than never. The centre party believes that part of the solution is about reducing testing. On the other hand, the government wants increased testing and data collection to run statistical analyses on our children’s training. We're critical of this. The government writes, among other things: that they will introduce an obligation to assess all Norwegian pre-school skills and establish an expert committee to propose school development based on the school contribution indicators. At the same time, we know that the Higher Education Programme Committee assesses whether the State should enter and take over the operation of schools if they do not deliver results on the standardised tests, surveys and requirements. This is a subtle vision of knowledge and will not help the students who are struggling with school refusal in the long term. In concrete terms, school-repudiation counsellors and the practice of rules are the right way to go. These include: written books on the theme, and a new doctorate has just arrived. We need a lot more research in the field. At the same time, it is important to listen to what children and their parents report. The student organisation believes that we need to focus on the requirements that are being imposed, and the reason for the absence, rather than making more demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2784	It is good that the Right travels an interpellation to its own government after seven years to alert on how school development is in terms of absenteeism and school refusal. I don't think the answers the council has given so far, can calm neither the interpellant nor those who have fallen out of school. It is a crisis not only for society, but for the individual, for the family, siblings and grandparents, that children and young people fall out of school. It has to be experienced as: what have we failed with? It must be felt as guilt. Then we see that the representative points to the municipalities – that is the responsibility of the municipalities – and points downwards in the system, instead of taking responsibility after seven years in government. School refusals have often been met by schools and auxiliaries, thinking that the problem is the child and the youth, possibly the family. I think that might have been communicated in many meetings between school and children and family. Gradually, it is also increasingly evident that school-related factors play a role in school rejection. This means that school rejection is a complex problem for many possible reasons, and that each student is not a statistic, but each student must be seen as an individual and taken seriously. For children and young people with school refusal, it's often about speeding up," said Sandberg's representative. For every day of absence, it becomes more difficult to come back, come back to the schoolyard, the classroom with fellow students and others. At the same time, there is a need to understand what causes and maintains school rejection. It is not good for anyone to send a child to school if it is subjected to bullying when it gets there. In case of insecurity, it is necessary to see each one, not just in the schoolyard, but on a trip to school and not least on a trip home from school and in leisure, to try to find out what makes her or he does not want to or manage to go to school. Has something happened that does this? You have to ask if the child has someone to be with at school, be as specific as possible when you ask, and spend good time on it. Keeping statistics on absenteeism is the easiest way to follow up who is present at school — every day, every week, every month of the year. It does not improve the situation for the individual who is struggling. We need to address the problems of the individual student, the families and look at what action needs to be taken. Most young people who do not attend high school get to work and do well, but some stay out of education and normal working life for a long time. The representative of Mona Fagerås was involved in this. It's not just about primary school. It's just as much about high school. It starts at an early age, from kindergarten, elementary school, high school and high school. What is young people's own explanation? Extensive research from many countries shows that school leaving is influenced by four main factors: school performance, family background, school exposure and school context. Gro Hilde Ramsdal, of the Institute of Protection Care, has, together with other researchers at the University of Tromsø, interviewed those young people who strive to get back on track after they have graduated from high school. Here the young people tell how they themselves experience and understand their drop-out processes, processes ranging from kindergarten to the last year of high school. Young people’s descriptions are in many ways surprising, and they contribute different approaches than those from quantitative research. The working party is concerned with early work with high professional quality. Everyone must start in kindergarten and in the small step and through high school. Cross-disciplinary cooperation is needed. There must be clearer efforts in childhood, from 1st to 4th grade, with more teachers, having a reading, writing and calculation guarantee that young people feel that they are performing and handling everyday school life. Safe children learn best. It's about an inclusive schoolyard. We need to strengthen the school health service. We must have adapted education in school, a practical school bag, among other things, unless testing – and no more testing, as the Right stands for. More testing will give more pressure and more denial. The principle of primary education is also crucial for success — not centralisation, but decentralisation of the school. Strict, safe framework conditions where a boron is important in order to be able to thrive at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2807	I'm glad there were many who wanted to discuss this problem, but I think it's a little sad that the opposition decides to stand up here and beat cheap political points and argue with the government, instead of actually making some concrete action on what we should do. I haven't actually seen anyone in this room, either in the last two or three years or in the period before that, address this issue, that there are almost 12,000 children struggling differently with involuntary school leave. I don't recognize that I'm oversimplifying either. I actually think I tried to base myself quite a lot on research and also the recordings and feedback that have come from parents who experience this on the body. When I e.g. mentions that there are unclear responsibilities – that child protection says it is not their responsibility, but the responsibility of the school, and that parents feel that the BUP is responsible for possibly helping if children have anxiety problems, but not if they suffer from school refusal, and parents become wasteballs – that is not a disclaimer or a simplification. Rather, on the contrary, I think that is a rather important description. We need to know what the problem is to be able to solve it a better way. I fully agree that absenteeism plans and absence protocols are not enough in themselves, but this is probably a prerequisite for municipalities to follow up on those schools that obviously have bigger challenges, both with the school environment and with the learning environment, which means that students don't want to go there. I just think that we have made a communication on early and inclusive action, that we have this debate, and that we should introduce an obligation to follow up on absence, is an example of taking political responsibility. But it's not a quick fix. Here, something has to be done in many areas, simply because the problem is so complex, and the reasons for school refusal are complex. So I have to say that I think it is a little sad to hear the special representative of Fagerås in this debate just beginning to discuss the absence limit at secondary level, instead of having some kind of interest and action for the problem of school refusal. There are children over ten years of age at school, and the worst thing is that many of these children have fallen too far. They have fallen from almost once they enter the port of high school, because the problem has been there over all the ten years. That's where we must be. I think it's worth mentioning that Agathe Steen, a girl who wrote in Si ;D the other day, wrote that she was really at school; she couldn't get up in the morning. The absence limit was the reason she went to school. Just then she felt that the limit of absence was the sinner, but now in retrospect she sees that it could have been the rescue because she was actually met, and that someone wanted her to be there. So I'll say quickly to the Center Party: there's no difference between being busy with reading, writing and billing and being busy with students being happy. Rather the opposite; the two are completely dependent on each other. Students who struggle with school rejection have often had low expectations for themselves, low expectations for their mastery, and they had just needed to be clear that they should be included in the professional community at school, and that they should then experience mastery.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2823	I think I have respect for the Storting Sea if I say there was a bit of a strange debate. I was invited to answer questions about children who struggle with school refusal in primary school, and then to get a very long debate about the absence limit I was not quite prepared for. But I'd like to answer what SV here focuses on. When the absence limit was introduced, a very close evaluation was carried out, and now we are going to have the final review of the absence limit and its effects. So we'll get a proper evaluation of that and a proper feedback on it. It is true that there has been a debate that maybe other health professionals should also be able to do well for one to be ill, and that one does not need to go to a doctor, but this has also been a major resistance in some of these health care groups. I think it is important to have respect for these disciplines and to have a proper process and not just adopt it at all on the subject groups who are going to work at school. The working party says that we have never cared about this, and that it is only now that an alarm is activated. Yes, it is only now that we have a government that has wanted to have information about this, because this has never been measured before. The Labour Party has been governing school policy for many decades, and they haven't even cared about measuring this. 2018 was the first time we received official statistics on this type of absence. It was the first time that one focused on it. We have now delivered a big message entitled ‘Purpose — Early Efforts and Inclusive Communitys in kindergarten, school and SFO’, which is just about this. We also amended the Training Act in this field as early as 2017. So we've been working on this for a long time. We've also cared about making the numbers public, so we can have a public debate on this. For me, this debate has proved that we need more knowledge about what the background is. We have e.g. no factual knowledge to the effect that those who travel long have more school refusal than those who travel short, which is one of the claims made here. We need more knowledge about what is the background for school rejection. Nor is it the case that a person receives a school-repudiation in the first and second grade because of the test regimen in Norwegian school. That's not why the six-year-old won't go to school. There are completely different reasons for that. Here we need more facts and a little less vision, and we need more research and more follow-up. We also need a little bit of different answers, because these are different kids with different reasons why you don't want to go to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2838	The debate on substance is closed. So 10 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2856	On many occasions my former students have had to sing Halfdan Sivertsen's song with the lyrics: «Every time we meet, we're fine We're friends before life. Such a good thing to have’ – for example, if there had been squabbling in a spare minute, or we needed a break or just had a little extra time before the school bell rang. It's with some pride I look back at my former students. There have been students from all over the world, from finer functional houses on the view, high-block students, from the city and the village, lion's-tanners, eager and sometimes a little late children, all of them extraordinarily good at their things, students who have attended the same class and at the same school in spite of skin color, religion and social status – and become friends for life. It's one of the finest in Norwegian society. The background for me entering this interpellation was the numbers SSB came in in January this year. Last year there were 261 private schools in this country, the highest number ever. Over the last decade, the number has increased by 62 pst. Of all primary school students in 2019, 4.2 pst went. So 27,000 students in private schools. It's an increase from 2.6 pst. in 2009 – all this according to SSB. There are 162 public schools in Erna Solberg's reign. At the same time, there have been 65 more private schools. Privatisation has shot speed under today's government. Privatisation of the school system is taking place throughout the country. Since 2013, 118 of the new merged municipalities have received fewer public schools. During the same period, 77 municipalities have received several private schools. There's a record increase in the number of private schools. In SV we are afraid of this development. We mean it threatens the high school. The common school is strong in Norway. It has had and should also have a safe and central place in the future, because this is a good thing. But when the primary school is threatened, we react. An inclusive single school shall ensure that all children and young people receive a good training offer and adapted training, irrespective of where they live and the economic background from which they come. We also believe that there is a value in itself for all children, regardless of their social or cultural background and their connection to religion, that the primary school, meeting at the local common school, is a good one. At a time of increased polarisation and diversity, it is more important than ever to ensure school as a common arena where students meet across backgrounds. It is important to fence around the inclusive primary school. It allows for better learning and to promote mutual respect and tolerance between people with different backgrounds and different ways of living. It's simply about building communities and building communities. Otherwise, differences in society are increasing. A high-level public school is important for children to have equal opportunities for success. This is something SV and the left has previously agreed on in school policy. The Minister spoke in an earlier speech today that the first task of the Left was to have a public school for absolutely all children in Norway — an important task. Like the Left, SV is not against private schools offering alternative education, as we often hear, but the development in the number of private schools is now so great that it threatens the primary school. The SSB figures show that there is a privatisation of the school that, if it continues, will in the long term undermine public schools. From Sweden, we have seen that the consequences of this are becoming more segregation, increasing differences and more school dropouts. We have also seen how bankruptcies in private schools have affected Swedish students. We can't have it like that in Norway. I have received feedback from Norwegian municipalities that do not want this development. Then there will also be an attack on local democracy when the former Right Knowledge Ministers have continued to approve so many private schools, especially when municipalities oppose these developments. The evening post last November revealed that the Ministry of Knowledge has tried both local politicians and professionals 14 out of 23 times in recent years. This happens as we meet in very many other contexts from the same parties that local democracy is to be determined. Understand the logic here, the one that can. In June 2015, the private school law was amended once again, so that what was previously referred to as private schools is now called health schools. In reality, schools are the same as before — private alternatives to public schools. A post-secondary school recognised under today's law of higher education is a school which offers primary and/or secondary education on a so-called special basis. Schools approved under the law of higher education are also entitled to state grants, and schools are recognised for a certain number of pupils, which they may subsequently apply for. The changes in the private school law gave municipalities and county councils a right of objection when schools apply to start up or want to expand the number of students. The law states that ‘approval shall not be granted if the approval has a negative impact on public school provision’. So the municipalities have a right of objection when schools apply to start up or to expand the number of students. In many municipalities and county municipalities, the approval of hospitals has created major challenges for the provision of public schools. I and many politicians in our municipalities and county councils therefore believe that today's practice by the Ministry of Knowledge stands in the way of the ability of the elected people to make the choices they think are best for their students. This is a real problem in many places. In a small municipality, the recognition of a high school can create major challenges for the provision of public schools. Thus, although a municipality refuses to start a private school, often based on the local economy, the Ministry of Knowledge approves the applications without any concern. In many cases, we see that the Ministry of Knowledge is also overrun by the Directorate of Education, which, in line with the municipalities, does not want these private schools. One of the results can be seen in Overhalla, a municipality I think the minister knows well, where the department's yes to a private school can be expensive for the municipality. Overhalla municipality received between 4 and 5 million. kr less to walk with after the Montessori school there saw the light of day. Soon the job starts by cutting eight to nine years' worth of services for the inhabitants. It is possible that this is within the framework of the law, but it is in any case a decision that I believe is taken on an ideological basis. The answer from the previous minister of knowledge was that one wants freedom of choice in school. But this does not give freedom – it gives freedom to a municipality that suddenly does not have the economy to maintain a safe and good community school. I think it's naive to think that the emergence of private schools is just a pleasant supplement to the public school. For each student space maintained in a private school, resources are deducted from the public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2896	I wanted to comment on Overhalla first: the freshstool that came to Overhalla came because the Senterpartiet put down an alley school. A little branch really wanted to maintain her school and chose to start a Montessori school there instead. I think that's a good picture of a lot of what's going on around School-Norway, because we see that people are busy with their branch schools and the offer they give. As a starting point, I believe that the government's main job is to secure the public school and enable it to lift all students, regardless of background. The main priority of the government's school policy is to ensure that students are provided with wise, good and knowledgeable teachers, and the public common school has always been the central part of the Norwegian school system – ever since the Left founded it. At the same time, the government is committed to ensuring that parents and students who want an alternative to public school will receive it, which they also have the right to do according to human rights. I believe that the publicly funded high schools contribute to increased diversity and learning between schools and take care of the human rights obligations of Norway as a nation. Publicly funded fresh schools also contribute to ensuring the general ability of individuals to choose a post-secondary school. If not, the human right we are to preserve would only be reserved for them with good advice. Freedom of choice shall not be reserved for people with a high degree of resources. Anyone who wishes to choose an alternative to Norwegian school shall have the opportunity to do so. Free schools are open to all those who fulfil the conditions of admission, and the law provides clear limits on how much the school can demand in self-payment from each student. Schools have an important social responsibility. Since the first law on private schools came in 1970, society has been offering a supplement and an alternative to public schools. Strict demands are made for recognition as a high school, and we have clear legislation and procedural requirements to ensure, as far as possible, that students and their parents are assured that the fresh school they choose meets qualitative objectives. The free school shall provide training which is consistent with that given in public schools and the school curriculum requires official recognition. At the same time, the establishment of health schools shall not affect students who choose to attend public schools. The Free School Act clearly states that approval shall not be granted if it results in negative consequences for the host municipality or the host county. The host municipality and the host county have the right to express their opinion on this matter before approval is granted under the Law on Secondary Education. The opinion is relevant for the assessment of whether or not to grant an authorisation, but is not solely essential for the outcome of the application. The legislation forms the basis for careful and concrete evaluations, which weigh the consideration that advocates the establishment of a post-secondary school against the interests of the public school and its operation. I believe that today's legislation provides a reasonable balance between the consideration of the host municipalities and the host state on the one hand and the possibility to choose between different schools on the other. The Directorate of Education shall decide on the application for approval of new fresh oils, while the Ministry shall be the Board of Appeal. In the vast majority of complaints under the Solberg administration, the Ministry has maintained the decision of the Education Directorate. In the cases where the department has converted the decision to the Education Directorate, it is because the department has used the discretion that the law opens, different from the Education Directorate. This does not mean that the Education Directorate has applied the law incorrectly, and the possibility of conversion is in line with the administrative law on complaint handling. As I said, my main job and the government is to strengthen the public school. The vast majority of Norwegian students attend public school. At the same time, there must be room to choose an alternative to public schools, and the freshness school contributes to diversity and freedom of choice. The size changed in 2015 the law of free school on a proposal from the Solberg government. One starting point for the amendment was that more publicly funded fresh schools can contribute to increasing diversity and inter-school learning. The changes in the law went, among other things. in order to introduce two qualification bases — secondary vocational schools and profile schools, such as: Sports youth schools and real-time vocational schools. The increase in the number of applications to establish fresh oils is small, and there are only 3.2 pst. by primary school students and 7.2 pst. by high school students who attend high school. The vast majority of students in Norway attend public school. They're also going to do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2917	I'm glad that the minister believes that her main task is to strengthen public school, but I don't think the minister takes the development and the figures from the Statistical Central Bureau completely into account when she's so calm about the developments we're seeing, and the private school increase we've had under this government. Until now in the debate I have concentrated on private primary schools, but this problem also applies in our secondary schools and in our county municipalities. In the autumn of 2015, it became clear that the municipality of Hordaland wanted to put down Fana Gymnas and Garne's continuing school. The reason was a large number of school places available in the county due to a large number of private secondary schools. 16 pst. of Hordaland high school students attend private schools, while among the central students in Bergen City, the proportion is about 50 pst. - 50 pst. goes to private schools in Bergen. Because private schools have been approved for a certain number of student places, it was not possible for state politicians in Hordaland to reduce the number of student places in private schools. It meant that the only option they had was to cut off the public offer. The law thus stands in the way of the possibility for elected representatives to make the choices they think are best for the students in their country. The design of the law also contradicts the right of objection of the municipalities and county councils, as designed by the Law on Free Schooling. SV has proposed, and had in the autumn a proposal to amend the law so that it would be possible to reduce private student places if necessary in view of the overall total educational provision of a county municipality. This amendment should be designed in a way that provides the necessary predictability in the educational provision of the students we have in the field of education. So my next challenge to the State Council Skei Grande is: Does the Minister of Knowledge agree with me that the responsibility of the counties for our secondary schools becomes difficult to manage when private secondary schools stand in the way of having a decentralised offer throughout the county, as the example from Hordaland shows?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2930	I just want to repeat the numbers: in primary school there are 3.2 pst. of the students who attend fresh schools, and in high school, it is 7.2 pst. In the last six years of government there have been 14 changes in positions from the Education Directorate, there are 2.3 per year, while 53 refusals have been made during the same period to open schools. So the proportions in this field are not entirely related to the use of words. The discussion here is whether to increase the municipality's freedom of choice or whether parents and students' freedom of choice should actually mean something. This isn't much of a Norwegian school. It's not even so much that there's an ingredient in school law. I think it's just a spice that contributes, but it's clear that for some people it tastes spice – which is the alternative to public – very bad. And then there's some places where you can see that the proportion is increasing, as the representative pointed out here. I think that must be a warning for the public school, if that's how many choose an alternative that's both more expensive and less expensive. This is a school team that doesn't make up as much money as the public does in the same school places, and it's a school team that it costs to attend. However, when you choose that, I believe that there must be a warning for the school in that region, where you really have to work on the offers that the public has, and perhaps learn some of the schools that are able to attract more students. I think a lot of the recovery we've seen in primary school, which may be on 1 pst, has been about a lot of people dropping out of smaller branch schools because you either can't make a good enough offer, or you can see that you can have more strength for a school that requires both more professionalism and special skills than the school did a short time ago. Then it creates activity and joys to maintain small schools, which then leads to a few more health schools. But we have a school that has been professionalized very strongly in recent years, and that has much better professionalism. And then also having a little larger units has been important to many local governments, I think, in order to maintain the offer of special education, with special competence – all of the special parts that we know we need to strengthen the school with future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2941	There are at least two things we can establish by looking beyond this hall. The first is that the new state council has inherited the speech points of the old state council; there will be no change in the perspective of the increased privatisation with the Left in government. It might not have been so surprising. The second is that the interest of the government parties in discussing this matter in this room is equal to zero. The right and the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde have earlier today set the mark between commitment to a cause and participation in debate in the main hall. Then it's just to look beyond this hall and state that neither the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party or the Christian People's Party, who have a majority to rule this country, and where three of the parties are in government, have any interest in this issue. I think that's a shame. Perhaps the State Council of Skei Grande, as the only representative of these parties, should introduce some sort of absenteeism for her colleagues, because she is now sitting in this Chamber alone – in an important debate. I'm not going to make this a discussion of percentages and percentages, but we probably disagree with the picture of how wrong this is. With the right in government over the last 6–7 years, there has been a huge snitch privatisation. The number of pupils in private schools has increased by 40 pst. There have been stable proportions of students who have attended private schools. Now we've seen a massive increase. If one is adding the assigned places, i.e. the schools that have been approved, but where the students have not yet started, the numbers are completely different from what the Council of State claims. I would also encourage the Council of State to look a little bit at its list, because my impression is that the grandiose closure of the branch schools is history. It was a period one could point to it as the most important explanation point, but now see another picture. Now it's the change that this government has made in the law, that has made one get an outgrowth of what I want to call commercial profile schools. What you've seen little is the innovative, new vocational schools, but it's become a huge emergence in the big cities of profile schools, which essentially do not offer anything very different from the public school. They focus on being international schools or sports schools, for example, which I think is very unfortunate. The Labour Party believes that there should be a local veto right for municipalities to decide for themselves. They're best placed to control their local school structure. I notice that the Council of State makes it clear that there is an opportunity for the municipalities to complain and to get involved, but the revelations of the evening post last autumn show that it is almost impossible for a municipality to get involved when a local person does not want to set up a private school. I think it is a pity that this council does not want to see the seriousness of the matters that the evening post has revealed. The ministry has disregarded the professional advice and the local desires, and one is left with the fact that only ideology is the government's argument for setting up these private schools, and that one does not want to change this practice. There is an obvious weakness in the law, which the government should be willing to look at. It is fascinating to hear how the right-hand side – or the only representative of the right-hand side in this debate today – argues at least. These private schools are not so dangerous, and this is such an increase. Then I would encourage the Council of State to look at Sweden. In Sweden, they have already tried this. In the 1990s, they had massive privatisation. They have now had time to research on this, and this has led to increased segregation and increased differences. Not least, it has also led to increased costs, more bureaucracy and a very rigid system, while Swedish students are now delivering worse results, because the good Swedish common school has been shaved. So just by looking at Sweden, I and the Workers' Party think that there are enough arguments to say no to the sneak privatisation that is happening. I just have to regret that the government, with a new state council in the field, still does not want to take the necessary steps to reverse this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2956	Like the representative Tvedt Solberg, I would like to point out that it is interesting that the only representative from the government parties who is in the Chamber when the Stortinget is going to discuss the growth of private schools is the representative from the government parties who actually has to be here, the Council of State. If you were to use the arguments of the Right-wing Representatives that if you are not present during an interpellation debate on a given topic, you are not interested in the topic, it is quite obvious where the interests of the government parties are not today: neither at school or in private schools. The emergence of private schools — as we in the Workers' Party have also called ‘sniff privatisation’ — is an important question for Norwegian school. The council says it's only about a little spice that might taste bad for some, but there's a difference between whether it's salt or deer salt, and there's a difference between whether it's cinnamon or chillies you have in your dinner. Under this government, as the previous representative pointed out, it has been 40 pst. Increase in the number of pupils in private schools, i.e. since 2013. Every fifth high school in Norway is now a private school, and in very many cases the municipalities are denied their enquiry – the municipalities say no, they do not want to set up private schools, but it is set up against their will. Then we no longer only have a debate about private schools as a supplement to public school, but it goes further. To look back at history: During the Bondevik II government, when Kristin Clemet was Minister of Education, the majority of the population changed – against the Labour Party’s votes, otherwise – the so-called private school law and turned it into a law of free school. There was such a release of private schools that there were hundreds — yes, thousands — of private school places ready to be approved in the autumn of 2005 as the red-green government had to freeze, and there was great discussion, great disagreement and conflict in the private school debate in Norway. The red-green government made a comparison, private school settlement, with the Christian People's Party in 2007, which ensured state aid to private schools based on alternative life or teaching, i.e. a supplement to the public school on educational or religious grounds, among others. There was calming around the private schools again. Then this government – the Right/Fremskrit party government together with the Left and Christian People’s Party – has changed the private school law again by opening up so-called profile schools and private vocational training. Although the form is milder and the use of words is milder, the result is quite clear: with the two new foundations on which this government is now operating, they are so vague and so well-known that it actually opens up to schools that compete directly with the common school. Profile schools – and I hope the Council of State will take a closer look at this – are schools that will offer depression in e.g. real science, sport, art or music, and the then Minister of Knowledge, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, highlighted the desire for so-called real-time upper secondary education as one of the reasons for changing the private school law. The fasitator is that we haven't got a real-time college, we haven't got a lot of private secondary schools that offer professional education, but we've gotten a growth in profile schools and sports schools. Profile schools can be almost anything, and they don't have to be different from public school by more than two hours a week – so the subject content just needs to be different from the public school by two hours a week. Then there's direct competition with the primary school. If you look at the results, there have been 20,000 new private schools, 147 new private schools, in Norway under Erna Solberg's leadership. In Hordaland, every fourth high school is private. Up to 16 pst. by the students there goes to private school. Many of these private schools are, in whole or in part, owned by the same owner. It's going in a very clear direction, and even if we're not going to call the alarm right now, progress is alarming. The more pupils you get in private schools, the greater the threat to the community school and to popular governance of the school structure in the municipalities. One also weakens the most important arena we have for students to learn about common values, across social, ethnic and economic backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2973	President, we're almost done, and you're getting ready for ManU tonight, so I'll do it fast. There were three questions that were the starting point for today's interpellation. Can the Council of State report on the development of a large number of new private schools in the country? That's the first question. This was devalued by the Minister, although the speech from the Statistical Central Bureau is quite unambiguous. I have to say I'm a little disappointed with her who has been standing here on the pulpit earlier today and knocked herself on the chest and said that her party is the primary school mother – that she doesn't take this development seriously anymore. The second question was whether the Council of State was not afraid of developments. It was obvious that she was not. I can just shake my head and say, as the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg also said, that they have had a development in our neighboring country. The government parties have previously been very concerned with Swedish states. They should also be with regard to the school policy that has been conducted in Sweden, because that is a development we do not want. In this city we see that schools are established based on religion. I think that's a loss for Norwegian students because they don't get to meet students who have a different cultural and religious background, in their everyday school life. I think we have a lot to learn from each other, and the diversity that we have in common school, we have to take care of. But then we have to protect it. Then we must have a political leadership in the country that wants to protect this. I saw no clear sign from the Council of State that she was willing to do so. That, I must say, was disappointing by the New Council of the Left. Nor did the example of Overhalla make the impression – a municipality that has thus received millions less to travel with because they have received a private school. This is what the municipalities around Norway stand in with both feet well planted. It is a development that I hope the minister will not devalue in the future, but is willing to look into. I have not had much hope of that today, but I would still ask her to look at these figures again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e2990	I will start by making sure Tvedt Solberg that I come at least every time. I'm going to be here to discuss this, but I think maybe it symbolizes that you don't think it's the biggest challenge in Norwegian school right now, that we have some private. I think you have a slightly strange relationship with numbers when in six years it's 14 yes and 52 no, and you make it like a rush. Of course it's going to be an increase from 2 pst. to 3 pst. like huge. After all, I'm the party leader in the left. I know it can be a huge increase, but it's still just going to be 3 pst. No matter how much you twist and flip it. I also think it is special to compare ourselves with Sweden, because we have never had a law similar to the Swedish legislation on fresh oils. They've had a completely different law, a completely different control system. Similarly, Danish legislation has been different, and they have also had a very different control system associated with their school. Denmark has a high school system where only parents carry out quality control, and where we do not have the control that we have with the approval of curricula and other things. So this is to compare very different factors, if we're going to compare with the Nordic countries. Yes, the left has been the mother of the primary school. That's our project. It's always been our project to work for education and that everyone should have a similar starting point in school, but we've also been a party that has elevated human rights high. It is absolutely essential that people should be entitled, in any regime, including in a democracy like Norway, to choose a school different from the one that the state offers. It is a human right that I will fight for, whether it is in China, Russia, Norway, Sweden or where it should be. It's a fundamental right that every parent has in our law. I will end by saying that there are some stereotypes about how fresh oils are, which at least don't match everyone. In Oslo was one of the first religious schools of St. Sunniva, the Catholic school. It began in the 1920s and 1930s when we got the first Italian immigrants to Oslo. It's among the more multicultural schools we have, and among the more multireligious. It's a clear Catholic school that values very strongly having different life views in each classroom, and they value that everyone should learn to tolerate different ways of life and different beliefs. It's not as categorical and as stereotyped as SV here is trying to make it as.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-27.ana.ud46e3001	The debate on substance is closed. So 11 is over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
