ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e57	The representatives of Torhild Bransdal, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and Eva Kristin Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative, Runar Seestad, from 3 to 12 November and on the leave of the representative, Mr Jette F. Christensen, from 3 to 12 November in connection with the participation of the European Council parliamentary assembly in the parliamentary elections in Georgia by the Green Group in the Greens/European Parliament on welfare leave for the representative of Une Bastholm on Tuesday 3 November. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark: Steinar Karlstrøm For Hordaland: Linda Monsen Merkesdal For Oslo: Per Espen Stoknes
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e114	Steinar Karlstrøm, Linda Monsen Merkesdal and Per Espen Stoknes are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e125	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e130	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Karin Andersen, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself to ensure equivalent and good rehabilitation services throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e135	The representative, Mr Solfrid Lerbreck, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e140	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representative of Nicholas Wilkinson and myself to secure assistance for children during long-term hospital stays. Then I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of the representative of Audun Lyssbakken and myself to correct errors in the legislation that lead to misappropriation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e147	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e165	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e182	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e189	Today we have to treat Prop. 66 L for 2019-2020. It's an aggregate proposition, dealing with several different themes. We're dealing with parts of this proposition before summer. It applied to chapters 9, 10, 12, 14 and 16. The other chapters are for treatment today. Chapter 3 proposes changes to the take-off obligation. Chapter 4 proposes the criminalisation of non-judicial marriages. Non-judicial forced marriages are proposed in the same way as formal forced marriages. Chapter 5 proposes an assessment of the desirability of clarifying the condition of undue pressure in Section 253 of the Criminal Code. Chapter 6 proposes a clarification that attempts to purchase sex are punishable. This became unclear by new criminal law. Chapter 7 proposes a penalty order for the rental of premises used for the gross exploitation of workers. Chapter 8 proposes several legislative changes that extend the protection of criminal law against discrimination. Chapter 11 proposes that repeated or severe illegal possession of weapon parts be affected by the provisions of the Criminal Code on firearms and ammunition. Chapter 13 refers to changes in the criminal code on violations of representatives of foreign countries. Chapter 15 proposes amendments to the rules on limitation. And finally, Chapter 17 proposes the use of certain coercive measures in some minor offences, as was possible under old criminal law. This is a proposition with a lot of different themes. I thank the Committee for its good cooperation. It was necessary to break up this proposition, at least it is quite clear, but there are several important proposals that have come from the government and are followed up by the committee. But in some areas, we have a majority in the committee and in this room that goes a little further than the government originally assumed in its proposition. In particular, this applies to the defrosting obligation. It is also about making parents responsible for gender mutilation and forced marriage. The original provision proposed by the government had not clearly assigned the responsibility to parents and to those who care for the child daily. It will be the majority for today, and it is very pleased with the Progress Party. It's a matter we've been fighting for for for many years, and I think it's absolutely necessary if we're to bring these horrors to life, stop sexual mutilation and prevent rape. The parents must then also be held responsible. There is also a majority to investigate sanctions against religious communities that violate the penalty against forced marriage. It is also one thing The Progress Party has worked for over time. Especially at one point, history is being written today. A majority in this Chamber will today vote for a ban on sibling childhood. It is not necessarily inherently related to this proposition, but it was in the handling of the matter. The Progress Party has put forward a proposal for a representative to this effect, namely the ban on sibling childhood, before the summer. So instead of waiting for the treatment that would then normally be given in the new year, it is a majority today who adopts the ban on sibling childhood. For the Progress Party, it's one thing we've been working for for for almost 20 years. The first time the Progress Party proposed such a ban in Stortinget was back in 2002. I myself made proposals for such a ban in 2005, together with our party leader, Siv Jensen. So this has been an old battle cause for the Progress Party, for which we are finally getting an impact today. It's very enjoyable, and it shows that it's useful to work over time to get through to politics. Then I register that there are some other parties that are trying to take credit for it, and that's for the best, but it's important to remember the story in this case. On Monday 19 October something special happened. It happened in Kongsberg, and there was a family father who was visited by four policemen at the door. He was visited because he had hung up pictures of Muhammed and was asked by the police to take these pictures down. This father refused to do so, he said he hung up those images to show his solidarity with France, with Samuel Paty, the teacher who was killed in Paris because he showed drawings of Muhammad to his class. I raised this question with the Minister of Justice, and I am very pleased that she made it very clear that it is not the task of the police to remove posters hanging up in the public room, regardless of the message. That's good. In retrospect, the police have also complained about this incident. But we see at the same time this happens several places in the country. We have one about not quite analogous, but similar event in Bergen. We have a similar incident on Røros. It has actually generated a never so small opposition, a demonstration over that quite country. In many cities and many places, images of the prophet Muhammad are hung up to show solidarity with France and to show the importance of freedom of expression. It is, I believe, necessary in our time. I do not support the individual actions, but it is necessary to stand up and defend freedom of expression. Words shall meet with words; they shall not meet with punishment. You have to be able to say what you want, as long as you don't pose threats, as long as you don't commit illegalities. In Norway, there is a risk of getting the police on the doorstep, because the police have probably not understood their social mission in all situations. We have teachers who barely dare to teach about freedom of speech, editors, journalists and cartoonists who openly admit that they are afraid to express themselves critically against Islam. It is put together in a situation where we feel that in the United Nations it is working effectively to equate racism and religious criticism, a challenge that is most real, and where we as legislators and as guarantors of the Constitution must say from. Freedom of expression is our first and last chance. It's a foundation, the foundation of the entire democratic society we have. We must have freedom of expression. It is in the perspective of the Progress Party that problems arise and today proposes to repeal the Penal Code § 185. So there's reason to be careful with everything that limits freedom of expression. We will stand in front, defend the Constitution § 100. Freedom of expression shall also include opinions which the majority do not like, or even find objectionable. We have also seen a development in which we have got a lower threshold to apply the penal code § 185. A recent example is a 71-year-old lady who was convicted of calling a woman with an immigrant background for cockroaches on Facebook. We also have examples that the police – and perhaps the police director – do not fully have the basic understanding in all situations of freedom of expression and the protection and defence of it. It is also particularly true that protection against hateful expressions is only defined for defined minorities. That is, the law is not equal to everyone. There is a reason that Mrs. Justice, the goddess of justice, is blind, for the law must be equal to everyone. But as the design of Section 185 is today, it is not. The Progress Party is proposing today to lift the Penal Code. Then I come back to this debate, which is probably going to be going on for a while, but I bring this up with all the proposals where the Progress Party is proposing, and at the same time ask that the Progress Party's proposal to repeal Section 185 of the Penal Code be set against the majority's proposal to extend the provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e221	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e226	I want to start by thanking the case manager for a good job and I agree that it was reasonable to deal with this large aggregation proposition in two parts. There's a lot of agreement in today's setting, and I'm very happy about that. Many of the welcome decisions that are being followed up here today have their origins in suggestions from, among others. Working party. It is important that a mass mass clearly emphasizes that forcibleness is a serious violation of human freedom, and that an abstinence will be a clear signal that society does not accept forcibleness or inaction from people who are familiar with a close-kept coercion. It is very important that Section 303 on gross sexual intercourse with children between 14 and 16 years of age is now included in the fight against it. This involves very serious and serious violations and is clearly at the heart of the fight against them. It is also important that the need to combat sexual mutilation ensures that the compulsory restraint should apply to all, not only to targeted professionals. Incorporating the sexual mutilation obligation in the penal code § 196 will oblige more people to avert sexual mutilation, and such regulation will also imply that the closest family has a deterrent obligation. A joint committee also indicates that there are a number of other offences which are not covered by the deterrence obligation under the penal code § 196, and the Committee calls on the government to assess whether the deterrence obligation should be extended to cover several criminal offences. The Labour Party believes that much more should and can be done in the fight against social control and honorary power. We have previously made a number of suggestions, in Document 8:118 two years ago, because several of the proposals did not get multiples. The Labour Party has re-issued more than 15 proposals which are now under consideration in the Municipal Committee, proposals which the Labour Party believes are very important in the fight against social control and honorary election. In this setting, we will re-submit six proposals from the former representative. We bring them here today together with both the SV and the Center Party, and a proposal also with the Center Party and the Progress Party. I think it's important to, for example. the tools used by the police, such as PATRIARK and SARA, are now used in all police districts. Unfortunately, we still have examples that partnardrap is happening in Norway, where we later know that the risk tools that are there are not used. I am surprised why not a proposal that I feel we are a few about, today we have several numbers. We also believe that we need to have a survey of how the security assessments of the police function in matters based on social control and honour-related choices, that the need for protection is ensured before the assessments are completed, and that there should be a deadline for the assessment of security and the provision of safe housing for those who break with their family. There is not a good enough overview of the scope when it comes to social control. So we ask the government to acquire more knowledge about this. We also want to have national guidelines for dealing with issues where children do not meet at school, and where there is reason to believe that children may be sent out of the country against their will. I think it's a shame that not the suggestions get multiples today. Then it is gratifying, as the case-speaker says, that the proposal that a threat society should be penalised that does not comply with the prohibition against forced marriage is now getting several – co-consulted – in the Stortinget. This is a proposal that has one important goal for the eye: that everyone who lives in Norway should have the same dishes, the same protection from society. Everyone shall marry whomever he pleases, and shall not be subjected to coercion or shame. Two years ago, the Labour Party proposed to ban sibling childhood. So it's not right for the Progress Party representative to claim that they've been on their own in this fight. Quite rightly, the Labour Party received support from the Progress Party two years ago, and I am pleased that today we are receiving support from the Centre Party. This proposal means a lot, and we think it's a principle proposal. Even if one might be missing an overview of the extent, which the government party seems to be the most busy, so think this is essentially important if it was just two people. Nor is it the case that there is a very high degree of uncertainty associated with health challenges for children. Here is a research and reports, among others. from the National Health Institute back in 2007. Much international research has been carried out to show that there is an increased incidence of stillbirth, congenital malformations and infant mortality, and lower average birth rate in children of siblings. The Labour Party and I are therefore quite a few with Sandra Bruflot, recently alumni of the Young Right and member of the Right Programme Committee, who think this is about freedom from the press about marrying a sibling child, a freedom perhaps many are waiting for. She says it's time to make this happen, and it's time for the politicians to be involved in the peace campaign. Well, the Right is not in that peace fight today, although everyone knows that this proposal is being agreed today. That's why I want to encourage the Right to vote for what they might actually be for, even if they want a scope poll. The government has not followed up the entire appeal decision that arises from a proposal from the Labour Party when it relates to forced marriage and the need to clarify ‘irreprehensible pressure’. Here, the Red-Green parties are showing the soundtracks of both the Police Directorate, the UDI, the Oslo Police District and the West Police District, which support the proposal to clarify this. Therefore, we propose a clarification in new Section 253 of the Penal Code. There's a common proposition, and there's a lot of things to think about, and maybe not always so neatly structured on my post, but it's one thing for the Labour Party that it's also going to be agreed today that it's criminal to rent out locals that are used for social dumping. This will capture punishable cases that cannot be punished under today's law. It is also one that says to the Labour Party that today it is decided to strengthen the protection of trans-persons and others who have a gender identity or a gender expression that violates the expectations of the environment, and that this is now followed up by the government. As it is today, homosexuals, but not transhumances, have criminal protection if they are subjected to discrimination, hateful expressions or hate crime, including violence. This will be an important part of the debate today. I am not surprised that the Progress Party does not see that minorities may have a need for protection against discrimination not all have. It's an engineered debate to start talking about the law not being the same for everyone. In Norway, there has been a great deal of agreement – at least among most parties – that it is important to have protection against discrimination against vulnerable groups. Maria Aasen-Svensrud from my party will elaborate further on the Labour Party later in the debate. Finally, I am pleased that a number of changes have also been proposed in the penal code on retirement, and I recommend the setting, which the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e270	The penal code sometimes feels like a refurbishment project. It must be maintained and patched all the time. Sometimes we have to tear down old parts, sometimes we have to modernise parts of the law. Today we fix some old faults, which we have known for a while. We are strengthening the law in some important areas, and we are modernising it in the face of new serious societal problems. I want to mention the criminalisation of religious coercion, the gross exploitation of workers, and not least the fight against the most serious crime committed against children. Today, a total amount of money is sending out a clear message: those who allow gross crime to happen to children without intervention must be held accountable. This applies to all, now also parents and special caregivers. No one shall be able to push the law forward as an excuse for inaction in the face of the evil that these acts constitute. I would also like to make a few brief comments on the proposal to strengthen the protection of trans-persons and others with a different gender perspective. It is absolutely necessary and right to give minorities additional protection. It is a good tradition in Norway and, unfortunately, it has become absolutely necessary to adopt it today. Unfortunately, there are trans-persons in Norway, and we as legislators have a responsibility to protect small groups that we believe should be able to express themselves in every way without being exposed to this kind of crime. At the same time, it is very important to stress that freedom of expression should always be strong. We see trends in other countries, where the debate on this goes further than just breaking down on the hate. We see examples of the use of criminal law as an instrument, as a means, in what needs to be referred to as an activistic struggle to promote an ideology that conflicts very quickly with both freedom of expression and freedom of religion. That's why it's important that we stress here today that it's the hateful, unlawful statements that we're making today criminal. Religious statements and statements that cannot reasonably be stamped as hateful enjoy the same level of protection of freedom of expression as before, and that must be the case. The government and the government parties are pleased that the vast majority of the proposition being dealt with today has a majority. At the same time, we have to admit that there is a point where we are not on the majority side, and that is on the issue of banning sibling childhood. I would like to briefly explain my view of this matter. This is not a new debate, it is an old debate. I think everyone in this room has at some point been involved in debates on this difficult issue. Nor is it a secret that the Right Programme Committee has unanimously proposed a ban on sibling childhood. Then I understand that the Storting has gradually been hastened to adopt requests for this. This is not surprising – a ban has probably been in force over time. But it's now that we in the Right prefer to take the time needed for a thorough party treatment, a thorough legal investigation, complete the research that is currently going on, and perhaps also that the voters can be more involved in this issue in view of the next harvest – in the big shot. A ban will not come overnight either, even if we adopt it here today. However, the signal from Stortinget is clear, and that should of course be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e283	There's a lot of both in the proposition, in which there's unanimity, and in which the Center Party is forming a majority for here today, which is very important, and which is well-founded by the speakers before me. There's a development now in these issues in Stortinget that is very positive, where I feel that we're going in the same direction. But I'd like to underline what's the basic behind these individual questions that we're dealing with, which we have to work with even better. It's that in some cultures it's not individual choices, personal choices, of girlfriends that apply, but who you're going to be with, who you're going to marry, is a matter of big family, clan, etc. and is about the family's interests. Usually this happens by means of arranged marriages, which have different degrees of volunteering, but there is a large grey zone against coercion within what is called arranged marriage. I have been involved in legal proceedings, including: about a boy who was killed and killed in Oslo South because he was with the wrong girlfriend, where it was evidence that it was common for brothers to watch who you are your girlfriend with, and that it is not the individual's concern. The same is described elsewhere in the city — that young people know too little about this and relate to the tradition of the family. We have seen from a report from the SSB, which came in February this year, on marriage patterns in Norway, that in some of the largest cultures from other countries of origin, the marriage pattern has actually evolved, in my opinion, in the wrong direction – between 1 pst. and 4 pst. married to someone with a Norwegian background, and that proportion has actually fallen slightly since the first generation. Those SSB numbers came as I said this year. I believe that there are many indications that we have come too short in terms of getting a development where there is free choice of partners for all in Norway. Then I believe that what has been recorded when I have been visiting the Stovner Police Station, with those who are working on this, concerns this with psychological and social pressure, i.e. a moving transition towards what is being forced, is experienced as something you cannot get away from, but that is not abduction or the kind of thing you normally associate with forced marriage. I know that there is a judgment in the Supreme Court in one case that has taken into account that punishment for such types of pressure can be imposed, but that judgment has special conditions, etc. The recommendation that we have received, which also Mrs Lene Vågslid, was made here, both from the Police Directorate and from the Oslo Police District, which are the most involved in this, and from the Foreign Directorate and the West Police District, is to add this with sustained mental or social pressure to what is said about the undue pressure associated with forced marriage. It's hard for me to understand why not everyone can be a part of it. The reason for the government parties not to be involved in it seems to me to be thin, because you write that you want to bind up the definition of ‘irregular pressure’ by mentioning the two phenomena that involve a lot, but it says ‘including’, and that doesn’t mean that you tie it up, if it’s also relevant in other contexts. I think it's a pity that we couldn't go in for it, because there's a great need to move on in the struggle for freedom that children and young people in these environments need us to support, and to clarify this and to get it clearly stated in the law as well. The same applies to the proposal for decisions on certificates of formality and non-compulsory checks, which are linked to arranged marriages and their conclusion. It is promoted by what is a majority in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, a proposal that I think it is quite incomprehensible that no majority in the Storting agrees with, because you can say that you can hit these things with other parts of the law. But it's twisted and complicated. There are some things that we need to put into the law to be understood by the citizens of Norway, and in particular they are understood by those affected by that phenomenon. We have to try to do things that are needed in these environments, and that's why I think it's an important proposal that there's a majority for here, but maybe not in the room afterwards. I just want to correct the proposal for a decision. It concerns point VIII of the opinion delivered by the Committee. It was set out in the Committee to ‘prohibit sibling childhood’, but it has not been set up. It says ‘prohibiting’. ‘Prohibiting Sibling Childhood’ is a correction made by the Committee which must be a technical error in its voting. There must be consistency between the text of the suspension and the proposal for a decision itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e300	We are dealing with a very comprehensive matter today that deals with a number of issues. I think it has been a good legal process, and I would like to congratulate the case-rapporteur Per-Willy Amundsen. We rarely agree politically, but here I think he has done a good job and done a good job of bringing together the Committee, so that in essential areas we have an overall committee in these areas. Interestingly, in many of these proposals, the Storting turns inward towards families and seeks to create a better legal standard, also to criminalise domestic relationships within families, and I think that is an important and interesting legal development in Norway. So there are points here that we might not dream of debating, or legalizing, maybe 15-20 years ago. So it's a good lawmaking process and a good dynamic development in the way Stortinget works with these points. In general, therefore, there is considerable consensus: an extension of the abolition obligation is very important, the protection of trans-nationals is long-awaited, and, of course, measures against forced marriage. With regard to the point of sibling childhood, I believe that here we are making a somewhat hasty decision. I'll come back to it in my next post. Then maybe, until now, the Central Party representative Jan Bøhler, I would warn against making these points an immigration debate. I'm very concerned that the things that we are now deciding today are going to be completely independent of whether there are Norwegian or minority families that are doing this. And I think we're weakening the basis, and also the legal basis, for these issues if they're interpreted so that these legislative processes are linked to hitting certain minority environments. So I want to warn you that we're talking about this in such a way, and rather view this as significant challenges regardless of cultural background. With regard to the abolition of violence against children, and especially in the case of sexual mutilation, the Committee agrees that there should be zero tolerance for sexual mutilation and violence against children – of course – and there is an important criminal law principle that we are establishing today, and it gives very important signals. At the same time, such a decision requires a certain degree of sensitivity, and we have to dry down to ask ourselves how to get such a law decision to work according to purpose. I have recently met with the Change Factory, an institution in Norway that works with children who have been subjected to abuse, and what they say is quite outrageous. They say that precisely because the law against child abuse is strict already today, there are very many children who hold back from reporting on what is happening. If these kids get to know, either by teacher or by child protection, that dad can go to jail if they tell you about it, yeah, kids don't tell me about it. I am concerned that we should stick to the principles, but at the same time we must be alert and observe in the long term how this will turn out. It may be that when we make a law decision today, and we also impose a ban on sexual mutilation, we actually get fewer reports on this, rather than more. It doesn't mean that I disagree with what we're going to do today -- I totally agree with it -- but at the same time, I think we have to observe the development around this, and the Storting must also be willing to find any other way to see how we might do this in a different way, or follow it up in a different way. In fact, the change factory is going so far that they have asked me as a growth representative to make a case in Stortinget to see if there can be alternative criminal reactions to domestic abuse, so that you can get the level of reporting from just these children. So I'm concerned, when it comes to extending the severance obligation to families, that we don't have to limit this just to practices that are known to be done by minority communities. In order for the abolition obligation here to be seen as both relevant and legitimate, it is essential for me that it be linked to all crimes and all kinds of domestic violence and abuse, regardless of whether there are minority cultures or others that do. And I hope that this amendment of the law will be interpreted just like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e319	Would the representative like to comment on SV's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e324	Yes, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e329	The representative Petter Eide then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e335	Many of the proposals we are considering today help to strengthen criminal law protection for vulnerable people, including those who are vulnerable. for children and young people and for persons with a different sexual identity or orientation. I am very pleased that a joint committee agrees that the removal obligation should cover several violations against children, and that the removal obligation should cover several – including close family members. Any person who has information that a child is being abused should be obliged to report to the school, child protection, health care and police so that the abuses can be halted. The proposal to extend the prohibition of coercion to non-marital marriage is also supported by a unanimous committee. It is important that this is treated in a non-discriminatory way and affected by the prohibition of coercion. The left has been skeptical of a ban on sibling childhood in the debate on forced marriage. Parents who pressure their children to marry their siblings will also put pressure on them to marry. A debate on the prohibition of sibling childhood must have a medical justification and not be discriminatory. I note, however, that a majority of the Stortinget now wants to ban sibling childhood. Several legislative changes are proposed here aimed at strengthening the criminal protection of trans-Europeans and others who have a gender identity or a gender expression that violates the expectations of the environment. It is proposed to add gender identity or gender expression as a basis for discrimination in a number of paragraphs of the Penal Code. With this proposal, transactors will also enjoy the same protection as other vulnerable groups, which are already protected by today's regulations, inter alia. on hateful expressions. Hateful statements addressed to persons belonging to vulnerable groups do not only have consequences for the individual directly affected. Hateful statements can help vulnerable groups to withdraw and leave behind public vocabulary, leave behind participation in society – that people stay at home, within the four walls of the house. Hateful statements keep lives in prejudices and can lead to increased contradictions, and ultimately motivates to legitimize grosser criminal acts. That's why these law changes we're making today are very important. I record that someone is concerned that the new provision on hateful expressions based on gender identity or gender expression will affect Christian preaching. I would like to stress that freedom of expression, freedom of belief and freedom of religion are strong, and that the provision is not intended to restrict the interpretations and expressions of religious texts by religious communities. Discrimination is to be punished, not religious statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e350	I Prop. 66 L is proposed for a number of changes to the penal code, and I would like to comment on just a few. Since the entry into force of the Penal Code of 2005, attempts to purchase sexual services are not punishable by the design of the provision. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the repeal of the provision now in order to clarify that attempts to purchase sexual services are punishable in light of the seriousness of the crime. Controlling the demand for prostitution is an important measure to combat trafficking in human beings. Therefore, clarifying the criminality of attempts to sell sexual services is an important contribution to the fight against the abolition of trafficking in human beings. I Prop. 66 L is proposed to include gender identity and gender expression as a basis for discrimination in criminal law. The Christian People's Party wants the protection of all people and minority groups in society who are subjected to bullying, hateful expressions or harassment. The Christian People's Party has been critical of whether the proposal could have other unintended consequences. The concern of many in this matter has been what the proposal means for freedom of expression, religion and conscience. Many have been concerned that preaching and teaching from the Bible and having a view of sex as a purely biological matter can lead to a fall in the determination and thus to a risk of punishment. The Christian People's Party has worked hard to ensure this freedom of expression, religion and conscience in this matter. We are pleased that because of the work and cooperation of the Christian People's Party, it now follows from the preparatory work of the penal law that freedom of expression, faith and religion is strong, and that the provision of the penal law is not intended to restrict the interpretations and expressions of religious texts of the religious communities. Therefore, the protection of freedom of expression should not be affected. It is the lawless discrimination that is to be punished, not religious opinions. It is only statements that encourage or endorse the violation of the integrity of trans-persons, and statements that involve a serious downgrading of the human dignity of trans-persons, which will be affected by the penal code. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that, in its consultation, Norway's national human rights institution pointed out that a change in the protection of discrimination in criminal law, set up against religious practice, would be a problem that could be put to the fore to a small extent. Norway’s national human rights institution pointed out that in its practice, the Supreme Court has established that service and textual exclusion are not protected by the provision. This provision is intended to qualify for hateful opinions aimed at some on the basis of the affiliation of the protected grounds of discrimination. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the amendment of the law protects transpersons from hateful expressions, while ensuring freedom of expression and belief. The Christian People's Party would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer to our written question in the matter. We will continue to fight for a healthy and good debate climate in Norway, where we have zero tolerance for hateful and grossly offensive statements about people based on who they are. Proposition also makes a number of changes to criminal law rules on limitation. The background for this was, among other things, that in the 2005 Criminal Code, the criminal framework for several offences was lowered because the criminal responses ordered by the law would be better in line with the actual level of penalties. However, this led to a shorter limitation period for some offences. The Christian People's Party believes that rules on outlawed custody and extended limitation periods are of high importance in order to ensure that victims of both sexual offences and other serious violations are adequately protected. Repeated examples show that children who are exposed to such actions are often far inside adulthood before they are able to tell about their actions. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Stortinge suggests that the government should take an overall review of these rules. Violence and sexual abuse against our children and young people are one of the most cruel things that exist, and we politicians have a great responsibility to do what we can to protect our children and young people. A good childhood lasts life, but unfortunately it is that a bad childhood can actually last for generations. We have to work together to help more people, and I am happy that we are today together on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e371	I am very pleased that the government's various proposals have received broad support in the Justice Committee. The Proposition follows up a number of request decisions and some action plans, as well as unintended consequences of the entry into force of the Penal Code 2005. Some of the proposals were adopted by the Stortinget in June. It is good that the remaining proposals are now being followed up. A common denominator for many of the proposals is that they help to strengthen the criminal protection of vulnerable persons, such as children and young people, persons with a different sexual identity or orientation and vulnerable workers. The government is particularly concerned that children and young people should have strong and clear criminal protection against violence and other violations. Both the proposed changes to the compulsory withdrawal and the changes to the rules on limitation contribute to strengthening this protection. Anyone aware that a child is being abused should be obliged to report from school, to child protection or to the police so that the abuses can be halted. It is therefore appropriate that a Joint Committee endorses the proposal that the elimination obligation should cover several infringements affecting children. Combating social control is an important priority for the government. It is therefore important for the government that the proposal to extend the prohibition of coercion to non-marital marriages is supported by a unanimous committee. Out-of-court forced marriages may in practice be seen as as being as binding as formal forced marriages. Forcing someone to enter into such a marriage relationship is therefore a serious interference with the individual’s freedom and independence, which should be punishable. It is also important that people who belong to vulnerable groups in society are well protected by criminal law, including criminal law. against hateful expressions. The government wants an inclusive democracy that promotes dialogue, freedom of expression and diversity, and has developed its own strategy against hateful expressions, which was presented in 2016. With this proposal, transpersons will have the same protection as other vulnerable groups, which are already protected by the provision on hateful expressions. There is no doubt that the many changes currently being addressed are important to strengthen criminal law protection for vulnerable groups. I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough consideration of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e388	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e393	For the Workers' Party, it is important to put in place a ban on sibling childhood. Last time we put forward proposals, two years ago, Right-wing voted against, and clearly signaled in the setting that one will do it again today, despite what Peter Frölich has said, that the programme committee of the Right proposes a ban, and that competent Right-wing politicians are wise to say why a ban is right. It is also the case that what we are proposing today is a call for proposals. We're asking the government to do that. There is no direct legislative proposal in Stortinget. So why couldn't one not vote for this, even if one thinks it's important to get a grip on the scale? Does the Council of State think it is important that a person has a concrete number of how many people are in debt, before a principle can decide on such a question?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e400	I think I will admit very clearly that I think this is a difficult question. Prohibiting siblinghood has very good reasons. But that's also how to forbid two adults to marry, you should have very good reasons for that. That is why we have said from the government that we are now making thorough assessments of this, among other things. related to the medical profession. If you can think medically that someone should not marry, you have good reasons to forbid it. So the question is, if you can't assess that this medicine is not recommended, should you still be able to ban it because it will prevent other types of abuse? These are difficult assessments. We've told the Granavolden platform that we're going to go into this thoroughly. So let's do that. But because we don't have the answer to this question, it's not going to vote for it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e407	I respect it. At the same time, some thorough research has been carried out on the health challenges associated with children of siblings. The Public Health Institute did so in 2007. We have international research that shows the same thing. What health research my government council lacks? For the available research we have, clearly point to the negative impact on the children. And the second, I'm going to challenge again that the Storting here is asking the government to ban sibling childhood. Why can't the government in this matter, as in very many other cases, clearly signal from the Storting that one wants a ban, but then on the premises that Right today prepares? It would have been completely unproblematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e414	It is true that when a request decision – as today – is given a majority, the government will follow it up. But the government is therefore of the opinion that we need further documentation, we need further research. It's in progress, and we're not taking a position on this pending. And even though different parties have different programming processes going on, and certainly they're going to conclude with this before the big shot, the government is basing itself on the Granavolden platform, and based on that, the parties vote like they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e419	Finally, it can be mentioned that the Stortinge has the opportunity to adopt specific penalties if you feel the need to do so, and feel that the government does not deliver on its proposals. My question is about something quite different: The night by Friday two caricatures were hung up by the prophet Muhammad on windows in a mosque in Bergen. This mosque is the largest in Bergen, the hometown of the Council of State. Police attorney Farzad Izadi says that the police have established an investigation case after the paragraph on reckless conduct, Section 266 of the Criminal Code. Few of us believe that if anything similar had happened to a Christian church, it would have received the same attention from the police. I think that shows a problem to which this government should perhaps take a clearer position. My question to the Council of State is: Does she think this is a good priority of police resources, all the time serious criminal proceedings are being ordered?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e428	In principle, it is that I do not give priority to the police – nor should I – and in the case of the case in Bergen, I know it only from publicity in the media. But let me highlight two things: firstly, I perceive that there is a big difference between the case in Bergen and the case in Kongsberg. In Bergen, the owner of the house has reported the relationship. It wasn't the situation at Kongsberg. When the owner of the house cites a violation and a criminal order, it is up to the police to assess whether it has actually happened. I totally disagree that it wouldn't happen if it had happened to a church. We had a situation related to the Archives in Kristiansand, where someone hung Nazi flags on an institution that works with human rights and documents what happened during World War II. It was taken very seriously by the police in Agder. So I don't think different religious communities or opinion societies are treated differently. This is a concrete assessment made by local prosecution, and we should not interfere.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e433	The majority's proposal for new provisions on the law on compulsoryity in criminal law reads as follows: ‘Incarceration up to 6 years shall punish the person who, in the event of violence, detention, other criminal or illegal behaviour or undue pressure, including sustained mental or social pressure, forces someone (a) to marry; (b) into a marriage-like relationship.’ The addendum proposed by the government at the hearing is ‘including sustained mental or social pressure’. What is the reason for the minority in the Committee, i.e. the government parties here in Stortinget, is that adding to the definition of ‘including sustained mental or social pressure’ is too much binding on the definition of coerciveness. But when we hear all the words that are used, and where one elaborates what can be in the form of undue pressure that is the most widespread, can the Council of State, better than one does in this setting, explain why she does not want to take in the deepening of the provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e446	I don't know if I can, but I can try. Using a lot of words doesn't mean using a lot more. The fact that something is unexplained can be cleaned up. Then the question is, is this unpresist? The information I've received from people who know this much better than myself is that various forms of qualified psychological and social pressure include this, and that it's a natural understanding. So it's unnecessary to add this to, not because you disagree, but simply because it's unnecessary. We should have a language of law that is clear and effective and that invites, as far as possible, interpretations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e451	I thank you for the answer, which is about the same thing as in the setting. But it's hard to understand, because there's the core of this kind of more undefined procedures to get their will in terms of who the children are going to marry me, this is about, while in terms of the other things, that pertain to violence, etc., it's very clear what's going on. There is one sentence where this has been used with undue pressure, which has gone all the way to the Supreme Court, and which happened under special conditions. So this has been used very little in Norwegian case law. In order to protect those who are subjected to this type of pressure, it is necessary for the legislator to clarify this issue and put more content into it, and to provide that explanation to the environment to which it relates. This is not a small matter. It worries me that there's only one case in court, and my experience is, as I talked about in my post, that this applies to a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e456	Just to emphasise: we do not disagree with the fact that undue pressure is also punishable, and that it also includes content, both psychological and social pressure. We fully agree with that. The question is whether it is necessary to put it in the law. That's where we disagree. We do not think this is necessary, because this is a natural understanding of language, but it may be a matter of disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e461	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e466	More and more lesbians, gays, biphiles and transpersons experience threats and hateful expressions. In addition, trans-persons have so far not been included in the penal code’s hate paragraph, although the Workers’ Party was given a majority in the Stortinget in May 2018. But now is the time for postponement, and we can finally get this in place. For as it is today, homosexuals, but not trans-persons, have criminal protection if they are subjected to discrimination, hateful expressions or other hate crime, including violence. A modern understanding of the relationship between sex, identity and sexuality combined with the actual experiences of the group challenging the traditional gender standard suggests that these grounds of discrimination should not be distinguished. And people with sexual expression and gender identity who challenge society's norms need obvious special protection. Several years ago, the majority in Stortinget decided that the government must include gender identity and gender expression in the paragraphs of the Penal Code. So while the government has been dealing with its theoretical exercises, people have been knocked down on the street. The police's own reports show that the number of reported cases of hate crime has increased dramatically in recent years. This has to end. The Labour Party believes that we need to strengthen police resources and competences in the prevention and prosecution of hate crime and hateful opinions across the country. Political governance is necessary in order for the police to have competence in this area. When the Workers' Party was in power, the police were given marshmallows that all police districts were to be schooled and gained authority when it came to hate crime. This has not been continued by the right-wing government until now eight state councils. It is in place with boasts to the Oslo police district, which prioritises the work against hate crime. The hate-crime group at the Manglerud Police Station is making sure that this work is lifted significantly. But that's not enough. This type of crime is not just an Oslo phenomenon. All police districts need to be strengthened in order to be able to work with this subject. From previous reports, we know that a significant proportion of those who commit hate crime are young. Not only does it benefit to punish, it also has to be prevented. This means that schools must take clear responsibility for disseminating knowledge and developing attitudes compatible with democracy, equivalency and the security of minorities. The fact that ‘homo’ is the most common shell word in school is an illustration of the need for action. The measures need to be implemented early. Once attitudes have evolved to give rise to violence, bullying or threats, it has gone far too far. In addition, the measures must be of sufficient quality to prevent them from working against their purpose. Here, it is known that actions supported by stakeholder organisations often have a high impact and high quality. Examples of this are Rosa’s competence, where the FRI Association runs educational schemes based on the experience and competence of these environments over time. Unfortunately, these measures are underfunded and not well known in schools and in the voluntary sector. Now that we've recently seen footballers who reportedly don't know what the word "soper" means, it's a good example that we have a job to do in terms of public education and prevention. The king said it well when he summed up who we are, we who live in this country: Nordics are girls who are happy with girls, boys who are happy with boys, boys and girls who are happy with each other. People in this country are all unique, and each one of us deserves to walk safely on the street like the one we are. Unfortunately, some still need additional legal protection. Then it's our job as legislators to take care of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e487	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e492	There are many important changes in criminal law today, including some of the main integration challenges we face in Norway today. The party of progress has been alone in wanting to hit down on sexual mutilation, forced marriage and sibling childhood. For example, in 2002, we proposed for the first time a ban on sibling childhood, and today's rapporteur, Per-Willy Amundsen, proposed it again in 2005. It is simply not possible that cousins and cousins enter into marriage. We see that this is applied in some immigrant groups to control young people's choice of spouse, so that the family exercises considerable social control over young people. In addition, of course, there is the health aspect, which through generations has led to serious malformations in children and the resulting stress. By that I believe that we know enough to make a decision on this today, contrary to what I heard from the Minister of Justice. Prohibiting siblinghood is an important step to prevent forcibleness, but of course it is also about the freedom to choose who to marry. Gender mutilation, coercion and sibling childhood represent an unculture that does not belong in Norway. Many have for a long time failed to stand up for defenceless children and young people who are subjected to serious abuses and who are deprived of the possibility of a free life. When the Advance Party put in government, we finally started to work on the responsibility of children's parents for sexual mutilation and forcible marriage, but instead of making the parents responsible once and for all, the government chooses to submit a proposal that allows parents to actually get away with the responsibility of exodus. If a mother or a father does not prevent the child from undergoing sexual mutilation or coercion, there is no adequate excuse. It simply cannot be accepted, and in Norway it is the responsibility of the children not to be subjected to abuse or social control. I am very pleased that there is now finally a majority in the Grand Duchy to implement these very necessary restraints, which in reality means increased freedom for all those who live in this country. I think that's a value it's worth fighting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e505	I would like to make a comment, but also a type of explanation of vote on how SV stands for siblings. SV is going to vote against the proposal to ban sibling childhood today, not necessarily because we are opposed, but because I think the procedure has been very crooked. We also have a proposal from the Progress Party on this case, which was submitted earlier, for consideration in Stortinget in February. We had set up an internal round in my party where we also wanted to consult the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights on the basis of the timetable set up in the light of the proposals of the Progress Party. Then this matter was almost brought into this proposal, so that neither NIM nor we had the necessary handling of the matter. I believe that we are dealing with this matter on a very failing basis without the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights being heard, and without reference to how this is in relation to international conventions and our international obligations – in other words, on a very failing basis. Then we also register, cf. The last speaker, that instead of discussing this on a principle basis on sibling childhood, it makes it part of an immigration critique. I think it's very unfortunate that we're dealing with it this way. SV has been shared in the question. Of course, it may be that a prohibition of coerciveness can limit marriage and give men and women greater freedom to whom they are going to marry and establish a family. On the other hand, siblings can love each other and want to start a family with each other. What then? Then I believe that such a prohibition would be to limit the right to choose with whom to set up a family. These are values that we set very high, especially in terms of gender equality. Then I also believe that you mix it with marriage and that with children in the health debate. There can be no health challenges in getting married – can there be? So the prohibition must be that siblings should not have children together, regardless of whether they are married or not. I believe that this proposal revolves around some very important things – it is completely irrelevant to talk about the health challenges of marriage. What might be relevant to talk about are health challenges of having children. But then we're raising this debate to a completely different dimension, because there can be many who have children, where there can be significant health challenges by having children. How, then, should this be regulated? SV is going to vote against this, and we would have liked to have better time to deal with this properly and also listen to the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e520	I am pleased that freedom of expression is strong in Norway, and that we are clear here to the country that it is allowed to criticize religion, it is allowed to show the caricatures of Muhammad and to go very far in what you say. We are going to fight threats to freedom of expression, whether it is extremism that affects Charlie Hebdo or the teacher in Paris, or right-wing extremities that threaten violence and violence. We must also combat the daily threat to freedom of expression. We must fight against the fact that groups such as women, ethnic minorities and skews are forced out of the public debate precisely because of the heat and threats. A free debate presupposes that people can actually participate. If you read comment fields or social media today and see the heat of many being exposed, at least I believe there is no threat to freedom of expression if you ask people to step up. § 185 is also no threat to freedom of expression today. It sounds hollow when the Progress Party is talking about freedom of expression. The party of progress is most concerned with freedom of expression when it suits them, or when someone says something that the party of progress doesn't like. Then the party likes to threaten to deprive them of public support. Today, the representative Amundsen is doing his best to scare and create uncertainty about § 185 that is to protect against hateful expressions based on religion, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or now, transpersonries. Is it so that that paragraph prevents people from expressing themselves? I think it's worth listening to Anine Kierulf, a respected lawyer who says that the threshold is high to be hit by it. It hits the worst hateful opinions, and it is not the feeling of intrusion that some might feel themselves exposed to, but the possibility that hateful opinions may create hatred among other groups in the big society against the minorities, which are important. There is not much to suggest that today's paragraph against hateful performances has caused many to put on ties. Just watch the debate in social media. Here to the country, Sumaya Jirde Ali is a clear and clear voice that has often had to withdraw from the public due to extensive hoarseness. That her chronicles are absent, and that other voices are silent, should be regarded as a loss for all who want an enlightened debate, and for a well-functioning democracy in which everyone feels safe enough to participate. When the Progress Party claims that we can no longer say what we want, there is a claim paradoxically promoted by big business representatives who say what they want all the time, on a variety of platforms, and let me add: without necessarily making the public debate so much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e535	The fight against negative social control has many similarities with the fight against labour movement and the women's movement has fought before. It's the struggle for freedom to choose who you are, to love whom you want, and to become what you want. Negative social control creates difficult family relationships. It creates unsafe young people — yes, it creates a poorer society. If we're going to be able to create a society where everyone's free, we have to look at the reasons why someone's not free. Often, parents and the family exercise the negative social control, which shuts the girls in the girls' room, shuts them out of the world. A Fafo report on social control shows that negative social control decreases the longer parents live in and are part of Norway. We have to give parents the tools they need to raise their children without negative social control, and at the same time clearly tell them what we as a society expect. The most important thing we can do to combat negative social control is to strengthen integration in Norway. When the family does not accept it, society must stand there as a community to receive one. We need to give children and young people the courage to take the discussions with their own parents. The dream of free life in Norway is to facilitate society. Everyone who comes to Norway is going to be part of our big community. All in Norway should be able to choose whom to marry. That is why the proposals we are adopting today are so important. With the ban on siblings and the introduction of compulsory deportation, we are today sending out a clear signal that society does not accept forcibleness or inaction from people who are familiar with impending coerciveness. We fight for equality every day. Today we are yet another step closer to real freedom for all women and men. Real freedom is only available when you also have the opportunity to break out and walk in the ultimate sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e550	It was interesting to hear Mr. Henriksen's comments, which actually revealed what we all suspect the Workers' Party, namely that you don't understand enough, not deep enough, what freedom of expression is actually about. We've been demonstrating that for a long time. We got it demonstrated in 2006, when I was a fresh wholesaler. Then we were shown that we had a foreign minister, who is today the head of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, who almost apologized to the Arab world for the fact that the magazine and the editor, Vebjørn Selbeck, printed drawings of the prophet Muhammad. We got the same demonstration in 2009, when the same government, Stoltenberg, made suggestions for special protection of religious feelings. It was a direct intervention in freedom of expression. Fortunately, it was stopped. But it's a historical line that can be drawn by the Workers' Party's lack of understanding of freedom of expression. I believe that the representative Henriksen is also expressing this today, when one believes that freedom of expression is about having a place on the state budget. So it doesn't. This is not about money and funding – it is about the right to speak. The best intentions can get the worst results. That is the challenge we are now facing – which I addressed earlier today. When the police come and knock on the door because one has hung up a picture of the prophet Muhammad, one makes an experience – an experience we may not have experienced in Norway since 1945. So it's not going to be acceptable that there should be a police case to make statements. The case in Bergen we have to come back to. The spaces of expression and the boundary between what is lawful and what is so-called hot, intrusions, etc., flow. The decision taken in the Storting today will make it even more liquid. That's the problem. These limits cannot be clearly drawn, but the penal code § 185 has given the police and the courts the power to intervene in freedom of expression. That is the problem, and that is what the Workers' Party does not understand. Unfortunately, the rest of this room doesn't. Freedom of expression applies to all. The freedom of expression and the equality of law must be equal to everyone. However, what is adopted today – right against the votes of the Progress Party – is an extension of § 185, which gives some special groups other rights than the other citizens of this country. I think that's unfortunate, and that's not a good legal tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e564	The legal tradition Per-Willy Amundsen is talking about, in which case he will openly change his mind – when the Progress Party believes that no one else understands. If no other party in this room understands, maybe we should listen. I'm not sure. I think that what is happening here today is that we are fundamentally indisputable – fundamentally disunity in the arguments of the Advance Party and the way in which the Progress Party and Amundsen use freedom of expression when it suits them. I would recommend Amundsen to read the evening post today and Frank Rossavik's comment. When it comes to the debate on sibling childhood, we must respect the fact that the parties may find it difficult. I don't have a problem with that. At the same time, I agree with the speakers who have said that we know enough now. We know a lot when it comes to health consequences. Petter Eide is right even if I think he uses the wrong outline. This is not an immigration debate. It's one thing I think is unfortunate for the debate whether it's about social control, honorary election, or when we're talking about unculture, violation of criminal law. There is no debate on immigration. That's the same thing as who does it. The point is that the Storting is very clear that it is criminal law and is responsible for both social control and forced marriage. Yes, the prohibition against siblinghood is about coercion, arranged marriages, if it's pressure. It is also about health challenges. That SV should have had better time, they could mean. I would like to remind you that the Labour Party tabled the same proposal two years ago, in the same committee, which was also set up. I don't think the lack of time might not be the argument, but that one wants to check out more about the scope, etc., is getting an argument. I think we know enough, and I thought the Storting should send a clear signal today by asking the government to ban sibling childhood. We get it settled without the voices of everyone, even though I think there should be something that everyone could get behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e573	First, I just want to say that I can't really take over the criticism of the Progress Party on Freedom of Speech, a party that has had two Ministers of Justice who, on each side of the country, either burned newspapers or wanted boycott newspapers who wrote things they didn't like, a party that would draw support for a play because they said things the Progress Party didn't like, or asked an airline to draw a magazine because they wrote things the Progress Party didn't like. Today's campaign by the Progress Party is about abolishing the entire § 185, which provides vulnerable groups with protection against hateful expressions. The Progress Party clearly considers that the minority's desire to protect against hateful expressions is not reasonable because most of the problems, according to the majority of which the Progress Party is part, have been resolved or do not exist. There is a method to avoid discussing real content and changes or taking the unpleasant inwards, namely that both women and ethnic minorities are forced out of the debate, without the Progress Party appearing to be remarkably concerned about that. I want to ask a question to the Right. I react to the fact that the Right Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party are united on a note that refers to the way in which the debate on freedom of expression is held in other countries, namely Canada. They're afraid you could be punished if you could use the wrong personal pronoun to someone who defines themselves as a different sex. The right creates uncertainty about its own law, what we actually adopt today. Is it so that there are any indications in the law that it can be like the Right Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party today in Stortinget warns against? Is that the concern of Norway's human rights institution? Is that what their own Ministry of Justice and Defence is worried about? Is there any other heavy legal environment in Norway that is concerned about it? This is creating uncertainty about the law. In this way, the right undermines its own bill and strikes hard grain with the Progress Party in this matter. This is a criminal law debate on the protection of vulnerable groups. That's why I think it's either a misunderstanding or cynical attempt to turn the debate into something it's not about, that it should suddenly not be allowed to say what you mean, preach your religion or disagree with different definitions of gender and gender identity. It's obviously going to be allowed to do in the future as well. In this case, I actually rely on what the Ministry of Justice and Defence said, and therefore reacts to the uncertainty that the Right is involved in spreading in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e586	I wonder which planet the representative Henriksen has found in the last few years if he hasn't had the debate that's going on all over the Western world, about identity policy, which is just about restricting freedom of expression: everything from tearing down statues that you don't like, to discussing personal pronouns, whether to ban it or not to use the right or wrong pronoun – whatever it may be. It's a real debate, and it's a discussion that we with this law go into Norwegian case law. Then you could say that the wording adopted for § 185 today, hopefully not as bad as you've seen in Canada, the United Kingdom, etc. It's a hope. For, as I have pointed out, these are floating limits. Judicial practices change over time. The threshold will be lower to intervene. And there is no doubt that we have reached the point where § 185 conflicts with freedom of expression. It's a fact. It doesn't make sense to get away. It's very special that we have legislation where a girl, as was referred to here, who has a migrant background, has a stronger protection than an ethnic Norwegian girl, who can be called completely analogue, comparable things and experience the same hatred and the same heat – but you have to define yourself as a minority in order to have it protected. In my view, it is contrary to all the principles of equality of law, which are fundamental in our state of law, which is a fundamental principle of democracy and good society. Therefore, I believe that it is a mistake, that it is a loss, what the Stortinget has done to base § 185. And now when you expand it, you can just ask the question, what is the next group that's going in there, that's going to have this special protection? Because it is still expanding. Ultimately, this is a paragraph that gives a right based on skin color, based on ethnicity, based on sexual orientation, based on nationality. It's very special that we have the kind of legal provisions in a democracy like Norway. But again, the Workers' Party is manifestly demonstrating its inability to understand freedom of expression. For once again, one can make it a question of the state budget. I realized that the contribution to the representative Martin Henriksen alone was about how much money you should give to a play, how much money you should distribute for different purposes. Freedom of expression is not about a right to a post on the state budget; it is about a right to express itself freely, and it should be a matter of course that this hall is standing behind. That's our constitution. It's Section 100.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e601	I just have to comment on this which came to light by the representative of the Labour Party, Martin Henriksen, that we should have, like, spread uncertainty about the provision we are adopting today. There is no uncertainty as to the scope of that provision. Nothing of what is in the preparatory work, nothing of what has been said from this pulpit, cast doubt on the fact that this is a provision that should provide real protection against hateful statements, but that should also be interpreted limited in the face of freedom of expression. This is not difficult. What we have written in the preparatory work is a warning about the future. Where is the debate going? Then it's actually quite wise to look around to other parts of the world, because then we just see that what starts with good intentions, where you want to give protection from real hate, is suddenly used as a tool to promote an activistic policy. It is not in line with the freedom of expression and the legal tradition we want. So when the parties join together in the Justice Committee and warn of future developments in that direction, it should be a matter of course. It's a little surprising that not the whole Storting could join something so obvious right and fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e614	Based on Amundsen's posts, I find reason to stress that this is not about granting any groups specific rights, this is about giving vulnerable people legal protection that others have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e619	Finally, there was a little more involvement at the end of the debate, and that's good. It is an expression of the freedom of expression that we enjoy in this nation, in this country in which we are proud and happy, and which is not necessarily a matter of course in all other parts of the world. Freedom of expression is fundamental, I think everyone in this Chamber agrees. I think we have to keep up the ideals, discuss and have the opinions that are essential for our society to move forward. That was just an example of the freedom of expression we saw here now. I just want to thank the Committee for a very good cooperation, and for having made a good deal of good decisions today, which I believe will serve us as a nation. I am also absolutely sure that we will continue this debate. Thank you for your cooperation. I look forward to this debate continuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e643	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e650	The representative proposal we are now going to debate is promoted by Petter Eide, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Freddy André Øvstegård and Kari Elisabeth Kaski. The issue is to reduce isolation practices in prisons leading to a risk of torture and inhuman treatment. The issue should be well known to the Biggest since the theme has been updated in the public debate repeatedly over the past few years. The issue of the content of the case is also so comprehensive and serious that the Civil Ombudsman of June 2019 promoted a separate communication to the Norwegian Government on isolation in prisons. The matter was then dealt with by the Control and Constitutional Committee. The report concluded that every fourth incarcerated in Norwegian prisons is locked on its own cell for 16 hours or more per day on weekdays. On weekends, the scale is even larger. A large proportion of those isolated are reported to experience some form of physical or mental distress. The adverse effects may occur immediately and the risk increases with the duration of isolation. The report concludes that Norwegian isolation practices pose a risk of breach of the prohibition on torture and inhuman treatment. The proposers promote a number of proposals that need to be seen as a consequence and further consideration of the Civil Ombudsman's report and the ongoing societal debate. The Ministry has provided the Committee with feedback in response to the Committee on 20 January 2020 where the Council of State underlines the seriousness of the challenges of isolation in Norwegian prisons, as the Ombudsman also points out in his specific communication to the Stortinget. The letter of reply also points out that due to the problem of an old ICT system, there have been challenges in obtaining the quality of the data from criminal justice systems. The Ministry indicates that work is now under way to put in place new ICT systems and that this work will be completed by 2021. Furthermore, the Ministry points out that the implementation of legislation and criminal law is essential in order to ensure acceptable conditions for prisoners. In the letter of reply to the Department Committee, it appears that, in the light of the Civil Ombudsman’s specific communication, a review of the legislation has been initiated and that the Council of State will follow up the work undertaken by the Agency in order to reduce the use of isolation in prisons. For the Workers' Party, I would like to point out that we believe that this very serious situation lies at the root of it: major challenges around adequate staffing, the government's ongoing cut against criminal care, lack of programming and content work, inadequate compensation for women, lack of activation teams, the need for stronger cooperation between the health services and the care of criminals and the lack of daily places in psychiatry. I will come back to this in a later article. As an explanation of vote, I would say that the Labour Party will vote in favour of all the SV's proposals. I refer to the Workers' Party and the Senter Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e669	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e674	The challenges of isolation in prison have been debated on several occasions here in the United Kingdom in recent years – challenges that we take most seriously. The theme was re-updated in the special message from the Civilombodsmann to the Stortinget on isolation and the lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons. The criticism is not new, but has been a repetition for many, many years. I am therefore pleased that the problem has now been raised and addressed. I feel that there has been and has been a considerable amount of work in government and at all levels of criminal services to reduce the use of exclusion and isolation. This applies both at regulatory level and in practice. It's a challenge that not all prisons are organized for community. There is also a sense that many of those who commit today have more complex challenges than before. Substantial amounts have been allowed in the budgets in recent years for a number of measures, both to improve physical housing and health provision, and to increase the activity of their deployment. The level of investment in criminal services has been noticeable under this government, and it was not least gratifying that we were able to see new Agder prisons opened earlier this year. In the Spring and Mandal departments, all inmates will be offered activity. Rehabilitation of existing prisons and the construction of new ones under the Government Party support their objective of more content in soning both through good Community territory and through the provision of education and training. Russ and mental health among those involved are challenges that need to be met with safe responses, and not least with knowledge and competence. In recent years, the activation and resource teams have been created by several of the largest prisons in need. Last last year, an activation team was created in Bergen prison, including the Netherlands. shall focus on lifelong learning, sobriety and leisure activities. In the next year’s budget, it is proposed to provide additional resources to activation teams, and not least to a national resource team for women with serious mental health challenges at Bredtveit prison. A similar offer for men comes into place this year at Ila prison and detention centre. In 2020, regional health professionals started to establish area functions in the field of mental health protection and drug treatment. This will eventually lead to health professionals from the specialist services being present in all prisons. The Directorate of Health has also been entrusted with the task of revising the National Directorate of Health and Welfare for Prison Detention. This will discuss how the healthcare system, in cooperation with criminal services, should be opposed to deployments that are isolated for various reasons. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs was advised to do so during the examination of the special message from the Civilo Ombudsman earlier this year. The emphasis was placed on ensuring that they are not exposed to isolation which could lead to violations of the prohibition against torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. In the same decision, the Stortinget government asked the government to take action and submit proposals to the Stortinget for the necessary legislative changes in order to follow up the recommendation of the Civil Ombudsman. This work has been started.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e689	It is known in this room that I am an old human rights activist, so when we get reports from Norway's Human Rights Institute and from the Civil Ombudsman that there are significant human rights violations in Norway and in Norwegian prisons, I experience it as my duty to bring it before the Storting. It is equally serious whether human rights are violated in China, in the United States, in Saudi Arabia or in Norway. It is the obligation of the State to guarantee the rights of individuals, and it is, in fact, the Constitutional obligation of the Grand Duchy to ensure that these conditions are respected. That's why we're discussing this. We are not going to go into the details of the issue of isolation in Norwegian prison and how it violates the torture ban, it is known and has been discussed in this room before – some details were also provided by the case-rapporteur. What we have to say is that it's a skeleton. So in the welfare state of Norway, which is a kind of 'human rights champion' in the world context, we have conditions that are under any criticism and that can be compared to miserable conditions we only know from abroad. It is actually the state of some Norwegian prisons, and it is reported several times from Norway’s Human Rights Institute and from the Civil Ombudsman. It's time for this to be done. So it's a little surprising to hear the representative from the Right, Frida Melvær, describe Norwegian prisons as pretty hotels, and she boasts of so much fine government has done with this. The Control Committee did not agree, they were very concerned. The Civil Ombudsman and the Norwegian Human Rights Institute are, most recently in their latest report, very critical and not very impressed by what the government has done with this lately. The Control and Constitutional Committee is a control body, and they look at the past. That's their problem. They have to control the institutions of the state and how these things have been. It is not the task of the control committee to point forward and take concrete action. It is therefore quite natural that the Trade Union Committee, the Committee on Justice, should take on board the matters which have been dealt with in the Committee on Control, and should bring them to their own consideration in the Grand Duchy and put into practice the circumstances of the future in which the Committee on Control has been concerned. It is also true, as has been said, that an overall control committee is concerned about this, but their treatment of this is solely to ask the government to look at the Civil Ombudsman's report, without specifying what to do. That is why I believe that the Storting must go in and deal with some of the specific issues that have been reported by the Civil Ombudsman, and these are the proposals that I am making today – in this way they are presented. I believe that not to do so, and only send this back to the government, is a type of disclaimer in such cases. And in the case of human rights, the Storting shouldn't waive responsibility, but that's what they're actually doing in this case. The proposal for the Central Party, which is really just to take into account the comment of the Control Committee and turn it into a proposal, does not bring this matter any further. It is only an emphasis on what the control committee has done and still involves a discharge and a lack of willingness to deal with the matter in substance. That is why I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is supporting this in the future, and it is very well pointing forward to a future government cooperation that we might have to have, where, of course, such matters should be dealt with properly. So I'm disappointed that the government parties aren't willing to go into this and deal with these things, it wouldn't have been a problem, because here you have heavy institutions in your back. The Civil Ombudsman is someone we should listen to, and it would have been no problem for the government parties to support these proposals, precisely because they come from the Civil Ombudsman, who we all want to end up with, and have confidence in. So I'm going to deal with the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e708	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e713	The issue of isolation in prison is a question of human rights, which is regularly brought to our attention by the National Agency for Human Rights, the Norwegian National Agency for Human Rights. Insulation in prison is a very heavy burden on the physical and mental health of prisoners, and prisoners with mental disorders are particularly vulnerable. In 2019, the Ombudsman issued a separate notice to the Stortinget on the isolation and lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons. The report concluded that every four prisoners in Norwegian prisons are locked on their own cell for 16 hours or more per day on weekdays, and on weekends the volume is larger. A large proportion of those isolated are reported to experience physical or mental distress. I am happy to reduce the use of isolation in prison is a priority task for the government. This is also the basis of the Granavolden platform. I am pleased that the government and the criminal services are taking the Civil Ombudsman's recommendations very seriously, and that criminal services are constantly working to reduce the use of exclusion and isolation in prison. Criminal services are developing action plans for prisoners excluded from community involvement with other prisoners, and the challenges of isolation underline the need for good organisation of criminal services. The challenges of isolation are particularly common in prisons with a high level of security, some of which are very old. Some are as old as the 1800s and lack areas for community between prisoners. The government has invested a lot in rehabilitation and new buildings to achieve improvement in this area. I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice is also working to review the legislation on exclusion and coercion, and that the recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman are central to this work. This work also includes assessing the possibility of introducing a national standard for a minimum number of hours of unlocked cell each day for the prisoner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e726	It was alarming to read the findings of the Civil Ombudsman in a separate notice to the Stortinget when it was issued in 2019, about the extent of isolation that takes place without a decision in Norwegian prisons. Initially, I would like to thank the Civil Ombudsman for the work done by the Ombudsman in promoting and protecting human rights in Norway. There is enough consensus that we need to work to ensure that prisoners in Norwegian prisons are not exposed to isolation that could lead to intrusion. We know that isolation and lack of human contact are harmful and must be limited. We know that prisoners who are isolated are in a vulnerable situation, and that the prisoners are entitled to respect for their human rights. The Christian People's Party will work to improve the conditions of criminal care by working for national community rules, improving the activities of prisoners and improving treatment provision for mentally ill prisoners. At the same time, I would like to express my gratitude to the employees, who often try to solve demanding situations in the best possible way, and want them to receive the training they require when to change the situation. I am pleased that an overall increase joined the recommendation of the Control and Constitutional Committee in March 2020 and asked the government to take action and to propose the necessary legislative changes to follow up the recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman's Special Notice. And I'm glad that the department has started to review the legislation on the exclusion from community and the use of coercive agents in criminal matters. That isolation and degrading, inhuman treatment can take place in Norwegian prisons today is a relationship we cannot accept. The Ombudsman points out that the lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons is partly caused by circumstances controlled by the superior authority and partly by circumstances that prisons themselves can control. I am pleased that these conditions are now to be taken into account. On the other hand, the lack of staff capacity that could have been remedied with more resources at the disposal. Therefore, it is good that the government in this year's government proposes to allocate 6.8 million. kr to set up a women’s resource team at Bredtveit, and SEK 5 million. kr to an activation team in criminal custody. We know that women's reconciliation is often bad, and that there is a vulnerable group that needs help and care. Through these appropriations, we are helping to combat isolation in prisons. There are grounds for concern when the Civil Ombudsman's notification documents weak follow-up of prisoners who are being isolated. Follow-up is necessary for everyone, but some are more vulnerable than others. I would particularly like to point out young people, minors, people with trauma and language problems and prisoners with mental health challenges. Contact with other people is one of the most basic human needs, and it is a prerequisite for good mental health. Loneliness and social isolation are generally described as a major health challenge today. In fact, research has shown that this can lead to an increased risk of early death. The Christian People's Party will continue to fight for human rights through our work and commitment to counteract isolation in prisons and to protect vulnerable groups. We are obliged to work towards the realization of human rights for all people – not least in cases of invasive coercive measures in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e745	Crime prevention is an important part of social protection and the prevention of the recurrence of crime. In order to maximise the effectiveness of prison stays, good content is important. Isolation in prisons is a problem, among others. because contact is essential for achieving rehabilitation. There are many reasons for isolation, and some inmates isolate themselves. In the period of covid-19, it has also been necessary to keep prisoners separate for the purpose of infectious diseases. It has made it extra demanding to counter isolation. The heavy last few months in spite of this: I want to say that we are on the right track. The government takes the criticism from the Civil Ombudsman seriously, and we are working to reduce isolation in prison along several lines. We are going through the legislation on exclusion from the community and the use of coercion in prison, and we have come a long way in following up an external investigation on the Boards of Supervisors. As you know, some of the problems are that not all prisons have suitable areas for community use. Over time, the government has prioritised new prison buildings. In addition to the new Agder prison and the establishment of new buildings at Rome's Ullersmo prison and Eastfold prison Eidsberg ward to replace Oslo prison unit A, the rest of Oslo prison is being moved into suitable buildings. Next year, parts of Ila are also to be rebuilt. The criminal justice system itself also has a high focus on isolation. Statistics on the number of prisoners excluded from the community are being published each month and efforts are being made to provide more appropriate management information to the new establishment system. The issue of isolation is being monitored against each individual prison, and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs obtains external assistance to identify measures against isolation that can be realised within the current budgetary framework. Furthermore, I mention that weekly plans are now to be made for prisoners who are completely excluded, in order to ensure that the prisoner is offered at least two hours of meaningful human contact each day. Work must continue along other lines, and I hope that in the future it will not be further inhibited by covid-19. I'm glad we have good criminal care at the bottom of the changes that have to happen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e760	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e766	In what way does the State Council believe that the national project at Bredtveit will have an effective national impact? I have some problems seeing how this will help her who sits without a school and work offer in Bergen, those who share a quadruple room on Ravneberget, or for example. she who isolates herself in Tromsø because there is no separate department for women and she is afraid of the community. How will the project at Bredtveit have a national impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e771	It's because there are most women in Bredtveit, and there are women from all over the country. So I think we have more things to do when it comes to female inmates, I'm very aware of that, but doing an effort on Bredtveit means I'm good, and it's a lot of things. So that's why it has a national function, just as it has when we've made other programs, in places in Norway where other prisons and criminal services can learn from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e778	So it's not going to have a national impact, just as we've seen in the other programmes, it's going to be my conclusion. The government parties and the state councils like to point out that significant funds have been allocated to criminal services — and iodine, new Agder prisons were very expensive. However, appropriations to combat isolation practices in prisons over, for example, this year's government budget is described by the employees and their organisations that are killing in the sea. Does the Council of State feel that there is a link between low staffing and very tight operational frameworks, as we know, and the issue of isolation described by the Civil Ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e785	Just to correct: the prison in Agder was not expensive, it was actually under budget. We got two prisons for the price of one, so it was a very good project. It is a very modern prison that facilitates both content in the settlement, for less isolation and for carrying out normal everyday routines, but in a situation where one is deprived of liberty. Because that's what's meant to be, also, that prisoners are in prison. Then I know that the Labour Party believes that budgets and the ABE reform are responsible for everything that is bad and difficult in criminal matters. I don't mean that. Isolation has several reasons. On the one hand, isolation is imposed by the court, and on the other hand, because prisoners are dangerous, both to others and to themselves, and on the other hand, because of crews and areas and locations, and on the other hand, we do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e792	It is very nice that the new prison was built at the price of one, and that you got two. After all, you could also spend a lot more money in the operation to make sure that everything came into place there. Activating teams are well and good, but besides these time-table measures for the prisoners: Will the Council of State ensure that there are, in fact, resources and staffing enough for real work-training – not half-day work, as it is for the vast majority, if they have work in prison at all – and meaningful activities for all prisoners, both women and men in all prisons of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e799	My starting point is that we have one of the world's best detectives. I tend to ask prisoners -- I've traveled quite a lot around these months in different parts of criminal care -- if there's anywhere else in the world you could imagine zone, where conditions were better. The answer to that is an absolute no from all. Under this government, there have been more full-time employees in prisons than before, and I think that is very good. There are also more employees than there are prisoners, and that's also very good. So I don't think we're done. I believe we still have a job to do when it comes to insulation. I think we have a job to do with female prisoners, and we have a job to do in terms of improving the areas in several areas. It is important to give content to the cushion. After all, we want prisoners to go out and be rehabilitated, and you get both work and education in the payroll. So it's a goal of improvement all the way, but I think it's doing very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e806	Just a big comment about the state of Norwegian prisons. I've been to prison wards where there are no toilets on the cells. In the absence of staff at night, prisoners have had to leave on the floor of a newspaper. So the state is not so good. What I was going to ask is that there is a great deal of trust in the Civil Ombudsman. No one argues against the concrete proposals he has made. I picked out six of them in my proposal, and I want to ask the Minister of Justice: does the Minister of Justice disagree with the proposals of the Civil Ombudsman, which the members of the Minister of Justice will vote against? Does the Minister of Justice disagree with the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e815	Firstly, I would like to know where the representative Eide has been when he has the experience he has. I was in a 200-year-old prison last week, in Horten, where both the inmates and the employees were very satisfied with the bet made, despite the areas they have there – they are demanding. Of course, there should be a toilet available for all prisoners – of course. So I would like to receive information about the experiences the representative has. As far as the Ombudsman's proposals are concerned, many of them are very good. They shall be followed up in the budget. Most of them have a budgetary side, and therefore they must be given priority in budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e822	What we are discussing today is an important matter in itself. Clearly, we must have good conditions in Norwegian prisons. The question I would like to challenge the Council of States is this: if we look up and compare ourselves, Norway, with very many countries in the world, we must be able to state that we have very good criminal services in Norway. Well, there's some point that can always be improved. You can get the impression when you listen to the debate today, that there is a basis for very strong criticism of the state and conditions of Norwegian prisons. I do not agree with that. I hope the Council of State shares that vision – can she express it? Do we generally have good conditions in Norwegian prisons? Maybe it's important that we take on board that we should have a realistic, real perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e827	I'm a little unsure about the question, but I think we have a good, among the best, criminal care. I also believe that the ABE reform is not worse for criminal services than for any other part of the public sector. I believe that the public sector, in the same way as the municipal sector and the private sector, should constantly try to work both more efficiently and more innovatively. So you're going to have 99.5 pst. in addition to the increase in wages and prices covered by the budget. It is not, of course, either for the municipal sector or for the private sector. We also have some challenges in criminal matters. We have to take that seriously. I believe that women are entitled to just as good atoning conditions and not least the same demands for rehabilitation as that of men. I also believe that the challenges we have related to isolation must be addressed. We do that both through direct investment in activity and on much better sites where they don't have the opportunity to have common areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e834	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e842	The world’s best criminal justice system is now facing the serious situation that isolation practices can lead to repeated violations of human rights. The right-wing government itself points to inadequate frameworks in prison buildings and technical solutions, but this is obvious only part of the big picture. With this government and theirs until now eight justice ministers have been demolished stone by stone. This is serious, mainly because the goal of punishment is that people should be less criminal when they leave prison than they were when they were put in prison. Our prisons are our most important institutions for social security precisely because they are designed to prevent new crimes in society. Then the policy of the judiciary is serious because this degradation not only affects society but also affects individuals. Isolation in prison should only be used as a solution when nothing else is possible. It's the detention sentence in Norway. Prisoners shall not be subject to double penalties in the event of unworthy settlement. When the unworthy cut of the judiciary against the criminal justice system leads to a cut not only in bureaucrats, but also in the first line, we know that this goes beyond the content of the prisoners. We know that this leads to more insulation and more lock-in. The working party knows that it takes enough competent people to get the job done. This is not the situation in the country’s prisons now. The cuts have led to the disappearance of programmes and activities in prisons, and in many places working groups are either halved or cut off altogether. This leads to more time alone on the cella. Women are in a particularly weak position. This is reinforced by the fact that the right-wing government put down two open prisons for women. Women face a particularly vulnerable situation with a high lack of common time and very often without work, school and meaningful activities. This is not worthy of the equality society and the legal state of Norway. Some of our prisons have activity teams. We know this strengthens the possibility of meaningful association with prisoners and reduces isolation. But there are too few teams, and the frames are too weak. Employees I meet from all over the country, tell them that they are now reporting a walk at a time and some card games as meaningful activities. This is a declaration of failure on the part of the criminal justice community. Employee organisations and trustees support this story, and they know the answer: it's manning, manning, manning. The Workers' Party supports the SV's proposals, but if there is no real strengthening of the budgets, this is unfortunately only a written document.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e861	It's interesting to hear this debate. I just want to repeat what the representative of Aasen-Svensrud said in the beginning: the world's best criminal care violates the ban on inhuman treatment and torture. It's quite eye-catching. It also seems that everyone in this Chamber agrees on this – that these conditions are serious. We're in the special situation that the majority of the storeroom is going to vote against what they're actually in favour of. It's very serious. We hear that both Right, Left and Christian People's Party representatives boast of the Civil Ombudsman's report. They have great confidence in the report, they think things are very serious, they are grateful for the report, and they trust the recommendations. No one criticises the specific recommendations made by the Civil Ombudsman, which I have made in the matter. No one criticises the specific proposals, not even the comments. So we're at risk that the Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party will vote against something they don't justify voting against, and they vote against what they in the Grandningssalum say they're actually in favour of. I would like to ask for an explanation of vote from the representatives from the Right, the Left and the Centre to explain why they are voting against something they seem to be in favour of in their speeches.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e872	I'll give you an explanation of vote. In my post instead, I also said quite clearly that we are very pleased with the Civil Ombudsman's report. The recommendations made there are clear to the government that it is already working to follow up on the work being done, and I have confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e877	First of all, I want to say that I think it's a little strange to use words of the opposition from the pulpit about a criminal care that's the best in the world. We should be proud of that. As the Council of State said, we have challenges that we're going to work on, which we're going to work on systematically. Through the budgetary commitments and through the reports we receive back on what is being emphasised in both the ministry and the criminal services, I am confident that the issues raised by the Civil Ombudsman will be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e884	I'm not going to help prolong the debate too much, but I'm wondering about one thing: have we been to the same meeting? Have the government parties been in the same prisons we've visited? Melves nodded, but I don't think they've listened very well after. Now I have been a member of the Judicial Committee in the seventh year, I believe, I have survived many councils and have visited many prisons. The feedback we get from the North, the South, the Inland, the NFF, the Parat and others is that here's the big challenge. What I notice is that now we're approaching the end of a big period. Now we're going into an electoral campaign, but what's about to happen to the government party is a government arrogance where you don't want to listen to bad results and criticism coming to the right government guard. It is very unfortunate for Norwegian criminal services, for Norwegian prisons and for free care, who have for years tried to tell the members of the Judicial Committee — whether it is in the hearings, whether it is when we visit Baskør in prison, Oslo prison, Telemark incarceration or others. I don't understand. What we belong to today's government party is that they take it seriously. Yeah, that's nice, but when you come up with concrete suggestions on how to follow up the serious criticism we're discussing today, it's a pretty bad answer. I thought it was disappointing. We're going to discuss the Justice Budget in the fall, fortunately, because it's said from the government party that it's getting gripped. However, with the draft budget submitted for 2021 for Norwegian criminal services, there will be no arrest. I understand that Minister of Justice Monica Mæland is pleased with the ABE reform, she must be. However, it is a fact that the deboarding reform it is actually has had great consequences for content work and operation in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e893	Yes, the world's best criminal care, the punishment that works – I don't know anymore. I'm not so sure, because while people from the police in Norway travel to San Francisco and the United States and teach them how to run open prisons, right-wing government puts open prisons and unique settlements over a low shoe here at home. It may well be that we are so good at learning it away that we get the world's best criminal care anywhere other than in Norway. We have the world's best trained prison officers in this country, but they don't have time to do the job they're assigned to. I've also, like more people here in the hall, traveled around the country and visited the prisons, and I meet the same story every single time I'm out: we lock doors and again and again, we don't do rehabilitation work, we don't have programs anymore, and we don't get to do the important job that society has set us up to do. Employees operate with meaningless target management, where cultural programmes as a film evening are equated with important sensory and lifelong learning programmes, so that employees can tick a box for well-performed work. This is a mockery of what was once the world's best criminal care. The Labour Party will work and fight to ensure that criminal services in Norway are once again the best in the world, but we know that action is required completely different and much clearer than what this government is capable of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e904	We also have a strong concern about the issues raised in this matter, and we have written a note together with the Labour Party about it. There is also reason to point out how the development of resources in criminal services has led to increased isolation practices — and examples of this include the Civil Ombudsman in his report. What we put forward in the vote was to make a proposal together with the Labour Party – as it is clear from the proposals in the case – that the government has to follow the recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman. The government has also made a good deal of concrete points in the letter of reply and in the debate here today. So in the first place, we have agreed to go for the proposal we have made with the Workers' Party, to follow up the recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman's proposal. We will be close to this in the future, when we come to the budgetary procedure, and follow up when there are feedback from the government on this. We will be more involved in ensuring that these points of the Civil Ombudsman are implemented. That's what we're adding up in this case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e911	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e928	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e935	The representative proposal 117 S for 2019-2020 contains 14 proposals relating to ensuring the rights and security of families with high needs for care. Thank you to the seven SV representatives for the initiative, and thank you to the Committee and the Administration for their good work. State Council Höie has done well for the reform work and distribution to the government just to keep the interests of this group in a better way. I want to tell you a little bit about some of the suggestions and expect the parties to do their best for their vision afterwards. The Granavolden platform announces an equivalency reform, one of the key objectives being that families with children in need of complex services should be able to combine and provide good services, and that relatives should experience assistance in the process. It is easy to agree with the proposers that legislation is important in order to secure families with needs and help with good follow-up. The legislation should ensure that everyone is given the help they need. That way, we'll achieve a society that adapts everyone. Proposal No. 1, if family vicars, are on sale. Some municipalities already offer family weeks, and monitoring will show whether and in what way the supply should be extended to all municipalities. Proposal No. 2, on follow-up and guidance in early embryo diagnosis, is addressed in the government’s hearing note, where the government will propose the legalisation of the children’s co-ordinator scheme for families who have or expect children with serious illness. The proposals concerning coordination and interaction, the proposals No. 3 and 4 and 7 and 8 and simplification of documentation requirements, proposal No 6, is the point that has been included in the equivalency reform, and which is therefore being dealt with. Right to coordinator, proposal No. 5 is already legal according to the health and care laws. Proposal No. 9 and 10 relate to the addition of kindergartens and competences to functional and multidisciplinary competences in kindergarten and school, which are already part of the lift of competences. Universal design, proposal No. 11, is a necessary requirement for everyone to have equal opportunities to participate in kindergarten or school, and Bufdir is currently working to identify the need for changes in the base spheres. The re-establishment of kindergarten and school buildings comes under today's building rules, which have strict design requirements for access to all. The proposal on outreach, proposal No. 13 must be seen in conjunction with today's legislation, where home visits may already be required and necessary. The right of the individual to choose may, in the event of conflict, conflict with the need for public help. Nav has a guide obligation today, and in cases where necessary, it shall be carried out by a caller. Last point, proposal No. 14, deals with the downloading of families in general and in pandemics in particular. The government has authorised 75 million. kr for unloading and provision of activity for children in need of composite services. The intentions and objectives of these 14 proposals — and the additional proposals — are either taken care of by today’s legislation or in a process of identifying the need and finding the best solutions for the preservation of children and family life. While several of the services covered by the proposals need to be surveyed, we would point out that the equidistant reform takes account of many of the aspects raised here. The related strategy, the action plan for equality between people with disabilities and the public awareness-raising campaign on the rights of people with disabilities are measures that also provide families with a high level of care needs. The reform is under way, and the measures are being presented on an ongoing basis with a view to a holistic presentation for the Spring 2021 Stortinget. Good information for users and inter-service cooperation is a prerequisite for the functioning of the services. We have to put our trust in Nav and other involved bodies complying with the legislation and fulfilling their intentions. The 14 proposals presented – and the 49 additional proposals – are taken care of by the government in this area. The majority will therefore not be supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e969	I would like to thank the proposers for putting this matter on the agenda. The representative proposal begins with the need for the community to establish through solidarity mechanisms in order to create a society with room for all. Of course, the Labour Party fully agrees. Families with high needs for care are diverse, but in common, too often we get feedback that society and we as a community are not doing well enough. Of course, there are those who feel that the welfare state is there and that it works, but there are too many experiences of the opposite – the experience of having to coordinate the aid itself, of having to fight for their own and their own children's rights in an otherwise tough everyday life. That tells us that we're not in the goal. The size has made important decisions in the care scheme. It was necessary. This proposal deals with several other areas where we need an improvement for families with high needs for care. The government has, as we heard in previous speeches, announced an equivalence reform, and it has been sent to consult legislative proposals that also go into the proposals that we are dealing with here today. We in the Labour Party believe that we will nevertheless support a number of the proposals here today. We are impatient, and we believe that there is no basis for not taking a stand on the proposals. The Labour Party supports most of the proposals but promotes its own proposals in two of the areas. These are the proposals on Roadmap and on family weeks. I will now add some comments to some of the proposals. The majority, i.e. the government parties and the Progress Party, point out that the patient and user rights law states that the individual's needs are crucial to the offer. That argument is again linked to proposals No. Two, seven, eight. It is good that this is taken care of in the intention of the law, but we in the Workers' Party believe that we cannot borrow back for that reason. When feedback shows that there is a gap between intention and practice, we must provide families with the services that enable them to meet their overall needs. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV promote proposals on the Husbank's arrangements. The Labour Party does not vote in favour of the proposal to propose legislative changes. The proposal does not point to the potential legislative changes that are relevant, and we doubt whether there are legislative changes that are necessary to improve the situation. Therefore, rather, we point to the instruments and promote proposals that deal with better adaptation of the Husbank’s arrangements. Proposal No. 5 is about ensuring that parents are entitled to permanent rights coordinator and give municipalities the obligation to set up with a permanent rating coordinator. The co-ordinator-functioning system of the day is not sufficient. At the same time, we can read from a situation review that they document a lack of coordination and poor cooperation around the welfare services of people with developmental disabilities. A better coordinator function is one of the measures that can improve the situation. Then we notice that the government has out a consultation note on the legalisation of a separate child coordinator function. The Labour Party is looking forward to considering that proposal in Stortinget. In proposal No 6, on application procedures, the majority emphasises that the application procedures cannot be avoided. This is agreed by the Labour Party. Applications are necessary to ensure the proper exercise of rights, but the intention of the proposal is to simplify the application procedures and make them more adapted to the situation of families. That is why the Labour Party is behind the proposal. The working party is impatient to put in place better coordinated services and to strengthen the community around the families with great care needs. None of the proposals seem to have a majority here today, but the vote refers to ongoing legislative work and a forthcoming rights reform. We look forward to getting these things to Stortinget, but we are impatient. I would like to take up with it the proposals that the Workers' Party is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e994	The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e999	Many people who are waiting for disabled children today experience that society is not going to set up enough. These are relatives who often have large care tasks and need for close follow-up at different stages of life. It may be under pregnancy or through special transitions in life, such as at birth and at the time of transition to kindergarten, school or adult life. The Granavolden platform has been clear that the government will work for these families to experience a society that is set up and where everyone has the opportunity to participate and contribute. There is now work on an equidistant reform, where the vision is a society for all. There have been several meetings with users, relatives and stakeholders, which have provided valuable input, experience and proposals for action. The reform is expected to come in 2021, and it will contain concrete points on many of the proposals that are being promoted in today's case. The government will strengthen the follow-up of vulnerable children and young people and their families, and proposes that welfare services be obliged to cooperate with each other in order to provide a comprehensive and coordinated service to each child, and to establish an obligation for municipalities to coordinate cooperation between the various welfare services. In order to get a more comprehensive picture of the services provided by municipalities to families with high needs for care, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has agreed with Proba social analysis on a survey of various types of house vicar or family vicar services in the municipalities today, which will form the basis for the government's further work in this area. As part of the equivalency reform, it is proposed to legislate a right to a child coordinator in the Health and Welfare Services Act for families having or awaiting children with severe illness, injury or disability and who will need long-term, complex or coordinated health and care services or other welfare services. It is important that families with children with disabilities are provided with rapid and effective assistance, so that the housing is also adapted to the new life situation of the child. Nav is continuously working to ensure that users have equal rights to accommodation adaptation and to allow for user involvement. In response to healthcare, all shall receive good and safe health care, respect, dignity and transparency, and participate in decisions on their own treatment and how to implement it. However, it is a prerequisite for the legitimacy of the service that services and services are provided to those who have a specific need for necessary services, and therefore application processes and documentation requirements are absolutely necessary. Both the Patient and User Rights Act and the Health and Care Services Act are initially designed to diagnose neutrally, and it is the individual’s needs that must be crucial for the provision of health andcare services. The right has confidence that professionals in the services are working to manage this legislation in a good way. Good relief and activity measures for vulnerable children and young people and their relatives are important, especially in these times. In the revised national budget, the government has granted 75 million. SEK for relief and activity services for children with complex services as part of the action package for children and young people. It's also for 2021 suggested 100 million. kr for habilitation and relief services for children and young people with disabilities. It is a fundamental prerequisite for inclusion in kindergarten and school that everyone has equal access to common arenas, educational materials and the educational offer. As a follow-up to the Storing Message Closely, the Ministry of Knowledge has launched a wide range of competences to help all municipalities and county councils have sufficient competence to prevent, capture and provide an inclusive and adapted educational offer to all. The skill level shall start in the autumn of 2020 and shall be built up over five years. The state contribution will be 150-200 million. kr per year. It is an important resource, both for its neighbours, for health and care services and for society. In order to cope with a difficult situation and to take care of care tasks over time, it is absolutely necessary for those concerned to receive relief and assistance. The Government aims to present an overall related strategy and action plan during 2020. Both the related strategy and the peer-to-peer reform will be important measures to provide a regulatory framework to provide help to families in need of complex services. The right looks forward to the follow-up to this work and will not vote in favour of the proposals made in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1022	Thanks to the case rapporteur from the Christian People's Party for a good review of the case. The Socialist Left has promoted a fourteen-point proposal for a change of rights for families with high needs of care. In addition, there are several other proposals that have been promoted in the course of the debate. I'm going to go through some of them – not necessarily all at the same time – and the view of the Advance Party. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the proposers in the importance of ensuring families with the need for complex services necessary follow-up. We're going to have a society with space for everyone. I think – with respect to reporting – that no one in here disagrees. The Progress Party wants to make everyday life easier for people. Many people find it difficult to relate to the help system. Many parents spend a lot of time coordinating and managing services. It shouldn't be like that. We expect both simplification and a better service provision. Parents need to have time to be parents instead of having to fight the system and the machine bureaucracy. It's also important that we get user-adapted services. Everyone is different, and then we need different solutions for different people. Many of the needs are also complex and involve both municipal, regional and state levels of government, as well as families and, where appropriate, school, work and volunteering, which are also rapidly involved. But because it's complex, there's also a need for a bigger job related to any changes. This does not mean that the Progress Party is opposed to all the proposals as such, but we believe that once the government has announced an equilateral reform, which is right around the corner, many of the discussions relating to it should be taken as part of its treatment. Many of the measures proposed in the context of that reform are under investigation, and I am sure that several of them will be adopted after a thorough examination and debate in the United Kingdom. Among the proposals that are on the stairs, which are being worked on, is proposal No. 1 in the proposal for a representative, on family weeks, proposal No. 2, on early diagnosis follow-up and guidance, proposals No. 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8, on coordination and interaction actions and on simplifying documentation requirements. When it comes to proposal No. 11 a number of state measures relating to the universal design of existing buildings are in place and there is ongoing work to identify the situation in primary schools. However, I would like to clarify something: in the case of proposal No. 1, the Ministry of Health and Welfare is in the process of monitoring residential vicar services in the municipalities. We take a positive view of that survey and look forward to its presentation. To motion for a resolution No. 2, on follow-up and guidance after early foetal diagnosis: in the government consultation note, a proposal has been made for the statutory right to child coordinator for families with children with serious illness and families awaiting children with serious illness. With regard to motion for a resolution, no. 5, a law of its own Children’s Coordinator and the right to retain the current Coordinatorship was announced in June in the Patient and User Rights Act. I will not continue to comment on all the proposals, but it will be too easy to take what you know is working on, and that is on the stairs, and then suggest them a few months before the actual proposals are made. But it is important for me to stress that this does not mean that the government should be able to spend as much time as they want. The Progress Party is impatient and expects the Council of State to tell when they expect the reform to be presented to the Storting. We were there to negotiate it when we put ourselves in government, and we have clear expectations of what it will contain when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1043	I would like to thank SV for important proposals to strengthen the rights and security of families with high care needs and families with children with severe illness and disabilities. As others have said, this is about 14 proposals. The centre party has gone very thoroughly through all the proposals and has comments on each point, and it has been a demanding balance in order to be able at the same time to prioritise what is most important to be done. The centre party stands for us to stand up for the people who live out of society – both geographically and socially. The centre party has a number of own proposals, and I'm dealing with the proposal of the centre party that we are alone or with others in the vote. One of the proposals concerns family weeks. The central party proposes that municipalities should have a municipal obligation to provide family vicars, but that individuals should not have a statutory right to do so. So we're going to go against the fact that it's going to be a statutory right for individuals to get a family vicar, because it has to be the municipal government that's best to balance the use of the resources that the municipalities have. One is in demanding and difficult dilemmas, and we as a party are careful to go too far in overcoming the municipalities at that point. Another theme that is very prominent is getting updated and balanced information to families who are told that the child they are waiting for has trisomy 21 or, for example, trisomy 21. Down syndrome. It is very important that you get close and good follow-up and training before birth – and also after birth, seafaringly. Another theme that is emerging is the statutory cooperation agreements between health enterprises and municipalities. We are very concerned that it should include services for children and young people, people with severe mental and drug problems, vulnerable elderly people and persons with multiple chronic disorders. It's always also a discussion about the relationship between diagnosis and looking at the overall needs of individuals and families, and we ask the government to investigate whether there is too much emphasis on diagnosis. It is a demanding question that the Ministry has the competence to address thoroughly. With regard to the permanent contact person or coordinator, we have clarified in our remarks that this is a topic that the government has sent to the hearing. It is laid down in the Special Health Services Act, and in the Municipal Health and Care Services Act, the proposal for coordinators is set out, but we will wait for the government's assessments on that matter. We see no reason for you to rush it forward when the government has said you should have a thorough review of it. When it comes to pediatric and school skills, we are told how important it is. We are aware that it is difficult for schools and kindergartens to have at all times the skills that are adequate for the young people and the children who come into it, and we say that there must be training provision, i.e. post-training, and the possibility that kindergartens and schools will be able to move on to the municipality's total resources and also the state's resources. There's a lot of different diagnosis and situations here, and it's hard to have a general education that covers everything in the normal relationship. We're also very concerned about school, and that's one of the priority areas. We're concerned about getting a new practice that means guidance in the family's home instead of in the specialist health service's office when there are large distances. To the end, I just want to say that we are very concerned with a new and modern family policy, which ensures that all home-dwelling users and patients with special care needs and their relatives are offered a cooperation agreement. It will provide predictability for the amazing efforts of the relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1068	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1073	We in SV have presented a comprehensive proposal for a representative who really shows the potential for improvement that the welfare state of Norway has to deal with those families who have extra-large needs for care. It is a matter of facilitating the situation of the parents who are perhaps the most hardworking in the country. I don't think it's easy to understand how demanding the situation of these families is, without yourself having a corresponding situation in their family. The more important it is to listen to them when they present their needs. These are not the parents who want to be born on a gold chair. There is not much to ask for the system of organisation and guidance to be a little more non-scrupulous than it is today. I think people in this room can imagine how heavy and demanding it is to fill out forms after forms to provide even more documentation, once in a while, on the need that is there and that does not change. That these processes can be very heavy and difficult, I actually believe that most people here in this room can understand. The government likes to facilitate the bureaucracy of businesses and businessmen, but when it comes to the individual family's need for stronger legal courts or smaller forms, it is not willing to look at those who run the country today. Many parents with extra - large care tasks feel that they need to use more energy to argue with the system than to be a parent. This means we're very unannounced, and we here in Stortinget can help too many in a demanding situation with stronger legal dishes. For example, Difor makes us: this proposal: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals on the statutory right to family vicars for families with special care challenges, such as singles with twins, vibration families, families with children with severe illness or disabilities, or families where there is a serious illness in their parents’.» Another suggestion that will be made on this subject is as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the laws that give to all parents who have been diagnosed with a fetus with Down’s syndrome or other variation or disease, a right to close follow-up and guidance. Parents who have a child with a disease, injury or other congenital condition requiring follow-up must have the right to pre-natal training and follow-up.’ This is a proposal that I am very surprised to see that the Christian People's Party does not support the whole heart. I'm glad they've got things going on in the government, but what's described by the government party in the accompanying note is very much as clear as the proposal we're making here. Here, the Christian People's Party could have had a chance to secure a statutory right to guidance and follow-up in this area. I just want to mention that in time this was the kind of suggestion that we were with the Christian People's Party about, to bring down the number of abortions. I'm pretty sure more people would have dared to present a sick child if one were very good follow-up and guidance. There are many good suggestions in this matter. With this, I will take up the suggestions that SV says are at the back of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1096	The representative Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1102	Making everyday life easier for families waiting or having children in need of complex services is an important priority for the government. We have therefore announced an equivalency reform in the Granavolden platform, on which several of the debaters have been involved. The aim of this is to make it easier for families with children in need of complex services. I want to commend the proposers for addressing such an important issue. We get a lot of feedback from families who have or are waiting for children with a serious illness, injury or disability, which shows how demanding the situation is for them. Our starting point in Norway is good. We have a well-developed health and welfare system, with good services, financial arrangements and rights. Despite a good starting point, we know that many of these families face more challenges when they seek help. No families are equal, and the needs vary. But there are some themes that go back to the feedback we get. Many experience stigmatizing or negative attitudes. Some experience being viewed as a burden or met with skepticism and disbelief. We're not going to have it that way. Through the equivalency reform, we want these families to meet a society that stands up for them. Lack of coordination is another challenge. These families are often in contact with a wide range of sectors and agencies. This is described as labour- and time-consuming, and many feel that they themselves need to coordinate the public supply. The Comte consultancy has summarised this in its report that the families are ‘tired out of unnecessary complexity’. Another recurring challenge is a lack of influence over your own life. It is about the ability to live active and meaningful lives, but also about the influence on when and how services are to be carried out. For parents, it is important that they use their time to be parents and not to coordinate and administer services, and that there are no outsiders to govern their lives. Equivalence reform shall respond to the challenges faced by these families. It is gratifying to see that several of the proposals made by the proposers are identical to, or substantially similar to, the points in the Granavolden platform. This applies, inter alia, to: family vicars, offers to pregnant women who are told that the foetus has a disease or chromosome abnormality, coordinator and interaction measures and simplification of documentation requirements. I am not going to mention all the proposals during the allocated time, but I would like to make some comments on some of the points in the proposal. The proposers call for a right and duty to the permanent contact person or coordinator. Here I can inform you that the government has recently concluded the consultation of a proposal to harmonise and, not least, strengthen the legal provisions on cooperation for children and young people in the sectoral laws. This includes proposals to help ensure more integrated and coordinated services for children and young people. Here we also propose a legal child co-ordination system for families who have or expect children with severe illness, injury or disability and who will need long-term, complex or coordinated services and other welfare services. In the state budget for 2021, we have proposed the establishment of a contact family scheme targeting pregnant women who are awaiting a serious diagnosis that has been found in pregnancy. This offer shall be developed in cooperation with patient organisations. The proposers propose co-decision processes rather than application processes. The government's goal is just to create the patient's healthcare. It means being involved and being heard in decisions that concern you. Furthermore, according to the Granavolden Platform, the government is working to simplify application processes and documentation requirements where appropriate. It is a continuous work, which in some cases requires regulatory change, while in others it is about changing practices. At the same time, it is important to point out that services and benefits are provided to those who have a concrete need for necessary services. In many cases, applications and documentation requirements are necessary. The government is well in the process of the equilateral reform. It will help children and families with children in need of complex services to receive coherent and good services, and we aim to present the whole of the reform for the Spring 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1128	There is a national plan for upgrading school buildings and outdoor areas. It's called Roadmap. Universally designed secondary school 2030. The aim of this is for all children to attend their secondary school by 2030. I know that this is not necessarily the territory of the Council of State in the day-to-day work, but it lies as part of the proposal. In the Workers' Party's 2020 alternative state budget, we are proposing to restore an interest-rate compensation scheme to refurbish and universally design schools and kindergartens for 5 billion. kr. But if we're going some way with the plan, we're going to have to implement it. Then I wonder how the government intends to implement the Roadmap plan. Universally designed secondary school 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1133	A number of State measures have been launched which are important in the work on universal design. The Children's, Youth's and Family's Directorate is working on a survey of primary schools. Such monitoring may help municipalities plan, prioritize and decide on the necessary upgrades. The Ministry of Education has commissioned the Education Directorate to engage in dialogue with Buffdir and KS to provide guidance to kindergarten and school owners on the universal design of kindergartens and school buildings. Education Directorates and Bufdir shall also cooperate on other possible measures for the universal design of kindergartens and school buildings. With the ongoing introduction of trade renewal, the use of digital solutions and learning materials follows. Compliance with the universal design requirement for digital solutions is essential in creating new solutions, but also the choice of school owners between different solutions. In addition, the government has continuously strengthened the finances of municipalities in order to manage this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1138	When you read the Roadmap, it also takes the milestones year after year. By 2020, it says that in order to get some way, economic instruments need to be set up, such as: grant schemes, grant appropriations or interest-rate compensation schemes. Now I cannot find anywhere in the state budget that the government has just prioritised this to get some way with Roadmap in this area. Perhaps the Council of State can help me, or is it that we have not explicitly prioritised funds for Roadmap, as the Roadmap plan actually shows?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1143	In general, the government has chosen to give priority to the finances of the municipalities in order to fulfil their role as school owners. In the case of grant items, they are in the territory of departments other than the Ministry of Health, so I have to regret that there is little help to get from me. That's what the Minister of Knowledge has to be asked about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1148	The relatives are making an amazing effort in many situations. From the centre party it's a priority task to try to bring about a new and modern policy of relatives, so that we can get the good interaction between the public and the close relatives, who make a great effort and are really concerned that it will work well. The central party has a proposal in the vote asking the government to ensure that all resident users or patients with special needs for care and their relatives are offered a cooperation agreement that can ensure predictable cooperation and dialogue with healthcare. The government parties do not support that proposal, but I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of the proposal, whether this is a proposal that the Council of State is working on in other ways to implement, so that the relatives can have greater security in the amazing job they are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1153	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Lundteigen, on the importance of the efforts of the relatives. That is why the government is also working with its own family strategy and action plan related to this, which is also part of the equivalency reform, and we hope to complete it before Christmas. We also propose that welfare services be obliged to cooperate with each other in order to provide individuals, children and young people, with a comprehensive and coordinated service provision. We also propose that welfare services be given an obligation to cooperate beyond the follow-up of specific children or young people. We also propose – and it is important – cooperation and not least coordination of these services. This is not least what the relatives themselves experience as the most stressful, that they have to take this role. Then there is a general demand for close cooperation with relatives and users in the design of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1160	I would like to thank you for your answer. The Stortinget will soon receive a document for treatment, so that you can go into it thoroughly. It is in its own way a follow-up to the proposal of the Centre Party, as it is here today. My second question concerns the practice of guidance for families who have children with severe disabilities. In those parts of the country where there are large distances, it is demanding for families to be able to make contact with the specialist healthcare service where the specialist healthcare service operates. We therefore propose that a new practice be investigated, which means guidance in the homes of families. It should be more so that professionals come out and thus see the whole of their families living in, and thus will be able to give much more pointed and good advice, based on the situation of each family. What is the Council of State's view of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1167	I believe what the representative is dealing with is very important. That is why we have also included this in the National Health and Sickness Plan for 2020-2030. There we are not least concerned that this type of service should be more likely to deal with the patient, either physically at home when necessary, or using digital solutions or other outpatient services. We believe it is a great potential for this. We see in the time we've been through, with increased infection in society, that the ability and willingness to take advantage of these solutions has been considerably greater than what we've seen in the past. It shows that this is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1173	The government announces that there are things going on in this area. That's good. That's what it takes. We look forward to any improvement in the area. Now I don't think the government is going as far as SV wanted here. But we'll have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1177	What I want to ask the Council of State is, when does this come to the Grand Government? What concrete plans do the councils have to make to remove or, as far as possible, to facilitate the paper mill, the amount of applications and the documentation requirements that these families we are talking about are facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1187	As I said in my post, the overall news of this comes to Stortinget in the spring of 2021, but it's not like the government has locked all of this into one big document. There are also ongoing issues to the Stortinget about law changes and other things. For example, the role of the coordinator and better coordination of the service, etc. are now being consulted. Then there are some changes that are related to the representative asking about concrete, namely documentation requirements and reporting, with which we are continuously working. Some of it requires changes in laws and regulations, while others are just about having their practices adjusted. There is also something the government is constantly working on to improve, and something we do not necessarily wait until we present the whole matter on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1194	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1211	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1218	The representative of Moxnes proposes to include the holiday supplement for daily allowances. The high unemployment rate we've seen this last year, which has been marked by the pandemic, is probably the background for this change to be proposed now. The Labour and Social Committee has dealt with these matters, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for your cooperation. The holiday supplement was an excretion of holiday money from the daily allowance and was 9,5 pst. of 62,4 p.m. of wages and salaries. The system did not allow a job seeker to take up regular work in order to be considered a real job seeker. The holiday supplement was paid regardless of whether the employee was back to work. The holiday supplement gave significantly lower ignition than holiday money lit up by full pay. The people who chose not to report to Nav about holiday withdrawals were better off than the ones who reported them. Holiday plugin was considered low in focus and provided with an unfortunate incentive. The scheme was terminated on 1 January 2015. Instead, a right was introduced for the long-term unemployed to receive the daily allowance in connection with holiday absences. Recipients of daily allowances who have been available for 52 weeks or more are now entitled to a full day’s leave, and are exempt from the requirement to be a real job seeker for up to four weeks. It is right to ensure that long-term unemployed people also have the opportunity to take vacations, but there are different means of achieving the goal. We have seen that the holiday supplement scheme was an incentive not to report a holiday. The day’s four-week leave for the long-term unemployed without being charged the day’s allowance provides a more accurate solution. The workline requires that it be paid to be at work and that it be paid to seek work. The current scheme provides security that allows you to take a vacation without being charged the daily allowance when one week or more fails to return to work. Well-being policies are important schemes to ensure that job seekers receive legitimate benefits. Shorter periods jobseekers will lose the ignition corresponding to the length of their unemployment with the current scheme. The instinct to be active is therefore firm. Good reasons suggest that today’s system is the most accurate and well - arranged long - term unemployed. With this background the majority does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1235	Day money is an important part of our common safety net. In the case of unemployment and leave of absence, it is essential that the community should set up so as not to destroy the private economy. A day’s pay is safe, even if the job may be insecure or disappear. It also provides opportunities for conversion – employers who experience temporary downturns may retain valuable skills rather than lose them. Some places have been given the opportunity to develop skills that make them stronger, whether the job comes back or they have to look around for new opportunities. In the case of the Workers' Party, the day-to-day allowance is an investment in security for both the employee and the employer. For the right-hand side, day money is just an irritating expense. At every crossroad, they are looking for opportunities to cut for weeks, in the elevated rates we got fought during the Korona crisis, and in the holiday money they removed in 2015. Presidential candidate Joe Biden tends to say: Don't tell me about your values – show me your budget, and I can tell you what you value. We have seen this clearly in Norway during the crisis. As usual, the right-hand side prioritises its rich friends, e.g. through billions of dollars in the taxes on wealth. The Labour Party is also an interest party – for ordinary workers. That is why we have prioritised setting up a number of social schemes as a result of lay-offs, unemployment, illness and stoppage. But we have not yet managed to force the right side to correct the error from 2015. Therefore, when the holiday comes in 2021, many thousands will not receive holiday money. And as a result, many will experience less living. It will primarily affect individuals and families, but also business and Norwegian economy. The Workers' Party has repeatedly tried to secure out-of-work and unemployed holiday money, but unfortunately we speak to deaf hearers. With that, I would like to address the proposal that the Workers' Party is behind with the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1248	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1253	One of the strengths of the Norwegian welfare system, if not Norwegian political rhetoric, is that it offers us worker security in times that are perceived as everything else. It also mitigates the effects of a dynamic labour market independently of the ongoing pandemic. The right considers this to be a good thing for both employees and employers. Therefore, we will ensure that the basic principles of the welfare system are preserved, but also make changes when necessary. The day-to-day payment scheme, a temporary guarantee of income in the event of unemployment or leave, is a scheme Right-wing desire to protect and maintain. The basic principle of the day-to-day pay scheme is that day-to-day pay is to be a real job-seeker. It means active job seekers and available for work. The idea behind the holiday supplement – not the holiday money, but the holiday supplement – was that the daily allowance recipients could still take some time off. However, the scheme made absolutely no sense, when the supplement was paid in January of the year after the rights had been earned, at a time when most of the unemployed and on leave were back in work. Regardless of this, I think it is wrong to prioritize a holiday supplement to a social benefit like this. In the last seven years, the right has been backing several changes to work on the day-to-day arrangements and targeting those closest to the labour market and therefore best suited to getting help. We have moved increased efforts for the long-term unemployed from six months after the end of the daily allowance to six months before they are used up, to close gaps in the social security network. Similarly, in 2015, the government terminated the holiday allowance supplement, while at the same time providing long-term unemployed persons with the right to a daily allowance in connection with holiday leave. Then you can take a vacation with the children at Easter or the public holidays and not wait for a supplement in January of the following year, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV's proposals reverse the changes. The right considers it to be the wrong priority of social benefits for living according to our common welfare system to provide a holiday supplement to the short-term unemployed who are mainly back to work, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will. The right shall ensure that, instead of those who have received daily allowances for 52 weeks or more, the day-to-day allowance is paid in the course of a holiday settlement for up to four weeks. We believe that this is better for individuals, better for their families and a better political priority. We therefore do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1264	I start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good and tidy job. I also have to say that when I heard the comments from the representative of Grande, I understand that he has learned a lot from the rhetoric that is correctly used in a presidential struggle in the United States, but that doesn't necessarily have a lot of substance. In this case, Red has proposed to reintroduce the old system of adding holiday pay for those who are going on a day-to-day basis. The scheme was terminated in 2015 and replaced by a better and more accurate scheme. The party of progress will keep the order of the day. If you are unemployed and receive a daily allowance for more than 52 weeks, you can take a holiday with the continued payment of a daily allowance for up to four weeks. It is also worth recalling in this debate what the Stortinget has done to ensure a better economy for the unemployed in the difficult situation we are now facing under the pandemic. Normally, the daily allowance is 62.4 pst. of income up to 6G. The new and temporary arrangement under the pandemic is 80 pst. of income up to 3G and 62,4 pst. of the excess up to 6G. This means that the unemployed are now receiving higher payments than under the ordinary rules. Furthermore, a good social profile has been identified by the fact that a low-paid person retains much more of the income during the period of unemployment. If you had, for example, 300,000 kroner a year's salary before you lose your job, you'll get 80 pst. of this in cash. For one with an annual salary of half a million, it gives a coverage of over 70 pst. of wages and salaries, or approximately NOK 48 000 a year in addition to what would be obtained under ordinary rules. In addition, we incorporated more into the daily allowance scheme by lowering the requirement for previous income and reducing working time. We've seen that unemployment has fallen somewhat after society has partially reopened. That's good. The overall goal for all of us must be to get even more back to work as soon as possible, or to work again if return to the former employer seems difficult, and avoid continuing high unemployment. Although the unemployed are guaranteed good arrangements that provide room for leave, it is unlikely that the unemployed person will think about it first, but to get back to work, and that is also where the Stortingen’s focus on action should lie primarily in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1275	The central party is promoting proposals that will reintroduce what was the legal text before the state budget procedure in 2015. It also means that the law will enter into force immediately and take effect from 1 January 2020. Those who lose their jobs lose income. They lose a sense of security in their lives, and then their daily allowance is central. We've done well, as mentioned, to get better day money in this period: 80 pst. of the first of the ca. 300000 kroner of income. The difference between 80 pst. and 62.4 pst. is NOK 4500 in gross monthly income. 4500 kroner in gross monthly income is a lot of money. The central party wants that rate to continue – in the first place, as we see it now – until 1 July 2021. We are excited about what the budgetary negotiations between the government and the Progress Party will end up in at this point. The Progress Party can now show that it is preparing for those who are most affected. But what is the matter now is the holiday supplement in the daily allowance scheme. There were welfare policy reasons that gave one this scheme in 1978. It is simply the economic situation that the unemployed get if they do not get holiday pay. Holiday money is a significant percentage – over 10 pst. - and that's why we're talking about large amounts. The central party voted against this change in the 2015 state budget. I have also noticed, when I have gone through the matter from then on, that it is from the Christian People's Party – in the position on the national budget, Innst. 2 S for 2014–2015 – was a note that one went in to maintain the holiday supplement scheme for day-care recipients. The background was probably the same as the Center Party still stands on, that these are people who need the income you can get when one in any case has the huge loss of leave. We are therefore behind the proposal and are excited about how the Christian People's Party stands in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1284	I would like to start by thanking the proposer for a good proposal. For several years, out-of-work workers have not been paid holiday money. Permitted workers are in a very vulnerable situation. This is most inexcusable when it applies to the individual worker, but it frames very hard. With a sharp drop in wages and, in addition, not having a job to go to, this already means a greater burden than what we in SV will be on the individual employee. Therefore, it is high time that the government realized that the grip they took in 2015 was wrong, and that it has had great consequences for ordinary people and families with children. Not getting the possibility of a little extra vacation and leisure time and a little extra spending on vacation with his family is a great burden for both parents and kids. This is a very important matter for those who trust in the trade movement. I understand this very well, and we in SV support the whole heart up on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1289	Better conditions for the unemployed during the Korona crisis have come under heavy pressure from the opposition, while the government has pulled its leg all the way — today, at the latest, when they extend the increased daily allowance in the last second, but none of the other improvements. This fall is the right side back in the known style: they turn to the workline at a time when there are no jobs available. It's dry. Because even though the increased daily allowance is being extended today, all of the other cuts come in sequence and row. There are so many cuts that most have lost the overview. Firstly, several thousand workers are thrown out of the daily allowance scheme because the government does not extend the period of entitlement to the daily allowance. They must now ask for money from known or selling almost everything they have in order to qualify at all for social welfare benefits outside the municipalities. Secondly, the requirement for a daily allowance is raised. Many part-time workers, who are now unemployed, will not qualify for daily allowances even from 1 January. Thirdly, the economic penalty for the unemployed will be extra harsh next summer. 350,000 Nordics who have been unemployed for shorter or longer periods this year will then suffer a severe loss of income. This is because in 2015, Erna Solberg's government removed the earned holiday allowance for the unemployed. In a situation of mass unemployment, this framework will be record-breaking. This means that everyone who has gone on a daily allowance in 2020 will miss up to a month’s income in June next year. What are they going to live on when that time comes? It is urgent to reintroduce the holiday money for a very simple reason: those who have been available must pay for mortgages or rents, for electricity and for food when the summer comes in 2021. Without the holiday money, they have paid little. When June comes, the government thinks these people are going to sell some shares that they don't have, draw the credit card, or sell everything they own to qualify for social welfare. This is unworthy and has nothing to do with hard work. That the government allows it to happen at the same time as they cut the property tax by over 1 billion. kr for them at the top, is another proof that this is a government that takes good care of those who have the most, and sends the bill to people most. Now the government has to take into account the hundreds of thousands of families hit by a heavy cut in income next summer. They have to listen to the trade movement, they have to turn around and reintroduce the holiday supplement for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1306	The coronary apathy has led to significantly higher unemployment. Fortunately, many have also returned to work since the highest level in April. The representative of Moxnes, on the basis of the pandemic, has proposed to reintroduce the holiday supplement for day-care recipients. First, a clarification: the daily allowance, in line with other social security benefits, does not qualify for holiday pay under the holiday law. On the other hand, until 2015, a holiday allowance was paid for the daily allowance to job seekers who had received daily allowances for more than eight weeks during a calendar year. The holiday plugin corresponded to 9.5 pst. the gross daily payment, during the previous calendar year, and was paid during January/February of the year following payment. The background of the scheme was to compensate for the fact that, as a beneficiary of a daily allowance, one could not take a vacation without the daily allowance falling away. The employment and welfare centre reports that the average holiday supplement paid in 2014 was NOK 8 800, which is considered to be related to the fact that most people are unemployed for less than six months. The scheme was therefore not sufficiently accurate, without necessarily contributing to cover several weeks without daily allowance the following year. The supplement was paid to everyone who had received a daily allowance for more than eight weeks, regardless of whether they had completed a vacation or not. For most people, the payment came at a time when they were back to work. The scheme helped to increase the overall level of social benefits to an average of 68 pst. It was also an unfortunate effect of the old scheme that those who took a day’s leave without informing the employment and welfare seat were compensated twice. These therefore came out much better than those who reported about the holiday as one should, which meant that the daily allowance was stopped during the holiday period. In order to ensure the long-term unemployed with a more real holiday opportunity, the holiday supplement was therefore terminated. Instead, the government introduced a right for the long-term unemployed to receive daily leave allowances. Persons who have been unemployed for more than 52 weeks are currently exempt from the requirement to be a true jobseeker for up to four weeks during the holiday settlement and at the same time have the right to a daily allowance during this period. That right did not have the day-to-day allowance recipients with the old holiday supplement scheme. The current system makes it better for the long-term unemployed to afford to take a vacation with the family and is, in my opinion, a more accurate system than the previous holiday supplement. I believe it is a proper priority of social security funds to provide such social security payments to long-term unemployed day-care recipients rather than to pay day-care allowances to those who have returned to work and are paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1327	The scheme to which the Council of State refers is likely to cover a large proportion of the total. 50000 long-term leases, while the scheme as proposed by the opposition today is about the economy of 226 000 leased or vacant. This is not just about the possibility of taking vacations, as the Council of State emphasises. It's about the economy of people. It's about a monthly income. There's money that people expect, that people need to make ends meet. What is the Government's message to those who are out of office and who are not subject to the government's change in relation to long-term permits, who will now experience that the already tight economy is getting even tighter as a result of the government's cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1332	Let me first remind you that the proposal that the opposition is voting for today would also apply to those who were permitted during the coronary crisis, but who are now back to work, given that they had been on leave for more than eight weeks. This again means that they would have the holiday money paid in the month change of January/February. I don't think that's a proper priority for that money. The second thing worth remembering is that the consequences of what the opposition is going to vote for today are that if you took a day off, took a vacation from looking for a job, you would get a day's allowance, while what we've been going for is a system that says that if you choose to take a day off after a year's leave, you won't get a day's allowance. That's our income insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1339	I understand that the right-hand side is not very concerned with the licensed ones. They have shown this over and over again by cutting the number of weeks, by cutting off the holiday money rights, and also that we have to drag them to the Stortinget and force them into higher daily allowances. It's nothing new. What is surprising, however, is that, at the same time, they show that they are not particularly concerned about, for example: The travel industry in Norway, which is now very struggling, and which will be able to experience our tough and not least a tough summer to come. With so many thousands who already have problems with the economy, who will get their economy worse as a result of the government's cut, an already pressed industry will experience even tougher times. What is the government's message to the tourism industry, for example, which is already under threat today from permits, redundancies, bankruptcies, when we have today the possibility to adopt a proposal that could actually help the wheels get moving more and more?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1346	Let me first say clearly that this government cares a lot about the perms. I believe that the work that not only the government has done, but that a total increase was done when the crisis hit, showed that Norwegian policy can stand together when such a situation arises. I am very proud of what the Norwegian policy had in common, and I have also done now, to make sure that those who experience uncertainty, at least know that this is not the time for political games and draws in the Storting, but where we are moving in the same direction. And yet I understand that as this crisis changes phases, there will be discussion about some of the measures. Now the Prime Minister has made it clear today that we are going to propose to extend the increased daily allowance rate out of March. In addition, rather than some general schemes, more targeted schemes are introduced, such as: in the case of travel or other occupations which are exceptionally laboured during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1353	The government says that the unemployed are guaranteed the holiday, but only those who have been unemployed for 52 weeks or more when the next summer comes. It's about 50,000 people. The remaining 350,000, who have been more or less unemployed this year, will actually be cut off what they have to live for when June comes next year. The government has no clear answer to that. For those who are long-term unemployed, as the Council of State is pushing ahead here, it is a paradox; for months to come, the long-term unemployed will be thrown out of the day-to-day arrangements – 8 000 from the first date now and then many months ahead – because they do not extend the day-to-day arrangements for those who are long-term unemployed. What are these people going to live on, councillor?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1360	Let me start by saying that one reason some people wouldn't be covered by what means you get a vacation after 52 weeks is that a good number of people are fortunately back to work. Even though the crisis is not over, it is far better for much more. That means that a lot of people are back. The arrangement we have today, and which I want to defend as better and more rational, is that those who have been on leave for more than 52 weeks, can take up to four weeks of vacation without a daily allowance. The representative, Moxnes,’s proposal means a day’s work allowance, but that a holiday supplement is added to it. The second is that it's absolutely right that we kind of set a zero in the March and October daily allowance period. That means that we are now back to the scheme that the Storting has adopted several times and that there has not been a very big discussion about, namely, 104 weeks of daily pay. That's something we're now going back to, precisely because we see that the time off is going down and more people are going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1367	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1374	If you want to stand up to those who have come out badly through the Corona situation, you are voting in favour of the proposal that has been put forward here today. There was someone who had a reference to the American election campaign. When someone says that the system that exists is a good one, I think it would be defined in the United States as 'fake news'. There is no good arrangement for people who have been unemployed for a period of time. Let me give you an example: you got a permit when the corona virus signs in across Norway in March, you are available until April/May, you have used up your 52 weeks, and you have the opportunity to get back to work – what happens then? If you have not been available for 52 weeks or come back to work before taking a vacation, you will receive nothing. A lot of people work in companies that shut down on vacation. Then it is not useful to say that you should just keep working. So it's a bad idea to get people back to work, too. It is not better to have no holiday money than to get the holiday money that was earlier. I think the reason given by the Council of State here is quite special. The council says it was a problem that people were paid their holiday money in January and February. If it's a problem, just make sure that that money is paid when you take a vacation. It is also said that it was a problem that someone cheated, and that they let the daily allowance run and took a vacation. Then you get to take care of it and not make sure that everyone else loses the holiday money they need. It's quite special that you don't see that this would be a good suggestion for the thousands of people in travel life who are out of work now. If you go into the next summer with no holiday money – there's going to be a lot of people doing, at least it would be a lot less holiday money than what they had got with the proposal that was put forward here today – you won't travel that much on vacation. Norwegian society will face more challenges because these opportunities are not being used. If you are committed to standing up for those who have the pressure, you will change your mind and vote in favour of the proposal that has been put forward here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1387	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1404	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1411	The Labour and Social Committee has dealt with the representative proposal 112 S, to ensure that all employees receive their holiday money. Employers shall, on their proposal, be obliged to set off the holiday money they have posted on their own, blocked account. The aim is to prevent employers from being liquidityd to pay holiday money, especially for the summer of 2020, as many employers have had a demanding year. What we have to think about is that the holiday money comes instead of pay. If an employer has the possibility to pay his or her salary, the same employer will also have the possibility to pay holiday money. It's not that the holiday money comes in addition to the usual pay. The special situation we've had this year has made a lot of employers work extra hard to keep the wheels going. With the representatives' proposal to unlock funds with 10.2 pst. of each salary paid, it may result in a much more difficult liquidity situation in already under pressure. So the solution is not to make it even harder for employers, which in the worst case will end up in bankruptcy. We have not received many messages that there is a broad problem that employers have not paid the holiday money to add them. If it were the case that workers were completely without safety nets in non-viable enterprises, this could be a possible measure. Similarly, when an employer does not have the liquidity to pay normal wages, an additional employee who does not receive his holiday money may be entitled to bankruptcy by the employer. As a result, the insured person is liable to pay and/or holiday pay. We are aware that many companies are struggling to keep it going. The tool is therefore not to streamline and insist on blocking amounts for up to one and a half years. However, this proposal will not have a practical impact on holiday money to be paid in 2020 or 2021. The changes will only have a practical effect on holiday pay in 2022. The government has put in place a series of measures aimed at strengthening the activities under the pandemic. When adjustments are made during the process, this is considered more accurate to ensure that you have work done and to correct them. Even if we agree that workers are entitled to holiday money, we are not in agreement with the method of securing this. The majority are not supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1428	It is only to note that the position and opposition disagree also in this case. I would like to thank the proposers for raising a very important debate. It is a matter that the trade union movement has also been concerned about. Holiday money earned belongs to the employees; there is no money available for an employer who has liquidity problems. When we see some companies struggling under the corona, it's clear that we're all worried about it. It is clear that both employers and employees will go a long way in ensuring that jobs are maintained, and we have already seen many examples of this. However, it cannot be that employers can, at their discretion, dispose of other people's money, the employees' money. As the proposers point out, the NHO has surveyed that one in ten enterprises, 11 pst, are unable to pay holiday money, while another 13 pst. I don't know if they'll make it. These are worrying figures — between one-fifth and one-fourth of the enterprises in the survey, which we have to assume actually belong to the serious enterprises. So there are so many who fear that in 2021 they will not be able to meet their pay obligations. Therefore, it is positive that the Council of State has come to the trade union movement and said that he will consider the requirement to set holiday money off in a separate account. But so far it's just verbal, and it doesn't help that much. I find it strange to see that the bulk of the population says that an order to put holiday money in the blocked account will only apply from 2022. In essence, the Council of State states in its reply to the Committee that it will only consider measures in the long term. For the Workers' Party, it has always been important that the crisis packages that we have granted here in Stortinget are socially fair in their devices. For the Workers' Party, it is also important that it is not for employees to subsidise companies with payment problems – or liquidity problems – it is a societal task. If the enterprise fails to comply with its obligations, to pay the holiday money to its employees, the company is, in effect, bankrupt. Then I would like to address the proposal that the Workers' Party is behind with the SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1439	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1444	In the cold water of covid-19, many issues arise that are either new or shed new light on them. But one thing is the position and the opposition quite agree: of course, workers should receive the salary they are entitled to, where holiday pay is part of the salary. This summer, uncertainties were created about several aspects, and I do not believe the proposal necessarily solves this. I would like to remind you that employees are already guaranteed wages, holiday pay and other work compensation through the pay guarantee scheme if the job goes bankrupt or is compulsorily wound up, completely independent of covid-19. So it might be easy to distinguish between what was a real problem and a misunderstanding. During the summer, there was some confusion about holiday pay for those on leave, as both holiday pay and daily pay are actually compensation for wages. When you leave, you do not have the right to pay at the same time. As a result, there was a technicality as to whether and how the holiday was to be completed in order for the permit holders to have their holiday money paid, without having to receive a daily allowance at the same time. This led to uncertainty, but was resolved in dialogue between employers and employees. A real problem, however, was that 11 pst. by a sample of NHO’s members at a survey in April, they replied that they did not think they could comply with the holiday pay obligations. Afterwards, it seems that the government's powerful support packages helped solve it for most people. I know nothing but one example that it has become a problem. The easiest way to ensure that employees receive the money they require is to pay full pay to the employees without having to go on holiday savings. However, the social democracy of Norway has no confidence that as individuals we are able to dispose of our own income, and has therefore instructed employers to withhold the wages of employees in order to pay it in the event of holiday termination up to one and a half years after the money was earned. Thus, the size has been more confident that employers can save the employees’ money than the employees themselves. The alternative could have been that the employees were paid the full salary each month, and that the special account was the employee’s own – not as in this proposal: continue today’s compulsions, but into a closed account. The government says it will look at the scheme in its entirety, and I think that makes sense. Then you might also want to look at the possibility of transferring trust from the employer to the individual employee, so that she gets the salary she deserves when she earns it. The right does not support the proposal, but waits for an assessment of how best to ensure that employees are paid and paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1462	I just want to briefly correct the previous speaker. I guess she meant Storting's crisis packages. After all, for the crisis packages that were treated by the government, there was much improvement in this room. The proposal we are examining is about making sure that we are all fully in agreement and committed to – that employees should be sure that paid holiday pay comes when they are going to, for holidays. The matter arose when we saw in the summer that some employers had major liquidity challenges, and therefore also had problems paying holiday money. Of course, this is a very unfortunate situation, but fortunately not a normal situation. But this year is a very special year, in which many companies have worn out and labored economically in the cold water of the pandemic that still hangs, and strict measures to prevent infection that affect operations and the economy. But when that is said, there is no one who wants the principle of the Socialist Left here to lift up, is a good idea. Of course, an employee should be sure that the holiday money comes. It's money set aside from the previous year's work and it's theirs. However, the Progress Party does not currently support the proposal, as we see that this is already under investigation so that we can get a comprehensive assessment of the case. In the reply letter from the Council of State on 8 June, it says among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘For this reason, I have started a work on investigating such a scheme as the representatives refer to, namely that the employer is required to put holiday money into a separate account, similar to tax credits.’ The study will therefore be able to give us answers on how best to ensure that the intention of the proposal we are discussing today is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1480	The background is a survey of NHO companies, where a significant proportion say they are having trouble paying holiday money. It's a serious situation. The centre party has arranged for one to provide security for the companies in the same way that one should provide security for the employees. We have been involved in obtaining a law that allows companies to set tax credits on their own account. In principle, there is no difference between setting tax credits on your own account and setting holiday money off on your own account. From the Land Organisation, a way of doing so has been proposed that is unbureaucratic. One can set off continuously, or one can set off an account, which will be easier to manage. The interesting thing about the matter is that the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, both in the media and in the answer to us, was positive in its basic attitude to the proposal. The Council of State wrote in the letter that: ‘There may be a need to assess measures that contribute to ensuring that workers receive paid holiday pay in the event of holiday settlement.’ [[...]] It was a positive signal from the Council of State. Then the organisation worked as an employer. They were -- as usual, I'll almost say -- negative. They are quite aggressive of such proposals. The nurses ’ union was positive. There's the thing. It's going to be a balance from the government's side who one of us is going to listen to. It was the N.H.O. that started the case through its investigation. We took it seriously. We are trying to do something about it in an unbureaucratic way, and on that basis we support the proposal that a holiday money set be either on an account or on a current account, so that one does not come into the situation that the companies do not have the financial ability to pay when the holiday money is to be paid to the professional workers the companies have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1496	This proposal comes as a result of the NHO investigation this spring, which has been mentioned. This scan showed that 24 pst. The companies were either afraid that they could not cover up for holiday money, or were uncertain whether they could do so this year. We are fully aware that the background to these high numbers is a very challenging economic situation as a result of the coronary crisis, but equally fully this shows that people's holiday money is not good enough in practice as it is today. We also have a situation in Norwegian working life where labour crime is a major challenge. If we can put in place a system that in practice makes it very difficult to run an enterprise without having holiday money fixed in a private, locked account, we believe that this will contribute to a cleaner working life overall. We've heard of cases where the addition of holiday money was a question of where the holiday money is going, even before the Korona crisis hit business. The individual added on its own is often not in a position to report the company’s bankruptcy. They don't dare, most of them, without a union in their backs, and not everyone has. SV is very impatient when it comes to securing people's work rights and cooking up holiday money, and it's good that the government is on the way to getting paid. This may take the shortest possible time, and therefore this proposal is to press the government. We're excited about what comes out of the government's statement, and not least what time the result comes to the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1505	First, I would like to stress that I fully agree with the proposers that it is very important that holiday pay, which is the money the employee has already earned through previous work, is actually paid out to the employee. The Holiday Act does not currently have specific rules to ensure that paid holiday pay is retained when they are due, but companies are equally fully responsible for being able to pay the holiday money in a timely manner. My main impression, then, is that businesses are making sure that employees are paid their holiday money when they are going to. Nevertheless, I believe that there is good reason to assess whether there is a need for a better guarantee of paid holiday money than today. This question has been updated in connection with the outbreak of covid-19. Some of the employers' organisations reported to us about several member companies that had liquidity problems that could create challenges for the payment of holiday money. Although the covid-19 pandemic is a special situation that has led to particular challenges, I believe that there may be reason to consider the need to secure the holiday money more closely. I have therefore already started a work to investigate this. Before the summer, the Ministry sent a letter to the main social organisations to get more views and preliminary assessments of a scheme for the provision of holiday pay in a separate account, as also proposed in the proposal for a representative. The organisations on both sides, in their contributions, have stressed the importance of the timely payment of their holiday pay to employees. However, the employer’s side has pointed out that a solution with a separate holiday money account could have some significant liquidity implications for the enterprises. In the light of this, and in order to clarify the various aspects of possible solutions, I have therefore invited the main organisations to investigate this. Work is started this autumn. The investigation shall include, inter alia: explain the extent to which employees are not paid paid paid holiday pay and the reasons for this, including the effect of the covid-19 outbreak. The investigation shall further assess whether there is a need for measures that ensure, to a greater extent than at present, the timely payment of holiday pay earned, and promote any proposals for concrete solutions. However, I believe that we need to take time to address the issue properly before we conclude. I also believe that this is best done in line with the Norwegian tripartite model, through a wide-ranging party investigation, in which both the scope of the problem and the consequences of possible solutions are thoroughly investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1520	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1526	I perceive the council until he actually agrees that earned holiday money is to count as salary and belongs to the one who earned them. The Council of State also says that he has started an investigation work, and in his letter to the Committee he writes that he considers that he is considering making proposals in the long term. It would have been interesting to know when Stortinget could expect to get a specific case on it. Furthermore, I wonder what the Council of State intends to do to prevent companies from going bankrupt because they cannot pay holiday money next year and at the same time ensure that employees get paid the holiday money they have actually earned.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1533	To begin with, a time limit has been set for the report to be submitted until 1 December 2021. Within one year, a report shall be brought back which will review the impact thoroughly, but also the alternative solutions that can be found. I think the best way to do this is for both the employer and the employee sides to come up with their proposals for solutions, precisely because both sides express how important it is for employees to get their holiday money unpaid. So the question of how to make sure that companies are able to pay holiday money. First of all, it's right that the representative also says that this is the employee's money. That means they're going to have them paid on time. In fact, if you don't make it, you're de facto bankrupt. The second is, of course, that we need a wide range of action packages and other solutions, which we have come up with on an ongoing basis, to ensure that businesses can pay both wages and holiday pay as they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1540	I thank you for the answer, and then we will meet the results of that investigation. But I have a question, which I really hadn't prepared in advance. I was a little surprised when I heard the comments from the representative of the Council of State. As she expressed herself in the debate, she actually called for the whole holiday money scheme to be abolished. I wonder if there's an opinion that the council shares with its party trap.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1547	Now Storting knows only one government council at a time, but I'll be a little careful to say what might be suggested in the future. That being said, I have to say, a little personal, that it is possible that social democracy has destroyed me, but I am very happy to get holiday money. It has helped me a lot one summer, especially at younger age, that someone spared me, because I wasn't always as good at it. Having said that, this investigation is primarily about how to ensure employees, that they know that they get the holiday money in time, and then I'm excited about the feedback we get from the parties as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1554	I have to admit that I was perhaps a little less lifted by the posts of the Council of State than I had hoped, simply because the Council of State said that part of this cooperation with the social partners was to investigate the extent of the problem. Then I wonder, how large must the scale be? Should there be 5,000 cases during the coronary crisis and 2,000 cases during a normal year? What about those who are not organized? That's maybe where the problem is greatest. Isn't it a problem if there's only 700 people who have a slight connection to the world of work and unprofessional employers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1559	I believe that any employee who is not paid neither the salary nor the holiday pay they are entitled to is a problem big enough to solve. The reason why we're saying that we want to look at the scale is that it's clear that the covid-19 situation has updated the issue. Before that, there was not so much discussion about whether you were unsure whether you were getting holiday money or not. So we have to look at what's the situation in a crisis situation, and what's the situation in the labour market in general. The second is, of course, that the scale of the problem plays a role in what means we put in to solve the problem. That's why it's an important part of it. One of the reasons why I'm saying that is that the parties that have recorded to us by 1 July this year have provided different descriptions of the scale of the problem and the impact of the proposals like this. The representative will vote in favour of today. That is why we are committed to ensuring the intentions of the proposal, which we fully agree with, but we also need to do so in consultation with the parties, so that we can find solutions that are real to the problems that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1566	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1585	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who had to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1592	I wonder if there may be a misunderstanding regarding the discussion of the matter, because I believe that the committee agreed that we should have five-minute posts, but I'll have to redraw to take what I don't get in the first round. As rapporteur of the case, I can start by thanking the proposers for raising a very important issue, which is how we are going to achieve a truly equal and universally designed society, where there is room for everyone on equal terms in education, work, leisure activities and other social participation, such as. choices. A prerequisite for this is that we ensure that man-made barriers are removed and that new ones do not occur. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Because of the covid-19 pandemic, the Committee instead of holding a hearing asked for written submissions on the matter. We have received recordings from the Joint Organisation, the Organisation for the Disabled and the Blind Alliance, which all endorse the proposals. The case was referred to in the previous Stortingen session, and similar proposals as proposal No. 1 in the proposal for a representative, on the transposition into human rights law of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and proposal No. 8, on e-election solutions for the blind and partially aware, have already been dealt with and voted down in the previous session, so those proposals were rejected and not forwarded to the Committee. The Committee has provided that we can nevertheless review these proposals on our own initiative, since the referral is only made after the formation of new aggregates. That is the case for proposal No. 8 -- there we go. As regards proposal No: However, a similar proposal has been made in the current session on the law on human rights, which is under consideration in the Judicial Committee. Therefore, the Committee has chosen not to adopt proposal No. 1 on a case-by-case basis. At the same time, we have clarified with the Justice Committee that in their case they also consider the issue of Norwegian ratification of the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention, since the two proposals are closely linked. That means that today the Stortinget is dealing with proposals No. 3-12 of the original draft representative. Those proposals span a large register of issues. They include proposals for a new deadline for the universal design of Norway by 2035, following the abolition of the previously agreed deadline by the government and the majority of the population. At the same time, a shorter deadline, by 2030, for universal school design is proposed. Proposals are made to include the right to information, goods, services, organisation of polling facilities and e-election solutions for the blind and partially sighted. A universally designed cultural sector, including accompanying certificates and evacuation equipment and emergency plans, is important for persons with disabilities. I end by taking up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind with one or more of the other opposition parties – and I'm drawing for a new post.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1613	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1618	Universal design is about a good life for everyone and a society that is useful to everyone. The aim of universal design is to achieve equal opportunities for participation in society and to combat discrimination based on disability. Universal design is based on an understanding of disability as relative. This means that disability is not an individual medical problem, but there is a complex interaction between people and the environment. Thus, disability can also be reduced and limited by adapting the environment to the different functions of humans. Societal and spatial planning are important means of achieving this. We will have high ambitions in areas that include the development of housing, infrastructure and outdoor areas, and better enforcement of universal design legislation. The universal design principle shall be respected in the planning and requirements of each construction measure, as a result of the purpose paragraph of the Planning and Building Act. This implies that all those who design and manage plans must base their universal design. Several areas are now being worked through a new national transport plan for the 2022–2033 planning period, where universal design will be a global theme. There are also new electoral laws and, where appropriate, the implementation of two EU directives requiring increased access to information, goods and services for people with disabilities. In the cultural field, the Equality and Discrimination Act provides for universal design for all private and public enterprises that target the public. In addition, the Ministry of Culture makes universal design a prerequisite for its annual grant letter and it is organised for accompanying persons with disabilities who have purchased an ordinary ticket. Crisis can hit us all. It is therefore important to ensure safe living conditions for persons with disabilities through good and organised prevention, warning and preparedness systems. Municipalities have a fundamental responsibility for protecting the population and helping to maintain critical social functions. They also do so today through risk and vulnerability analyses, where follow-up of vulnerable groups is explicitly mentioned in the guide. Over several decades, the government has organised its work on universal design through action plans. The Government’s Universal Design Action Plan in 2015–2019 was extended to last 2020, and the government will present a new action plan in 2021. In addition, the action plan will set up a universal design that is systematic and appropriate, and the response letter from the Council of State states that it is difficult to set specific years for universal design to be implemented in all sectors. However, in the work on a new action plan, a discussion will discuss possible deadlines and see work in the context of Norway's follow-up to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Agenda 2030. In the light of the work already under way, the right will not vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1635	Thank you to the President-in-Office for your effective comments. This is an important matter. Norway should be a universally designed society where we all see and where everyone has opportunities. We need systematic and appropriate universal design in Norway. That does not mean, however, that we should give the UN Convention precedence in Norwegian law. Norway has already committed itself to complying with the Convention, regardless of how it was implemented in Norwegian law. I also note that in 2016, all parties in the Foreign and Defence Committee, with the exception of Left and SV, drew forth as the main argument against the accession of the Individual Complaints Scheme to the CRPD that in some areas, the Committee monitoring the implementation of the Convention appears to interpret the Convention in a far-reaching way that is not in accordance with the understanding of Norway and other States. In addition, the Progress Party believes that Norway should decide its own laws and regulations. We already have a lot of supranational law governing Norwegian law. For this reason, the Progress Party does not support the wording which refers, inter alia, to: the EU directives contained in the document. In this case, like in one case that we dealt with earlier today, there are several of the points on the stairs and are in the comm. A new universal design action plan has been announced in 2021, and I will not now advance what must be in it, but the Progress Party will have clear demands for that action plan. Also, universal design is not something that is only adopted in a document, but it must be part of a continuous multi-level work. For example, universal design is a comprehensive theme of the national transport plan, driven by the very Progress Party, a transport plan that is twice as large as, among others. the red-green ones, which means that due to the Progress Party, there is more money for universal design of transport and infrastructure solutions. Furthermore, work on universal design is taking place across the country. It involves both municipalities and county municipalities. Municipalities provide services, inter alia: requirements and provide professional advice to municipalities and to builders. The municipalities do the same thing. Societal and spatial planning are thus important in order to achieve universal design. Otherwise I will refer to our comments on the matter, and I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1654	I have to say, like the representative of Christoffersen, I mean to think that the committee asked for 5 minutes' main posts in this case, but it's going to work. I'd like to start this article by saying that the Storting has had nice goals about a universally designed nudist ball for many years, but we've come a little bit longer than 20 pst. by all the gallows. It's too bad, and I think it's a betrayal of people with disabilities. We need a real force on the road to an equal society, and a society where everyone can participate as far as possible. It's about priorities. We're a rich country, but when it comes to equality and inclusion of people with disabilities, I dare say that we're not as rich a country as otherwise. The path to a universal society is too long. We all have a way to go, but the suggestions that SV makes or helps to make in this matter are a good start. It's only a shame that they're being voted down today. For example, can we really call ourselves a real democracy when the emerging disabled workers are excluded from participating in elections? That the cases were recognised as serious, and that it made a difference – yes, it's true, but that's not enough. The blindfold and other stakeholders in the field should be promised that there should be a real possibility for everyone to be able to vote on the same line with others. One of the proposals I would like to make specifically in this debate is: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all construction and means of transport are equipped with evacuation equipment to ensure safe evacuation for disabled persons.’ This proposal is being put to the vote today. Shouldn't it just be missing that we got this in place? Norway is unfortunately far from achieving equality for people with disabilities. Therefore, it is particularly critical that the government has removed the ambition that Norway should be a universally designed society by 2025. Finally, I would like to thank the organisations of the Norwegian Disability Association, the Organisation of the Disabled, the Blind Alliance and the Løvemmammen for their cooperation and good input into the treatment of this matter. With this, I take up the proposal that SV says on its own in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1678	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1683	The government's vision is a society where everyone can participate. Everyone, regardless of functional variation, should have equal opportunities to live an independent life and participate in society. Universal design is a central means of achieving this. Universal design is an important quality of society that contributes to society's sustainability, equality and improved physical and digital environment. It is necessary for persons with disabilities and facilitates everyday life for all. The potential for universal design has not been fully exploited. There are still areas of challenge, and status analysis shows that there are good opportunities for further development. Persons with disabilities continue to face barriers that prevent equal opportunities for participation in school, work, home and leisure. That's why we have to work all the time to get better. Strengthening legislation, regulation and empowerment has led to positive developments in a number of sectors. This must be continued and further developed. The government follows up universal design in key areas of society. We will continue the high ambitions of the Granavolden platform on the development of housing, infrastructure and outdoor areas. We must prevent the emergence of digital dividing lines in the population through an inclusive digitalisation policy. As early as 2013, Norway had rules on the universal design of ICT solutions, both in the private and public sectors. It involves the automatic design of websites, mobile applications and digital learning materials according to international standards and guidelines. The government is now working on implementing two EU directives that impose stricter requirements on the universal design of information, goods and services. Schools were mentioned in the debate and, in the case of schools, priority was given to monitoring school buildings in the Buffdir Universal Design Grant Scheme. Monitoring helps municipalities plan, prioritize and decide to upgrade. There is also a need for more knowledge of what is good school construction and how school owners can work with universal design. Education Directorate and Bufdir have launched a project to provide guidance to kindergarten and school owners on the universal design of kindergartens and school buildings. With regard to the national transport plan, the representative of the Progress Party was quite right in saying that much has been done here by the government. The national transport plan notification for the period 2022 to 2033, to be submitted in the spring of 2021, will address this further. Universal design will be a horizontal theme in the Communication and in the review of the various sectors and actions. Finally, I would like to say that the government is well in the process of developing a new universal design action plan. The action plan will point the way forward and provide for a systematic and appropriate review of universal design in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1702	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1707	The councils had many good points in their posts, but there was a fundamental weakness lying there at the bottom. There is no obligation for the implementation of the good measures. So I registered that Margret Hagerup from the Right in his post suggested that the work on the new action plan will also assess deadlines, and then I wonder: Does it vote? And if that is true, when can we expect a universally designed Norway with today's government's level of ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1713	I want to commend the questioner, but also the representative Hagerup, for being well up-to-date in this field. I would like to say that in some areas a number of deadlines have already been set. All websites addressed to the public shall be universally designed by 2021. State buildings shall have upgraded all buildings under their responsibility to their universal design by 2025. In general, I would say that it is difficult to set a specific year for universal design to be carried out in all social sectors throughout the country. However, the ministry will properly discuss this in the work on the new action plan – that is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1720	I thank you for your answer. Then it will be exciting to see when that action plan comes. I would like to ask the Council of State if he might think of being with me on a little trip back in time, more specifically until 10 June 2008, when we dealt with the law that we then called the Anti-Discrimination Act. Then there was a proposal, No. 21, from the left of the Great Britain, which reads: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the universal design of existing buildings, installations and outdoor areas from 1 January 2020. Existing means of transport shall be universally designed by 1 January 2025.» Now we need a deadline for some of that. In NTP, the government is looking forward to 2050 – 30 years in time. So what I'm asking is, why is there such a difference between the left and the left now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1732	I think it was good proposals at the time, too, and I think it is good proposals that are also here. That is why, as the representative Hagerup pointed out, the government has said that we are committed to this. We have an action plan that would run out, which we have chosen to extend this year. We are now working on a new action plan how many of these actions that the representative addresses will be addressed. We are also working on two EU directives in this area, both the WAD Directive and the Accessibility Directive. In addition, I have launched an investigation into universal design, for example. in the workplace, to ensure that there is an obligation to provide both ICT and similar office premises. I know that the Committee has also been concerned with other issues such as: the paragraph on disproportionate burden. We have said that in the context of that action plan, in the context of the implementation of these directives, we will also discuss the necessary provisions here and come back in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1737	The reason why SV has found it necessary to promote these proposals is that it takes a very long time, and that we have heard many times now from a slightly different government that you should come back in an appropriate way. I think there are few groups in society who are so patient with us politicians and the authorities that disabled people are. Then I would like to ask the Council of State a more specific question to Section 17 of the Equality and Discrimination Act on Universal Design, which uses this term ‘disproportionate burden’: does not the Council of State consider it reasonable that this should change over time? So it's been ten years since the law was passed, and you're still using the same scale, and you're saying that it's going to be just as small for someone like that. shall reconstruct its store, shall ensure that it is universally designed. Does the Council agree that this law must be tightened up?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1744	First of all, I want to say that we share the ambitions, that we want our society to continue to be more and more universally designed, and I want to say that Norway is one of the countries in the world that have come the longest, but it will by no means say that we are in goal. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that this ‘disproportionate burden’ in the Equality and Discrimination Act is a dynamic standard that is flexible and will evolve over time. An overall assessment is made in each case of whether it is considered to be disproportionate or not. For example, the provision states: particular attention shall be paid to the effect of removing the barriers, the public nature of the general functions of the establishment, the cost of the organisation, the safety considerations and the need for protection. But what I can say is that in the context of these two EU directives that have been mentioned, we are also going to review existing derogations and see if there is a need to make changes to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1753	Then the cord shift is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1758	Then I get to take what I didn't get started. What I was going to point out is that the committee is divided in its position. I think the hall has already discovered it on its own. It is therefore the case that the majority, consisting of the government parties Right and Christian People's Party, and with the Advance Party as a supporting party, recommend that the proposals not be adopted. That's too bad. The opposition, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, proposes that proposals No. 3-12 is adopted, but with a few exceptions and shades. The proposals on e-choice solutions for the blind and weak minded and universal design of the cultural sector are promoted by the Workers' Party and SV, and the Workers' Party and the Centre have first sought to investigate the need and consistency of tightening up the definition of 'disproportionate burden' in order to justify exemptions from universal design requirements. Then we'll see when that investigation is available. But also there it's interesting to look a little bit back in time, to 2008, when in our time we dealt with the law. Then the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left promoted a joint proposal where one says that: ‘The Government requests that the possibility of relying on a disproportionate burden be removed after the deadlines for the individual categories of construction, civil engineering, outdoors, transport and ICT have been set and reached. Public-sector measures do not initially have the right to rely on a disproportionate burden.’ So once again, there are differences from the left at the time and the left at this time. Let me use the last minute to justify the Workers' Party's support for the proposals. I am not going to go into them one by one, I refer to the setting in this way, but the arguments for the proposals are basically the same: we need a deadline. Selections of samples have been investigated and investigated, hundreds of actions are listed in action plans, but in many areas we stand on the ground resting, for example. when we talk about work. The employment rate is not getting rich. And we know that the obstacles to adult work already start in kindergarten and elementary school and reproduce through life. Thus, more than 12 years have passed since the Stortinget unanimously – I remember – adopted the Stoltenberg Government's proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination on grounds of disability. It was then followed up by an ambitious action plan for a universally designed Norway by 2025. But that deadline has been lifted by the Solberg government. Valuable time is lost. The opposition has made repeated proposals for a new binding deadline by 2035 but has been downgraded. But we're so arranged that we don't give up, so we try again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1782	I have often wondered why things are going so slowly in this area – because it does – because everyone is saying that they agree on the values that we are discussing today: that society should be equal and equally useful and accessible to all, in all areas of society. Everyone says that, and we've been saying that for 20 years. Nevertheless, this goes terribly slowly, and it comes off at least two things. One is that if you don't have deadlines, you never get to the goal. That happens to be a breach of time limits. You shut up. That's what you've often deserved. Sometimes there can be good reasons. But if you don't set deadlines, you don't get to the goal. One of the first things that the government did was to remove the deadlines. There is no obligation to do so. The second is that those we're talking about now are not strong press groups. These aren't groups that have strong economic interests behind them, which can point to the state budget and say, look, I'm going in positive. This is a value question about how we're going to organize society and make sure that once we've built a society that's not accessible to everyone, it's going to cost us a lot to fix it, but we have to do it because it's right, because this is human rights that apply to everyone. I was also one of those who fought hard because we got the paragraph of racism into Norwegian law. However, the difference in this area and in this area is that discrimination in that area is considered to be politically dangerous. Then we know that there can be trouble. It's not going to be in this area. It doesn't, because there's no one who threatens us, either financially, on strike or with anything. It imposes a special responsibility on us on politicians. Now it's made, for example. for schools. We know that a lot of schools aren't available for kids with different types of disabilities. There is a road map – Universally designed secondary school in 2030. It's ten years ahead in time, but it's not even possible to agree to say that we're going to do it. We really don't need a lot more investigations, because the investigation is there. It's made by Bufdir. Let's get started and do this. Then money must also be allocated, so that it is possible for the municipalities to get this to. Everything in this area does not cost money, but something costs money. I have to say I'm pretty sorry today, because these suggestions that SV here has taken up are things that I experience that all parties join when we're in debates, when we're going to mean something about the field. But when it comes to giving priority to it in everyday political work, where something else has to be put in front of it, you choose to put disabled people behind it — even this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1797	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox So today's map is ready to debate. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1814	The size is then ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1826	Case No. 1 is the third processing of legal acts and applies to legislative note 2 cf. legislative decision No 6 with the opinion adopted at the meeting of the European Parliament on 23 October 2020. It is therefore contested by the legislative decision with the adopted remark from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1838	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1850	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the proposals No 3-6, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The point B VIII of the Recommendation was amended in the course of the debate and now reads: The Storting asks the government to submit a bill to ban sibling childhood. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that first- and second-line healthcare services and schools have adequate cross-cultural competence, in particular competence in negative social control, honor-related violence, guidance on family start-up and other family-related matters.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that family protection has adequate cross-cultural competence, in particular competence in social control and honor-related violence, and to ensure that parents and families who so wish, or where the need for assistance is reported, are offered appropriate parental training on different stages of childhood and youth that facilitate generational dialogue.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of cross-cultural competence in child protection, in particular knowledge of honor-related violence and negative social control, and ensuring that child protection has good practices for the work on these issues.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government calls for the extension of the mandate of crisis centres to include follow-up in a restoration phase for those who have broken out in the context of negative social control, violence and honour-related violence, where necessary and appropriate. This must entail changes to the financial instrument.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e1899	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to launch an investigation to assess the need for a new criminal code that protects all citizens from particularly hateful opinions, given a much higher threshold than under today’s criminal law § 185.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2546	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section A I 185 and the proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment shall be amended as follows: I Paragraph 185 is deleted. II The amendment under I shall enter into force on 1 January 2021.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2569	It is contested by Section A of Section 253, first paragraph. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2584	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2594	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2604	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2682	It shall be counted against B II to VII and IX to XI. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2696	It's mooting over B VIII. Right, Socialist Left, Left, Christian People's Party, Green and Red have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2712	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2717	So let's do that right over here. The setting was accepted by 49 votes to 39. It shall be counted against B I, XII and XIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2736	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2-7, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-7, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure reliable and publicly available data on the extent of isolation in Norwegian prisons.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to the provisions of the Criminal Enforcement Act which ensure that isolation is used only in exceptional cases, as the last possible option and for as short a time as possible.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments prohibiting isolation for a defined number of hours in line.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to extend the terms of reference of the Boards of Supervisors to include the monitoring and supervision of enforcement decisions, the keeping of prison records and the use of isolation, including on its own initiative and without the consent of the prisoner.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to the terms of reference of the Boards of Supervisors to impose a reporting obligation on the Ministry of Justice and Defence v/Directorate of Criminal Affairs, and on suspicion of illegal use of force and isolation.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a free legal aid scheme for prisoners who file a complaint against their prison for illegal isolation.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2790	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to follow up the recommendations contained in Civil Ombudsman's Document 4:3 and to return the status as appropriate.’ [[2018-19]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2814	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2833	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Elise Björnebeck-Waagen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7-9, by Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 10–16, from Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 17 and 18, from Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 19 and 20, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 21-23, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 24–26, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2860	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24–26, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals on the statutory right to family vicars for families with special care challenges, such as singles with twins, vibration families, families with children with severe illness or disabilities, or families where there is a serious illness in their parents’.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to monitor cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services and to promote the necessary proposals to provide procedures to ensure cooperation with parents of children with special needs for care before or shortly after birth.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine whether there is too much emphasis on diagnosis as a door opener for services, instead of on the basis of overall needs and family wishes. The government is also asking for the necessary legislative proposals to ensure a much more comprehensive understanding.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2889	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21-23, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a municipal obligation to provide family victories to families with special care challenges, such as singles with twins, vibration families, families with children with severe illness or disabilities, or families where there is a serious illness in their parents’.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for new practice, meaning guidance in the home of the family, instead of in the specialist health service’s office, when there are large geographical distances. This applies to guidance for families with children with severe disabilities.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all resident users/patients with special needs for care and their dependants are offered a cooperation agreement capable of ensuring predictable cooperation and dialogue with health care, which takes care of the needs and rights of family members to relief, training, leisure, guidance and self-care, and the like.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2918	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to propose legislative changes to ensure that families who have a disabled child have the right to rapid and effective financial support in order to adapt their housing to their new life situation.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to implement «Veikart. Universally designed secondary school 2030’, so that all schools are open to all students.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2942	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to simplify and strengthen the rights of families with children, including the development of the family week scheme for young children’s parents in particular in need of assistance in emergency and special situations’.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The size is behind the goal that all children should be able to attend their secondary school by 2030, and asks the government to submit a plan for the Stortinget to follow up the ‘Roadmap’. Universally designed secondary school 2030’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e2969	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–16, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for parental rights to be guaranteed and the municipalities are obliged to provide with a permanent contact person/coordinator/rights coordinator as early as possible, with guidance in the system, any applications and practical and human support.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a guide clarifying the responsibilities of the rights coordinator, including the provision of outpatient services to those who need it.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the development of competence so that kindergartens have the basic competence for functional variation.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that schools have interdisciplinary competence, in order to ensure more holistic follow-up of students.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to gather knowledge and to build up an overall offer for siblings in families where, for example, a child has severe disabilities.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that parents of children with special needs are able to receive the guidance they need at home from outpatient services, instead of having to meet in an office.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to identify the situation of parental relief schemes for children with special needs and to make proposals that make it clear that flexible and safe relief schemes are a fundamental part of the rights of families, which municipalities must ensure are maintained, even in times like this with coronary apathy.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e3019	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure up-to-date and balanced information to families who are informed that the child they are expecting has trisomy 21 or other diseases or disabilities.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the statutory cooperation agreements between health enterprises and municipalities include services for children and young people, people with severe mental and drug problems, vulnerable elderly people and persons with multiple chronic disorders.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to consider that the diagnosis is a door opener for services, rather than that the overall needs and wishes of the family are taken into account.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e3055	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1–6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the laws that give to all parents who have been diagnosed with a fetus with Down’s syndrome or other variation or disease, a right to close follow-up and guidance. Parents who have a child with a disease, injury or other congenital condition requiring follow-up must have the right to pre-natal training and follow-up.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the Government to propose that the House Bank's schemes for grants and loans for the adaptation of housing for families with high needs of care should be more adapted than at present to the financial situation of the family, both in terms of the amount of grants and loans and in terms of the conditions for repayment of the loans.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the avoidance of difficult application procedures by families in need of assistance and instead to be invited into codecision processes based on the trust that the authorities have the best knowledge of the family situation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the investigation with functional screening and diagnosis, if any, be available without a long waiting period.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a national escalation plan for the development of activity schemes and short-term stays, including to ensure the relief and security of the dependants of children with special needs for care’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a case for the Storting to improve the permissiveness of children with special needs in the labour market in order to ensure equality and the ability to combine work and care, cf. The proposals of the Kaasa Committee.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e3107	During the debate, Arild Grande has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law on the amendment of the Law on Social Security I [[re-introduction of the holiday supplement to daily allowance]] In Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]] Paragraphs 4 to 14 are replaced by the following: Paragraphs 4-14. Holiday Plugins For members who have received daily allowances for more than eight weeks during a calendar year, a holiday allowance is provided for the daily allowance. The holiday supplement represents 9.5 per cent of the daily allowance paid in the calendar year. The holiday supplement shall be paid as soon as possible after the end of the holiday retirement year or when the member has raised the daily allowance for a full social benefit period, cf. § 4-15 first and second paragraphs. II It shall enter into force immediately and shall take effect from 1 January 2020.» Alternatively, between the proposal and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e3146	The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e3158	Can we take the vote again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e3163	Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e3182	During the debate, Mr Christoffersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals as soon as possible to ensure that the holiday money belonging to the individual employee is set aside in a separate account, so that the employer can never spend the holiday money belonging to the individual employee.» Alternatively, between the proposal and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e3206	Case No. At 7 o'clock there was no final debate. 14 and will be voted over on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-03.ana.ud534e3327	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
