ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e30	From the Workers' Group there is an application for a study permit from the representative Elise Bjørnebeck-Waagen for the period from 9 March to 13 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, is hereby invited to meet from 10 March to 12 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e50	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e55	On behalf of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Ole André Myhrvold, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a new soil protection target for the maximum re-disposal of 2000 deer crops annually by 2026.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e60	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e76	We just put a decade behind us, the 2010s. The 2010s may not yet be the same as the 1980s or 1990s, but in time the 2010s will also be used as a framework for understanding major changes in the world. That some events go into the history books, we immediately understand. Sometimes it takes a long time to realize that events actually have historical significance. But we know this: by the beginning of the 2020s, the concern about global developments is greater than it was at the start of the 2010s. It is in the years that lie behind us, the consequences of climate change really became visible and increased. How we're going to work together to deal with this is going to be one of the most important questions in the decade that we have in front of us. In recent months, I have been stopped more often than before by people who are worried, for example. for the situation in the Middle East, for the trade conflict between the United States and China or for the corona virus. I have not experienced this kind of foreign policy unrest with the same strength before, and it is because both small and large pieces of international policy are moving in a way we haven't seen in decades. This does not mean that everything has gone in the wrong direction in recent years – absolutely not. Every single day in the 2010s, a newspaper could have had the cover: ‘Yesterday, 170,000 people left extreme poverty’. In the 1980s, over 40 pst lived. by the population of the earth in extreme poverty. Today the number is less than 10 pst. Poverty reduction is one of the most important things that have happened in our time. Economic globalisation and the spread of free trade and the market economy have contributed to this. The Paris Agreement and the sustainability goals show that the world is still able to agree on issues that affect the entire globe. And that's the decade we're in now, the world's country is going to meet our common global action plan – sustainability goals. Human rights are under pressure in many places in the world, but there are also points of light that show that it's worth fighting. In various places such as Hong Kong, Ecuador, Angola, Botswana and Bhutan, progress has recently been made on gay rights. Globally, equality continues to go the right way. This year we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Women's Conference. For example, family law in several countries is moving in the right direction, the age limit for marriage is set at 18, and women’s political and economic participation is increasing – worldwide. However, we also experience considerable backsliding in several areas, especially for women's sexual and reproductive health and rights. That some countries are increasingly talking about sexual and reproductive rights as something controversial is worrying. The right to control your own body is not controversial, it's a fundamental human right. When women's human rights are violated every day, in many parts of the world, we have to talk about it and discuss it. Violence against women is widespread worldwide. In some countries, there is a preference for sons to have extreme rashes, such as: violence, discrimination and even killing. Although there are ugly relapses in some places, the overall trend is clear: more and more girls and women in more countries are getting to decide more on their own lives. And even though today's challenges are great, we must not forget that we are also living in a time when the opportunities to do something about the world's challenges are greater than ever. Developments in the 2010s were not black and white – which it was not in the decades before. The years after the millennial change, among other things, marked by the terrorist attack on 11 September 2001 and the Iraq war. The financial crisis was an economic and political earthquake with devastating consequences for large parts of the world. But the world looks different now compared to 10 or not at least 30 years ago. And not only does the world look different today, our view of the future has also changed. The belief that many of us had at the time that freedom and democracy would continue to spread across the world almost by themselves seems naïve enough today. I think it's right to say that there was a new seriousness in foreign policy in the 2010s, not least because several of the fixed points we're used to navigating are moving. A virus discovered in Wuhan, China, has spread to over 80 countries over a few weeks and has had enormous consequences. Such an epidemic shows how closely the cohesive world has become. We travel more and have global markets and production chains. It makes us more vulnerable. The outbreak of the coronary virus has been declared by the World Health Organisation as an international health crisis. It also has a direct impact on the world's stock exchanges. Norway supports the World Health Organisation’s leadership and coordinating role in the global process. In view of the risk of spreading to countries with weak health systems, the government has made an additional contribution of 10 million. to the work of the WHO on preparedness and operational response in developing countries. Norway is a major contributor to the Coalition for the Prevention of Epidemics and Pandemics, CEPI, with a total of 1.6 billion. kr towards 2025. CEPI has initiated the development of a vaccine against the coronary virus. The aim is to have a vaccine candidate for clinical trials as soon as possible. CEPI reports that they are making good progress. The World Bank is responding with a commitment for developing countries of well over 12 billion. dollars to remedy the situation, focusing on the poorest and most vulnerable countries. The government, with the Prime Minister at the head, has made direct contact with other countries to mobilise donors for financial support for the work of the WHO and for vaccine development through the CEPI. In the consular work, we work closely with the Nordic and other European countries. The Minister of Health will report on the Corona virus on Tuesday. From epidemics to terrorism: still more challenges we can only solve together. One of the clearest features we can see now is that countries that were absolutely crucial to establishing committed international cooperation are now turning away from multilateralism and choosing bilateral, unilateral and transitory solutions. This is more comprehensively described in the Annual Report on the Role and Interests of Norway in Multilateral Cooperation, which was discussed in Stortinget on 25 February. International cooperation is under heavy pressure. International standards are being broken, and the limits of what is politically acceptable are being shifted. Parts of the security architecture in our part of the world are weakened. Countries with a more authoritarian set of rules act with greater self-confidence. Violation of human rights is not linked to the same shame as before. The rule of law and democracy are weakened in several places, including in Europe, as in Poland and Hungary. The space for freedom of belief and life is snuffed in a number of places, which is often an indicator that other fundamental human rights are also at risk. The Arab Spring was fast to winter. As head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I well remember our committee trip to Egypt, which ended the day when the popular uprising for real began in the Tahrir Square. I stand by what I said at the time: we have seen dictatorships fall, but we have not yet seen democracies rise, except Tunisia. The conflict in Syria is now within its ninth year. More than half a million people have been killed. More than half of the country's inhabitants have had to leave their homes. The 2010s were marked by large migration flows. Over 65 million people are driven away. Most of them travel to nearby countries or remain internally displaced, but many will also look for Europe. Economic globalisation has brought enormous benefits, but not everyone has reaped the benefits of this growth. There are considerable differences in national distribution policies. Populism is spreading, and, among other things, is turning into a more selfish foreign policy from many countries. Power shifts, from the west to the east, at a pace that means that we still have to update our mental maps. Asia's great growth shifts the world's economic centre of gravity east. At the beginning of the 2010s, we talked a lot about emerging economies. At the end of the decade, it was clear that one country is much more emerging than the other: China. It's increasing major activization. The trade conflict between the United States and China is just the top of the iceberg of what is a deep strategic rivalry between Washington and Beijing. The World Trade Organisation faces major challenges. Protectionism is increasing, while the growth of world trade is falling. The most urgent challenge for the WTO is that the appeal body no longer deals with new issues. At the heart of WTO challenges is the difference in commitments between developed countries and emerging economies. The 2010s also saw the dramatic emergence of the ISIL terrorist organisation, which was able to establish a caliphate in the Middle East for a short period of time. After substantial efforts from many countries, including Norway, ISIL is now under territorial control. This does not mean, however, that the threat from ISIL is gone. Although much has happened unexpectedly, it does not mean that we should automatically change our foreign policy. One important reason for this is that several major choices have already been made – good choices, which have given us security and space for action over decades, and which have brought about major changes in our foreign, security and defence policy: We became a member of NATO in 1949. It has implications for our security policy today. We joined the EEA Agreement in 1992. It has implications for the Norwegian economy today. We always have to make adjustments, but newspaper headlines cannot be the compass of our foreign policy. We need to build a foreign policy that can last over time and endure different scenarios. It also means that we have to be able to adjust our ability to promote and protect Norwegian interests when necessary. Today’s international development makes it necessary to strengthen us because development is more demanding for a relatively small country – with a medium-sized, open economy – like ours. As part of efforts to strengthen and promote Norwegian interests, we will also look at how best to organise the EEAS. The EEAS is available for the whole of Norway: individuals, private and public sectors. Because the international situation is more demanding than before, we have just launched a review that will look at how the EEAS can become even better and more effective, in close cooperation with the other central government. Norway has succeeded in adapting its foreign policy since 1945. The broad political consensus on the principles of foreign policy has been — and is — a strength for Norway. The same applies to countries as to individuals: in more uncertain times, we focus more on the fact that the most important thing is in place — that we are safe and secure. Therefore, the year’s foreign policy presentation will have security policy as its main theme. Norway is changing, but as I was about to say, some choices have already been made, and some conditions naturally follow the location of our country, the history, the values and the governance of our country. We're part of the Nordic region. We're Europeans. We're an arctic country. We are and remain a global country. And last, but not least: we are an Atlantic country. Our longest border is not against Sweden, but against the Atlantic. The Atlantic has always played an important role for Norway. It was natural that we were among the countries that founded the North Atlantic alliance, NATO, in 1949. 71 years later, our security policy continues to be based on a fundamental premise: in crisis or war, we are dependent on allied reinforcements. In order for that line to be credible, it must be prepared in peacetime. We need strong defence and close cooperation with our allies. At the same time, we must balance deterrence with tranquillity. Also this line has long roots and broad political upswing. We are and remain a predictable actor. It is valued by allies and by neighboring countries. We must constantly be careful to give both deterrence and reassurance good conditions under the circumstances in force at all times. It's demanding. Alliance solidarity is ultimately about risking the lives of our own soldiers to defend an ally. This is the core of the committed international cooperation we have in NATO. Political cohesion must also be strong. Developments in recent years have reminded us that we need to give priority to strengthening NATO also as a political alliance. At the London Presidency meeting in December, NATO decided to conduct a reflection process, under the direction of the Secretary-General, to strengthen the political dimension of the Alliance. We are not stronger as military alliances than our political cohesion and solidarity between allies. Several countries indicate a tendency towards isolation in foreign policy. The pressure on international cooperation has increased, and political polarisation characterises the development of several countries. At such times, it is not uncommon for countries to be more committed to their own defence or cooperation in small groups. But it has to be done in a way that does not increase pressure on the common institutions even more. NATO summits have come close these last years, and for good reason: hardly any organisation has carried out major reforms than NATO in recent years. Defence and deterrence are strengthened. New plans for strengthening the Member States are in place. The preparedness and response capability have increased. Allies practice and train more together. Member States work to strengthen civil protection and create resilient societies. Norway is at the heart of this reform process. We've been working a long time to strengthen collective defence and attention to the neighbourhoods. The so-called neighbourhood initiative was taken in 2008 and was correct and necessary. In 2014, we started working on the absolutely necessary reforms for a renewed and strengthened command structure and upgrading the capacity to carry out major maritime operations. The establishment of a common headquarters for the North Atlantic is a concrete example of how we have succeeded in strengthening the maritime domain and NATO's defence capabilities in the strategically important northern regions. Burden allocation remains one of the most important issues on the NATO agenda. The theme has sometimes created friction between allies, but it is also an area of great progress. The cumulative real increase in European Allies and Canada’s defence expenditure since 2016 is now 130 billion. dollar. 9 of 29 allies now use over 2 pst. of GDP on defence. Norway is also on the right track, and in 2019 we were at about 1.8 pst. Our commitment is long-term, targeted and increases defence capabilities. Since 2013, the defence budget has increased by 12.7 billion. kr, and our investment interest is now 29,2 pst., which is far beyond NATO's 20 pst target. It's valued by our allies. Europe-US relations have become more complex. At the same time, we see a United States using NATO to advise allies on issues like energy security, the Middle East and China. The alliance is also a natural framework for transatlantic coordination and dialogue in matters of security policy which do not necessarily concern NATO directly or which do not have military answers. Disarmament, trust building and transparency measures are also very important for our security. Today, 50 years ago, the non-proliferation agreement, the NPT, entered into force. The number of nuclear weapons has been greatly reduced. It is estimated that at the height of the Cold War there were 70 000 nuclear weapons in the world, while this has now been reduced to about 200,000. 14 500. We have restricted the spread of nuclear weapons to less than a handful of new countries. The NPT is the cornerstone of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation and has ensured peaceful exploitation of nuclear power and technology. At the start of a new decade, we have a joint responsibility to ensure that the NPT remains a support bar in international disarmament and non-proliferation work. It's not obvious. Today’s security policy realities also challenge the conclusion of this important agreement. Remediation behaviour globally, political polarisation and regional tensions will affect the NPT Supervisory Conference in April. We must have realistic expectations of what can be achieved. Norway shall present proposals which are coherent and concrete. We're going to work systematically to fence around the NPT. The agreement can be seen as a basic contract between non-nuclear and nuclear weapons states, where the first give up nuclear weapons in exchange for full access to the benefits of peaceful use of nuclear power and a commitment by the nuclear weapons states to definitive nuclear disarmament. A viable non-proliferation contract requires compliance with this contractual relationship. Now, when we prepare the NPT Supervisory Conference, we take the long-term perspective into account. It is about clarity in strategic goals linked to realism and good political craftsmanship. We have to work together for this. Norway has joined 15 other countries in a two-regional group to strengthen the NPT and efforts for disarmament and arms control. Our efforts today lay the basis for real disarmament tomorrow. Both the partners themselves and the global community must be confident that agreements are accompanied by real reductions. Norway is therefore giving priority to the verification of disarmament. It makes us better able to monitor the future destruction of nuclear warheads and weapons systems. Verification is a tangible effort and one of the very few areas in the disarmament process where progress is being made. For several years, Norway has been working with close partners such as the United Kingdom, the United States and Sweden to develop technology, methodology and procedures that are relevant for verifying disarmament. We participate in the International Partnership for Disarmament Verification. Here we bring together technical expertise, nuclear disciplines and diplomats from almost 30 participating countries. Last, but not least, we work through the UN. The Norwegian-led resolution on disarmament verification was adopted by the General Assembly in December. 178 countries supported the resolution and 50 countries from all regions represented as co-sponsors. The background to this was the work of the United Nations Group of Experts on Disarmament Verification, led by Norway, and we reached an agreement. The new resolution recognises the work of the Group, calls for a new group of experts to be set up, and calls for capacity building and further efforts in the field. One of the things that makes this work particularly valuable is that it includes both nuclear and non-nuclear weapons states. The government is ready to continue the Norwegian leadership for this work. Norway joined the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, in the autumn of 2019. We're going to sit on the board until 2021. Our priorities include: strengthening the IAEA inspection system to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and we are working for increased nuclear safety to prevent the diversion of nuclear and radioactive material. The last was the theme of my own ministerial meeting, which I attended in Vienna in February. The functioning of the IAEA is essential for the implementation of the NPT. The nuclear agreement with Iran also supports the international non-proliferation regime. From the Norwegian side, we have been consistent in our support for the nuclear agreement. Although Iran has not left the nuclear agreement, developments are extremely worrying. We call on Iran to comply fully with its nuclear-related obligations under the agreement. Full and unhindered access for IAEA inspectors is essential to ensure that the international community has independent transparency in Iran’s nuclear programme. As a member of the board of directors of the IAEA, this is something we put special emphasis on. Norway has a high level of involvement in non-proliferation and disarmament, including: Our presidency in the Hague Code against the spread of ballistic missiles. More disarmament and arms control regimes are under pressure. New Start, the nuclear disarmament agreement between the United States and Russia, which limits the number of strategic nuclear weapons deployed, expires in 2021. The agreement has an important stabilising function. We encourage both parties to continue New Start beyond 2021. We also see renewed discussions on the Open Skies agreement. The agreement allows the parties to monitor and document military activity in other Member States through overflights. We need to protect the Open Skies agreement, which promotes trust building and transparency. In order for the agreement to work, all countries must comply with the obligations. It is a clear message that Norway is addressing the countries concerned and that will be a key point for us towards the April Supervisory Conference. Europe is our continent. Many of our like-minded partners are here in Europe. We share fundamental values and interests. European cooperation is becoming increasingly important for Norway, not least in order to promote international cooperation. Norwegian participation in European cooperation, through the EEA, Schengen and close dialogue on foreign and security policy, is important for addressing global threats – from terrorism to climate change. In 2020, all countries shall update or notify new targets under the Paris Agreement. If the world is to achieve the agreement's temperature targets, all countries must increase their ambitions. It is particularly important that the major emissions countries take the lead, including the EU. Norway has already notified to the UN a target of reducing emissions by at least 50 pst. and up to 55 pst. compared to 1990 levels. Norway also provides significant climate funding to developing countries. European cooperation on an ambitious climate policy contributes to technology development and helps us meet the commitments under the Paris Agreement. Norway will support, and may also benefit from, the EU’s large-scale green reform programme, the European Green Deal. The initiative appears to be a shift in the pace of European climate and environmental cooperation. At the same time, it will strengthen European competitiveness. The full scope of EU policies is being mobilised. The instruments range from legislation, programmes and financial incentives to international trade agreements and diplomacy. We have to be a partner for the EU in this work, and the EEA funds will be an important instrument. European cooperation on the green shift will also be a topic in my presentation on important EU and EEA issues in ours. Following President Erdogan's statement last week that Turkey will not stop migrants from crossing the southern Schengen border, we are following the situation closely. Turning refugees and migrants into a means of political pressure is not acceptable. Norway fully supports the EU in this matter. The EU and Schengen countries cannot give in to the political pressure. Turkey must comply with the EU-Turkey declaration of 2016. In this cooperation there is also clear solidarity with Turkey, which has received almost four million refugees. Norway draws quota refugees from the region, which, together with contributions from other countries, also dampens the pressure on Turkey. All Schengen countries are obliged to carry out effective controls at the EU's external border. The boundary between Greece and Turkey is not open. People who are currently trying to cross the EU border are fewer in number than what is claimed by Turkish teams. But of course, this can change quickly. The situation in Idlib is not now directly related to the latest arrivals from Turkey to Greece. The last migrants who have come to the border with Greece appear mainly to be of nationalities other than acids. Norway, as a Schengen country, attended yesterday's extraordinary meeting of Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs in Brussels with Minister of Justice Mæland. The declaration of the meeting fully supports Greece and establishes the need for cooperation with countries on the Western Balkans and the importance of effective border control. Greece has requested assistance through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, where Norway also contributes. In order to assist the Greek authorities, Norway, with humanitarian funds from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, has offered beds, mattresses and tents from the Civil Defence Central Repository. Norway shall also provide expert assistance for document control, identification and interviews in Frontex. We will also continue our efforts to assist the asylum system in Greece through the EEA funds. One of the projects is the establishment of 300 reception points for minor asylum seekers in Greece. This is a concrete and tangible contribution to the situation. For the current programming period, it is set to around 350 million. to assist Greece with various aspects of migration management. In addition, several Norwegian universities and Directorates are directly involved as experts. We also provide substantial humanitarian support to Syria and neighbouring countries. Norway strengthens cooperation with the EU on security and defence. Through the EEA Agreement, we participate in EU cooperation on defence research. We are also involved in European cooperation on social security and preparedness. This is important in a wide range of areas, ranging from the transport of high-infection patients to the use of forest fire helicopters. We are also working for Norwegian participation in individual projects under PESCO, the deepened defence cooperation in the EU. In particular, projects to promote military mobility in Europe are of interest. Norway has a great deal of experience and competence here, and mobility across borders is also very important for NATO. Together with allies, we will help complement – not overlap – the future defence and security ambitions of NATO and the EU. It is important that new forms of cooperation support the security architecture we already have. Africa is our neighboring continent. Peace and development are crucial both for Africa itself and for us and the rest of the world. The EU is now developing a new African strategy with this recognition at the bottom: the future of Europe and Africa is closely linked. We continue to develop our security policy cooperation with key European allies, such as Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and France, as well as the Nordic countries. We have close bilateral defence cooperation with Germany, through inter alia: acquisition of German submarines, other material and logistical cooperation and close operational cooperation. Our security policy cooperation with the United Kingdom is very good, and it will continue to be after Brexit. France has taken initiatives to strengthen cooperation between European allies, including: through the European intervention initiative. Norway joined, together with many allies and partners, in the fall. We hope the initiative will in the long term improve Europe's ability to deal with crises. Nordic defence cooperation, NORDEFCO, is also a valuable forum for defence and security dialogue as a complement to our NATO membership. Increased Nordic practice cooperation has also strengthened the security policy links between the Nordic countries, the United States and the United Kingdom. Nordic cooperation in social security and preparedness, the so-called Haga cooperation, is also important. Last autumn, there was agreement to strengthen this further, in areas such as forest fires and emergency communications. Brexit has been high on the government's agenda for the last three and a half years. The United Kingdom’s announcement of the EU has been demanding for all parties, but we have prepared well, and we will get it back for now. Together with the other two EEA/EFTA countries, we negotiated our own agreement with the United Kingdom, which I signed in London a few days before Britain formally left the EU in January. The agreement reflects the relevant parts of the EU and United Kingdom outsourcing agreement and ensures inter alia: the right of continued residence, work and establishment of Norwegian citizens using those rights before the end of the transitional period. In addition, last year the United Kingdom passed a law making the transitional period applicable also to Norway, so that all Norway’s agreements with the EU that regulate our relationship with the United Kingdom will continue to do just that year. The EU and the United Kingdom will now negotiate the future relationship between them. Monday this week was the first negotiating meetings. A key question will be how far it is possible to reach within the year, and thus the transition period, is over. So far, the parties have had a significant distance between positions. This applies not only to individual areas, but also to the very question of what kind of agreement they want to get in place, and what the content of it will be. The extent of the agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom could also have an impact on Norway. The list of policy areas of arrangements and cooperation that will expire at the end of the transitional period if no agreement is reached is long: transport, climate, fisheries, police and judicial cooperation, data exchange, defence, foreign and security policy, migration, etc. The extent to which this will be incorporated into the EU-UK free trade agreement will be negotiated, what may require own agreements, and what may not require contractual solutions. In this unbridled landscape, we must set out our own course. Because the United Kingdom also leaves the EEA by leaving the EU, much of our contractual basis for current relations with the United Kingdom will disappear at the end of the transitional period. The government is going to the negotiations with the United Kingdom with a view to setting up a contract agency that replaces what we have today and maintains a close relationship with the United Kingdom. We propose that parts of these negotiations take place together with our EEA/EFTA partners Iceland and Liechtenstein, in particular the prime ministers of the three countries have discussed that this may be relevant to the negotiations on a free trade agreement. Other parts of the negotiations would be right to handle bilaterally. On October 25, together with guests from Russia, we marked 75 years ago the Red Army had driven about 200,000 German soldiers on the run and the churches were liberated. October 25 was an expression of the story we have in common with Russia, and of the cooperation between our two countries. Foreign Minister Lavrov and I also had good political talks in the churches, where we, among other things, agreed to resume the bilateral human rights consultations. The human rights situation in Russia is very worrying. We will continue to address our concerns about the negative development of human rights with Russia. In February, Foreign Minister Lavrov sent a letter on Russian operations at Svalbard, and the letter received a lot of attention in the media. The views expressed in the letter have been regularly taken up by the Russian side over several decades and are well known to the Norwegian authorities. In my answer I repeat Norwegian views and positions that are also well known for the Russian side. I would like to stress that it is not relevant to consult with other countries on how we exercise powers in our own areas, neither in Svalbard nor in the country. This is also well known by the Russian authorities. In this context, it is important to stress that practical cooperation between Russian actors and Norwegian authorities at Svalbard is good and that Russian businesses respect Norwegian authority. The relationship between the West and Russia continues to be marked by the strained security policy situation in Europe and a significant gap in value and interest. Unfortunately, the security policy situation has remained unchanged since my last presentation. Russia continues its extensive military modernisation, not least in the north. Modernisation strengthens Russia's military capability in our neighbourhoods. This has consequences for us, even if it is not directly directed at Norway. Together with NATO-enemyed rhetoric from official Russian teams, Russia’s military structure and lack of transparency on military practice contribute to uncertainty and poorer cooperation climate. Security policy stability is also weakened by Russia’s breach of the INF Agreement and the development of new weapons systems not covered by current arms control agreements. We are concerned about this development, and we will continue to cooperate with our allies against Russian behaviour that harms the security and stability of other countries. We will continue to support Ukraine's sovereignty, territorial integrity and the right to determine its own foreign policy course. We will therefore continue our restrictive measures relating to the conflict in eastern Ukraine until the Minsk agreements have been implemented. Our position on Russia's international annexation of Crimea remains unchanged. At the same time, I would like to stress that the bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia is marked by the will of both sides to resolve common problems. Practical cooperation with Russia works well, for example: on fisheries management, nuclear safety and search and rescue in the northern seas. This is a good illustration of what we can achieve through involvement at local, regional and central level. Both bilaterally and multilaterally, inter alia: Through Arctic Council, we will work with Russia and other countries to develop the North. Norway recently took over the Presidency of the Barents Council and will use this period to focus on people-to-people cooperation, knowledge development and health. Barents' cooperation complements our bilateral cooperation and creates contact and engagement across the North's borders, both locally, regionally and centrally. Contact with Russia at political level is necessary to further develop concrete cooperation based on common interests. It is also necessary to work towards a safer and more predictable security policy situation in Europe. I have met my colleague Sergei Lavrov several times in the last year and am planning to visit Moscow later this year for new talks with the Russian authorities. Cross-border cooperation in the north is at the core of Norway’s foreign policy. Today, the Arctic and the North are essentially a peaceful and stable region characterised by opportunities, cooperation and compliance with international law. The Arctic is not a illustrious space, as it is sometimes claimed. We do not need any new legal structures or new international mechanisms. Entrepreneurs who show interest in the Arctic must adhere to international law, which is fully applicable in the Arctic. They also need to align with the current governance mechanisms. Norway is a small country with an open economy and a strategically important location. In such a situation, dialogue and international cooperation are important. A major effort is being made in bilateral relations and multilateral structures such as the Arctic Council and Barents Cooperation. Also in the north, we actively contribute to a regulated world order. An Arctic with common rules creates predictability and stability. International law — including the law of the sea — constitutes a solid legal framework between the countries of the north. There will also be a main message in the big news about the northern regions that the government intends to present to the autumn. China has always had an impact on our security, mainly as a result of the fact that the two defining dimensions of European security policy – the United States and Russia – are also Pacific powers. Today, the impact is more direct. China has become the world's largest trading and shipping nation, the world's second largest economy and military power and a technological giant. In more and more areas – economically, technologically and militarily – China appears to be a challenge to American domination, and we see an increase in major activism. China wants to increasingly express international cooperation in line with its interests. It's in many ways natural. Stormpowers have always done this. But we have – at least for the last 30 years – been used to the fact that tone-setting countries have shared our political values. With China, there are important areas, not least in terms of human rights, where there is a significant distance. But countries far away are also more important to our security because Norway is changing. Today, we are part of a global market where companies from different countries – including China – compete for contracts of importance for our social security. At the same time, the distinction between State security and social security in several areas has become less clear. We have to take this seriously, but we also have to be content with our assessments. Europe’s main safety challenges will remain in our neighbourhoods. The United States remains our most important ally. We are totally dependent on global markets to trade goods and services and produce new technologies that can solve future challenges. Nor can the greatest challenge of our time – climate change – be solved without cooperation with China. But if the relationship with China is going to continue to produce good results, as it's already done in the last decades, the right conditions must be present. We need to protect the multilateral system and seek to include China where possible. We must continue to expect China to respect human rights. Norway is clear, not least when China's footprint now increases also in our part of the world. Together with other Nordic countries, we have clear expectations that everyone, including the major powers, respects the values and driving rules of our liberal democracies. For at least a hundred years we have operated on three so-called military domains: air, sea and land. Today, several countries operate with two domains: the outer space and the digital space. In 2016, NATO defined the digital space to be defended by a new domain alliance. Much of the technological basis for the Internet was laid in the U.S. Defence Research Department in the 1960s. In 1973, two places outside the United States were connected to this network: University College London and the research institute NORSAR at Kjeller, so you can really be sure that we've been in Norway since the Internet's early childhood. Today, Norway is one of the world’s most digitised and technologically advanced societies. Digital network technology is today the basis for the organisation and functioning of our entire society. However, digitised societies can also be vulnerable, not least when some countries disregard existing standards and rules and use digital instruments for undermining purposes. They carry out operations against the infrastructure, business and political interests of other countries. The potential for conflict is great. The risk of error calculations and unintended consequences is high. There is an international consensus that international law applies in the digital space, although there is a somewhat different view of what it implies in practice. Some countries wish to establish a new legally binding international framework. The Government considers that, in principle, new international agreements are not necessary or desirable for the behaviour of States in the digital space. Such initiatives may help to raise the profile of the application of existing rules and weaken their respect. The challenge is not that established rules and standards are inadequate but that not all countries comply with them. These countries must be held responsible. Since 2004, several UN expert groups have discussed guidelines for responsible State behaviour in the digital space. A new such expert group was set up in 2019 and includes for the first time a Norwegian representative. We will use our voice, in the UN and in other international arenas, to promote a digital world order in accordance with the rules of international law. The Afghan people deserve peace. I was present in Doha when the agreement between the United States and the Taliban was signed on Saturday. This agreement, together with the United States Joint Declaration and the Afghan Government in Kabul, has given renewed hope of peace in Afghanistan. Qatar has contributed to successful negotiations. However, this is only a first step on a long and very difficult road to peace. We call on the Afghan parties to start direct peace negotiations between the Afghan authorities, the Taliban and other Afghan representatives. Talks must include women and minorities. It is important that the parties in time keep the level of violence down, creating an atmosphere that allows for real peace talks. We've seen an escalation of violence in the last few days, and it's worrying. Norway supports a further peace process, but the parties must take responsibility for finding a peace solution. We have agreed to contribute if they so wish, including as a host for intra-Afghan negotiations. Afghanistan has progressed since 2001, not least in terms of human rights in general and women’s rights in particular, but the challenges remain high. Afghanistan is still a very poor country and will need support for many years to come, even after a possible peace agreement. Recently we have seen a positive development in a more democratic and peaceful direction in both Sudan and Ethiopia. The development is hopeful, but it is also vulnerable and fragile. We must support positive forces and democratic reform in this critical phase. The images from the desperate situation in Idlib Province over the past few weeks are a strong reminder that the conflict in Syria is far from over. In the Syrian crisis, international society has failed. The UN Security Council is paralysed by the fact that Russia and their allies have vetoed a total of 14 motions for resolutions designed to remedy the situation. Syrian authorities ignore their responsibility to protect their own people. Constructive attempts to find sustainable policy solutions are systematically undermined. In addition, terrorist groups such as ISIL and Al Qaida have subjected the civilian population to assault. The situation in Syria was acutely aggravated by the Syrian air attack on Turkish positions on 27 February. Turkey and Syria are now engaged in active warfare against each other over large parts of Northwest Syria. It is a very worrying escalation. The military offensive of the Syrian regime and its supporters, such as Russia and Iran, causes totally unacceptable suffering. The struggles must stop immediately, and humanitarian actors must have unrestricted access to assist and protect civilians. Norway supports the United Nations’ efforts to find a lasting and political solution to the conflict in Syria. Today President Putin and President Erdogan meet to discuss the situation in Idlib and any truce. That's absolutely necessary. At the end of 2019, the government fulfilled the promise we made in 2016 to grant 10 billion. D over four years of assistance to the people of Syria and to neighbouring countries who have received very many Syrian refugees. We will continue to be a significant contributor to the humanitarian response to the Syrian crisis. In addition to fulfilling the promise we made in 2016, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs recently transferred 77 million. to respond to the acute humanitarian situation in the Idlib province. Yemen, according to the UN, has the greatest humanitarian crisis in the world. The crisis is man-made and a result of the war. Yemen is an extremely demanding country to work in for the humanitarian organisations that Norway supports. Lack of security and bureaucratic barriers severely restrict access to all those in need of humanitarian assistance and protection. It is therefore essential to make progress in efforts to initiate political talks. The parties to the conflict must respect humanitarian law and human rights and ensure humanitarian access to the civilian population. Yemen is among the countries receiving the most humanitarian aid from Norway. For the past two weeks, I have been on two longer trips to the Middle East – first to Saudi Arabia and Israel/Palestina and then to Jordan this week. The American proposal for a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was presented on 28 January and has been an important part of the discussions I have had with my colleagues and other actors in the region these two weeks. The main lines of the Norwegian involvement to contribute to a resolution of the conflict are fixed. There is only one negotiated two-state solution between Israel and Palestine that can create lasting peace between the parties. In order for a two-state solution to be sustainable, it must be in line with international law. We have warned against unilateral acts, such as annexation. Any initiative to resume the peace process must reflect the broad international consensus defined in the Oslo agreements and in the UN Security Council resolutions. At a time when international cooperation is under considerable pressure, the government has spent the past few months on concrete measures that in various ways try to strengthen precisely international cooperation. Let me briefly mention some of these: We strengthen cooperation with countries that have a common interest in avoiding a world governed by the principle that power is right, among other things. we have taken a Nordic-Africa initiative to support multilateral cooperation in 2019. The initiative also contributes to strengthening political cooperation with African countries in addition to traditional development cooperation. Together with like-minded countries, we continue to work to reform and strengthen the World Trade Organisation. A central part of the cooperation shall be to ensure that members are settled between themselves, including in those days when the appeal body is put out of action. Unfortunately, great progress is not likely to be made at the WTO conference in Kazakhstan this summer, but we have a clear objective of contributing to the successful conclusion of negotiations on fisheries subsidies. We have also organised three major international conferences in Oslo. In May, together with Somalia, Iraq, the United Arab Emirates, the United Nations and the International Red Cross Committee, Norway organised a conference to combat sexualised and gender-based violence in humanitarian crises. In October, we organized our Ocean Conference to find solutions for the healthy, clean and productive seas. The conference brings together representatives from over 100 countries, as well as business, researchers and civil society. In November, as a presidency of the Mine Convention, we were responsible for the fourth Supervisory Conference. The conference contributed, inter alia: to increase progress in mine clearance, so that more countries can reach the mine-free target by 2025. The hosting of these three conferences provides valuable results, and it is a concrete follow-up to the call for multilateral cooperation. Norway and the Nordics are Nordic, European and Atlantic, but also global. We have never been a passive spectator to the emergence of global rules and structures. We are actively involved in building them. We're doing it because it's in Norwegian interest, and we're doing it because we want a world where we're going right in front of power. We do it because a world of common rules creates predictability and stability. In the long run, it is in the interest of both small and large countries. Today's pressure on international structures is more fundamental than ever. The government works to defend and reform committed international cooperation and take our share of responsibility. This is one of the reasons why we are making elections in the UN Security Council for the period 2021-2022. If we are elected, we as a member of the Security Council will be clear and recognizable. International law, including human rights, international humanitarian law and the humanitarian principles, shall be the basis for everything Norway does in the Security Council. We will work to ensure that all resolutions adopted by the Security Council are in line with current international law, including the principles enshrined in the UN Charter. Norway pursues a recognisable foreign policy. This consistency makes us feel the same about key issues during the campaign that we did before, and we're going to think the same thing if we get elected. For example, our criticism of individual human rights violations is as clear now as before. Of course, there are some countries that dislike, but they know what they get, because they've got the same criticism before. That there is broad consensus in this room on candidacy is a strength for the campaign. We have been open about, and regularly published, the costs associated with the campaign. This is new work from Norway, and we hope that several countries will do the same. Our knowledge and experience provide good conditions for putting emphasis on the work of the Security Council. Firstly, few, if any, other elected members have similar networks and experience in the field of peace diplomacy. As a member of the Security Council, we will use the experience and insight of our peace diplomacy and commitment to strengthen the Council's efforts in conflict prevention and conflict resolution. As an impartial, but not neutral, facilitating peace processes, we will face important and demanding balances in this work. Secondly, we will work towards a greater degree of climate-related security threats on the agenda of the Security Council. Climate change is not a traditional security policy threat, but it can reinforce the impact of other challenges that have consequences for peace and security. Nevertheless, it has been arduous to put this on the agenda of the UN Security Council, since several of the permanent members believe it falls outside the mandate of the Security Council. The participation of women is a third area in which Norway has special competence. For decades we have been working to ensure women's participation in peace processes in which we have been involved. This concerns, among other things: to ensure the rights and participation of women and to ensure their respect for the UN peace and security efforts. Fourth, Norway will work on a broad front with civil protection, with a particular effort to combat sexualised violence in conflicts. This will be a practical way of promoting human rights and the enforcement of humanitarian law. If we get into the Security Council, we will be creative, listening and working with countries both inside and outside the Council. As a small country, we can work differently than large countries. Our campaign is on the go, but there are three countries competing for two places. Our competitors, Ireland and Canada, are also very strong. The elections will take place at the UN General Assembly in June. We have a tradition in Norway to take international responsibility. It's a tradition government continues and reinforces. We help reform international organisations and find new ways of working with other countries. We take the initiative and use our expertise and our network to find new entrances to fixed problems. We best care for Norwegian and global interests through committed international cooperation because our space for foreign policy action has always been defined by our ability to form alliances. Norway is — and will remain — one of the world’s best countries to live in. At the start of a new decade, 2020, we are well equipped to meet tomorrow's challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e403	The foreign policy statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs is being discussed in a subsequent meeting of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e419	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good, constructive, but also demanding cooperation in a very serious matter, one that is about many people, and that has greatly influenced their lives. It has led many people to prison, have had to repay large amounts of money, have ended up in debt schemes, and not least have had to live with great shame. This is a matter on which the Stortinget and the Committee have spent a lot of time, and there is an overall political Norway that wants to get to the bottom of it. The country was informed about this matter through a press conference and a press release on 28 October 2019. The press release stated the following: ‘The rules for including sick pay, redundancy benefits and care allowance from Norway to another EEA country while living in Norway have not been properly practised since the EU Social Security Regulation came in 2012.’ The Storting was then informed by a statement on 5 November by the then State Council Anniken Hauglie. In that statement, she focused on the process of incorporating the Social Security Regulation in 2012, on some aspects up to 2017 and on the course of events up to the press conference held last October. She also said that there might be a need to go further back in time. It's this statement that the Control and Constitutional Committee was sent from the Storting and that we've laid the foundation for our work. Through the process, we have asked many questions, particularly to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, but also to the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister. We also held a hearing over two days on 9 and 10 January this year. This is a matter that has created enormous commitment, both in the people, in the media and in political Norway. There has also been a discussion on whether one could be sure of the assessment that EEA legislation has actually been misapplied, on how far back in time it may have been possible that errors have been committed, and on whether the old regulation could also have been misapplied. These are big and important questions. The Committee has taken the view that our main focus in this round is from the 2011/2012 implementation and process. On 8 November, the government appointed a committee of inquiry, which was mandated to conduct a thorough and complete investigation of this matter, in which all sides were to be highlighted. As everyone is well aware, the first interim report from this sample was submitted yesterday. These include: found out there is that a unanimous selection believes that the legislation has been misapplied. It was a useful clarification to get, even though the sample underlines that they do not determine the legal status. We in Stortinget have consistently based on the assessment made by the government, which was made during the presentation, and that it was correct. Yesterday we received a confirmation of this. The interim report also stated that it is important to go back in time. We assume that the Stortinget will receive the complete report later, which also goes back to before 2012. The Committee has in its position some common considerations – or comments, to use the correct word – that we agree on, but we do not agree on everything. In any case, the most important thing we agree on is how serious this case is, and that the injustice that has been committed against individuals must be corrected. I now want to take a quick review of the timeline in the matter, from when the concerns surrounding the practice of the code began to be serious. The majority is aware that from 2014/2015 some questions began to be asked internally in Nav, but that it was only when, in the period from June 2017 to March 2018, the Social Security Court issued several rulings on which Nav’s refusals were referred to for reassessment because of lack of or misassessment, it really began to worry. In November 2017, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare was briefed by the Nav Board of Appeal on what had happened in the Social Security Court. One year after this, i.e. in November 2018, the Social Security Court takes action and sends letters to one of the Boards of Appeal that they wish to go to the EFTA Court. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is then asked to discuss this here. From January 2019 until October there is a lot going back and forth. The Committee has reviewed the correspondence that has been available and given to us from this period. I'll say, things take time. There are long periods of dialogue between the different actors in several rounds of correspondence, and there is also confusion in this period around short and long stays. The Committee has pointed out, inter alia, that: that, in March 2019, the Ministry concluded that short-stay had been practised incorrectly, but not until August, it was concluded that this was also a longer stay. It's quite a long time, from March 5 to August 30. In the Committee, we do not fully agree on when one believes that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the Nav Director and others should have called for an alarm, and when one should have certain things. As everyone is well aware, the government parties and the Progress Party focus to a large extent on the time before 2012, while we, the majority of us in the Committee, have focused in particular on the actual handling of the matter, when it was or should have been discovered. I will therefore now focus on the majority in the Committee's assessment, because the minority has plenty of time to review their views on this matter after me. For us who are in the majority, but who are in the minority of the Storting, it has been important to establish that we are to go back in time, and that of course we will look critically at errors that may have been made in the past. We believe that this is precisely why we have the review committee, which should get everything on the table with regard to the time before 2012, and yesterday we were told that they should do exactly that. The majority of the committee believes that the mispractice could have been discovered in the past, and we wonder that the rulings in the Social Security Court back to 2017 in particular did not get a single alarm to go, even though, through everything we can see and have read, there has been great internal unrest, among other things. of Nav. I am thinking in particular of how many people who could have escaped being hit if they had taken hold. I know that there were some sensations going in the opposite direction, but the discussion was going on too fully, without it being caught up in the system. I can mention, as a curiousness, that back to 2014 too, it was actually a confession that lifted Nav's decision, but from 2017, I and we believe that things should have happened. It is a rather long period from June 2017 to August 2019, and during this period people were convicted, imprisoned and forced to repay large sums. It was quite strong to sit in the hearing we had and heard former national lawyer Tor-Aksel Busch pull out several times where he believes he could have been informed and prevented, for example. Prisoners. He referred back to the Court of Social Security until 2017, when, in 2018, the Social Security Court would go to the EFTA Court, and also in January 2019, when matters were suspended. He was not formally informed until October 2019. Just think about how many false convictions we could have escaped if he had been informed earlier. But that didn't happen. Nor when the alarm actually went off, he was informed. What has also worried several of us is that we have looked at the correspondence internally, among other things. in the hub and up to the directorate, where the turmoil is great, but where things take an incredibly long time. There are months between worries and answers. Just one example: In November 2017, the Nav Board of Appeal sends letters to the performance department, where they will inform them of many requests they have received about possible misinterpretation. They will receive answers in February 2018. We can't have it like that. To all of them in Nav I have been sitting and reading the e-mails to: I understand the despair many of you have felt, for you have taken things up. It was interesting for us to read the report to Nav's internal audit. It is not part of the official papers for us in this matter, but it was quite amazing to see how inadequate communication has been. Or rather, people have discussed and brought things up, but it hasn't moved on. It is quite amazing that concerns and questions do not go up and that there is also no contact between different actors dealing with the same issues. I'm amazed that no one is following what's going on in the Social Security Court, that the Department doesn't know any discussions going on in Nav, or that things aren't being reported when there's big, fundamental discussions going on. It's obvious that this has to do something about it. It has also been fascinating to see how much informal communication it has been, but neither is caught up in nor can it be followed by, for example. the Control and Constitutional Committee. The best example I think is that the Riks lawyer is sitting at a meeting with Nav, who knows, but doesn't say anything, while there's an informal contact in the hall afterwards. We can't have it like that. In Norway, we have been used to people having confidence in the administration and the politicians. Now I mean we've gone on a click. Many have referred to this as a Nav scandal. Yeah, it's maybe a social security scandal, but maybe most of all it's a legal scandal. People in this country should be confident that they will not be convicted innocently, convicted on the wrong basis, but that has happened in this case. What has affected me most in this matter is talking to several of the people who have been hit, who have confessed because they have been told that they have broken the law. Think about it, be the little one up against the state and be out of the chance, and you know that. Therefore: Errors must be corrected; errors must be corrected correctly. It was during the discussion of this matter that much attention was paid to whether the opposition had trusted the former government councilman Anniken Hauglie. To that I would say from the Labour Party and the majority on the Committee's side: if she had been a labour and social minister today, we would have promoted distrust proposals, simply because we think she should have caught things. It's the government council that's responsible, that should have known. When the Prime Minister chose to take Hauglie out of the government, she put herself in a situation where we have to hold her and the government responsible. This matter is very serious. One should have discovered and intervened earlier. There were so many possibilities to do something. Since the minority in the Grand Duchy is in the majority of the committee, our position is that the handling of the case is highly critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e477	It was almost unthinkable when Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Anniken Hauglie announced on 28 October 2019 that both the administration and the judicial system have had the wrong interpretation and practice of the right to take sick pay, redundancy pay and care when living in other EEA countries. Yes, it was so difficult to understand what this was about, that it would take several days for several of us to understand both the scope and the seriousness of the matter. The fact that Norwegian citizens have been mistreated by public Norway for a long time without the system being able to capture it in any way, and that the legal system has not revealed this error, is nothing less than a scandal. It also confirmed clearly to the Council of State when she came to Stortinget on 5 November to explain the matter. Councillor Hauglie concluded in his statement that this was very serious. She apologized and apologized for the wrong of individuals and families, and she made it clear that what had been discovered was taken seriously. Measures were immediately taken to correct the wrongs committed against individuals. Resources were put in place to follow them up with advice and guidance, and a re-examination of the issues that have been dealt with on a wrong basis was immediately prepared. Councillor Hauglie also set up an external investigation committee to find out why the error could occur, and that it could last so long without anyone discovering it. The aim is to acquire knowledge that can ensure that something like this cannot happen again. Internal investigations by the authorities involved could also contribute to this. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee was faced with some demanding choices when we got this case. That was the statement we received for treatment, but we knew that the investigation committee set up by the government was going to work in parallel with our treatment, and we knew that the statement had triggered a number of questions that had to be answered. However, the Committee decided to finalise the presentation as a first part of this matter. We understood that there would be difficult border crossings, and that some of the questions would need more thorough research than we in the Committee could find out. After-clock might throw a strange light on this choice, but there and then – based on what we knew then – it was a right choice. I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Eva Kristin Hansen, for a good cooperation on how to solve the work, how to organise and carry out consultation, and how we could jointly achieve effective and rapid treatment. Although some assumptions have changed along the way, the Committee has done a good job of dealing with them. However, it became early clear that in this case we would get a split position. It has been natural for the Right and the parts we are dealing with in the setting to sort out the Council of State's presentation around three phases: the inclusion of the Regulation in Norwegian law in 2012 and its preparations; the mispractice and lack of follow-up of critical voices; the clarification of wrong practices and the response and follow-up of the Council of State In addition to the presentation by the Council of State and the knowledge she imparted based on what she knew at the time, that is, 5 November, it was a very useful consultation the Committee conducted in January of this year. With regard to the inclusion of the regulation in question, there were many elusive answers in the hearing, but one thing went on: it was referred to the treatment in the Social Security Special Committee. It was therefore alarming that at the same time as everyone referred to this sample and the decision there, none of the responsible state councils were involved in the inclusion that could respond to the positions, mandates and procedures of this sample around anchoring their decisions. It has also been possible to review the assessments made, as there are no reports. This we hope the review committee can go into more detail. The hearing also confirmed that Nav asked the Ministry for clarification on several occasions before implementation in 2012, but we have not received a response to how the department followed up the questions from the department. On this basis, what could have been interpreted as a lack of follow-up to these requests, and the conclusion that the Regulation would not have any impact, has undoubtedly provided the basis for mispractice in Nav over all these years. Although, on the basis of what we have so far been told, we are tempted to conclude with criticism of the work of the departments and the handling of the state councils during this period, we will await the report of the Committee of Inquiry, and we look forward to the more thorough review of this issue by the Committee of Inquiry. Also in what we can call phase two, which is all the years of mispractice from 2012, the hearing revealed the basis for criticism. It seems quite clear that employees in Nav have asked questions on several occasions about the practice that was in force. The fact that case handlers also raise questions during this period about whether the regulation and Article 21 are being dealt with correctly should, in our opinion, trigger thorough investigations, which did not happen. On the other hand, the hearing revealed a lack of dialogue procedures both across the departments and up the system of the establishment. We record that the staff in the hearing states that the issue did not come to their table until long after, but we also record recognition that it could and should have been lifted at a much earlier time. It is good, in our opinion, for that recognition to come, but we believe it is very critical that an establishment with such a complex field of action has not established procedures and systems for dealing with such issues. The Social Security Court also acknowledged in the hearing that it was a long time before they had a unified understanding and agreed to call for the assessment of Article 21 in the cases they dealt with. I must say I am amazed that the opposition so uncritical and against better knowledge refers to June 2017 as a possible time for intervention in and conclusion on mispractice. After the first hearing in which the Social Security Court called for an assessment of Article 21, the five subsequent hearings did not take place. It was therefore only in the spring of 2018 that the Social Security Court established a unified understanding and understanding that provided the basis for reconsidering the practice. Then it must be said that this follow-up internally in Nav bears the mark of being little systematic and inefficient, and that this merges into the picture that I mentioned earlier about the lack of procedures for following up such challenges. That's not good. I also have to say that I record that the opposition in this matter takes the Riks lawyer's hearing opinions to the profit of his criticism and claim as to the time when the conclusion should be reached and the Riksadvokat should be involved. It is true that his response could be interpreted this way, but I dare say that his response to this clearly marked the post-war more than an assessment of what the responsible knew and could conclude with it at the specified time. Yes, the National Attorney could have been involved in the past, which state council Hauglie himself recognized in his answers, but it is important to get involved in what those involved had knowledge about at all times. The explanation of what the mispractice involved came bit by bit in this process, and a complete picture was clearly several times later. The legal assessments were demanding, and naturally everything had to be checked out thoroughly. The Ministry had to be sure that the conclusion was correct and that a change in practice could be justified despite the fact that the previous conclusion had been that this was not the case. Recent legal discussions within the public with experts which make clear conclusions on both the one hand and the other make it clear that these were demanding assessments and decisions. In our opinion, this underlines the unreasonableness of the criticism that Hauglie has been addressed to the Council of State that she did not react quickly enough – that she spent time making a decision to stop all ongoing issues. The first partial adjustment from the review committee, which came yesterday, also underpins the fact that the Council of State acted correctly. Then we'll see how Stortinget can get an answer from the competent forum that can confirm the correct legal conclusion. It takes all parties to calm down around this debate. The Council of State took this seriously and used the available competence to make a decision, and when it was taken, it initiated the necessary measures. Councillor Hauglie seized and had as his priority the correction of the wrong committed. She asked on behalf of the government for an apology, and she lamented that on some points it could obviously have been better and faster. It is strange to me that the state council that made decisions, immediately informed and initiated, is the number of parties in the opposition who would early remove and criticise for errors. In the period until she left as a state council when the Progress Party left the government, she actively followed up the steps she had taken, and stood with a straight back in the clearing. There are still many answers that are missing: When did it really go wrong – when was the original error that has caused accompanying errors over many years, committed? What was it that failed, so that it went wrong? Who would understand? What could have been done differently? It could also be tempting to address a number of questions about the role of the courts in this case. I'm going to let that lie now. There are many answers that need to be provided before it is correct to conclude in this case, and we are therefore looking forward to the final report of the review committee. In further consideration of this case at Stortinget it becomes necessary to see the full extent of the mispractice from the beginning to the end. We're going to get answers to many of the so far unanswered questions. It will provide a good basis for concluding the case. Today we don't have such a foundation in place. The goal must be to find out what is to be done so that something like this cannot happen again. Our citizens must be able to trust that there are good and thorough systems that take care of them in public administration, and that we have a legal system that gives them the extra security if everything else fails. This trust must be restored through thorough and good treatment and has not been served by hasty conclusions and guilt-sharing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e523	«The greatest scandal in recent times» are words that have been used on this matter. This is probably one of the biggest and most serious things we've had in recent times. There are, as many people here have been concerned about, many questions we are still asking ourselves, and many questions about how this could happen – and these are important that we get answers to. The rapporteur had an in-depth account of the Committee's work, and not least of the consensus on the seriousness of this matter, which the whole Committee is behind. When we see the extent of the case and its consequences for individuals, and when we see that Nav, the prosecution authorities and the courts have all failed, this is serious. Many people have been affected, with great and serious consequences for the individual. Then this is one of the biggest scandals in recent times. Let it be clear that the Progress Party agrees with the previous speakers that this is a very serious matter. It has been said very much about who is most critical and least critical, and that those who criticize least, do not understand the seriousness of the matter. But there should be no doubt that this is something that the Progress Party also takes seriously. For us it has been important to get a full review of the whole case, because there are still many questions that we have not received an answer to. During the hearings, it was found that, on at least two occasions, Nav called for clarifications on how the legislation should be understood – for the first time in the merger of several benefits for redundancy payments and for the second time in the implementation of EU social security regulation 883/2004. So far we have not received an answer as to why not the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs followed up these questions. Nor have we received a good enough answer on how to practice errors for such a long time in Nav, and why neither the Social Security Court, the prosecution authorities nor the courts were able to capture this earlier. Therefore, the Progress Party is pleased that the government has set up a review committee to carry out a full review of the case, so that all relevant matters are clarified. As many people have visited before today, we received the first interim report yesterday. The committee gave its answer to what many of us have wondered about, and on which it was important to get a clarification. The social security scandal is falling further in time than 2012, and I am pleased that the sample has concluded that practice needs to be reviewed before 2012. Yesterday's interim report and the work of the Review Committee show that it is important for us politicians to have some ice in their stomachs and not just run on to find a scapegoat. This matter is too serious for us to have a political game. The Progress Party finds it quite special that some parties wanted to promote mistrust proposals against former government council Hauglie while she was state council, and dates after she had left. This happens before we are certain to have all the answers to what has actually happened, and how that could happen. Although I came into this matter late, I have to say that former councillor Hauglie in this case has shown action from the time the department became aware of the seriousness of the matter. It must necessarily take some time to clarify the matter and make sure that a practice that has been in progress since at least 2012 – now it has also been established that it was in progress before 2012 – is actually wrong. From 30 August 2019 until the press conference on 28 October, two months went by. The Ministry was contacted by Nav in e-mails on 30 August and 2 September 2019, where it was informed that there was a high risk that several had received some major measures and wrongful convictions against them. At the same time, the directorate pointed out that this was something they had not informed the ministry of before. During the meeting on 13 September, Nav explained the status and the issues and that they would ask the prosecution to put ongoing cases in order. Between 17 and 19 September, Nav sent letters to the individual police districts requesting to put an end to the cases that had been reported, but where no appeal or court proceedings had yet been instituted. It is also important that we do not forget that it was only in the autumn of 2018 that the Social Security Court began to be reunited. It is easy to be after-clock and say that things could have been handled differently. The ministry should have known before, they should have briefed before. The National Attorney could have been briefed at the same time as the police districts were notified. The ministry went out publicly with the case on 28 October 2019, when this broke in the media. There are several questions we lack answers to: Why has it taken so long without anyone having understood the seriousness of the matter? How could errors have occurred this long in Nav? Why was it not possible for the Social Security Court, the prosecution authorities or the court to address the issues in the past? I guess it's so serious when the courts, which is going to be the last chance of a single person, can't capture this on their own merits. There has been criticism of former councillor Hauglie, but one must also praise her for taking such a quick decision and asking to come to Stortinget and explain the matter. That is the statement that was made on 5 November, we are discussing today – a statement of what the former Council of State did and what is being done. Nor should we forget that both the Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, and Hauglie stressed the seriousness of this matter and complained to those who have been affected. It is also important to bear in mind that action has been taken. Nav has added additional resources to review the cases. The Government has also set up a separate system of free legal assistance and a separate compensation system, which ensures that those affected are dealt with as easily and as quickly as possible. As mentioned above, a separate review committee has also been set up. This is a demanding matter, but once again I have to say that I am surprised at how bastant and sure in his case the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and Red are in this matter. Only in the last few weeks have we been given indications of doubt about the interpretation of the legislation. Even now there is a discussion about the legal basis for the Nav scandal. Some have suggested that Norway has not broken the rules. In this respect, I would like to refer to the doubts expressed by former Supreme Court judge Karl Arne Utgård regarding the interpretation of the legislation and the letter from the European Commission to Utgård, which supports the conclusions of Utgård. If it should prove that the practice and interpretation of the legislation are incorrect, it is serious, especially since this has been possible for so many years without this being revealed by neither Nav nor the courts. At this point, the sample has concluded that there have been errors. It is important that this is confirmed, so that you do not have any doubts about what is right in such a serious matter. I am therefore pleased that the Advocate General will ask the EFTA Court to give its opinion on the disputed legal aspects of the social security scandal. In addition, the district attorney will ask Borgarting Lawyers to obtain an opinion from the EFTA Court in two criminal cases. It is also part of the committee's mandate to clarify this, but I will go so far as to say that it is important that we get an opinion from the courts and the EFTA Court, so that we should not be in doubt about what is right in this case. The last words in this case have not been said. Today, we are dealing with the presentation itself, and an important work has been done in the committee, both with the hearings and with the work we have done in retrospect in the context of the presentation. It is not least important that those who have been affected by this serious matter now receive the uplift that they are entitled to and that they get a quick clarification of their situation. We got the first interim report yesterday. The final report comes on 1 June, and I look forward to this being presented and addressed in Stortinget, because it is only then that we can really go into the matter and get the answers to how this serious scandal from recent times could happen, and how we can avoid this happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e575	The matter that is being handled in Stortinget today comes on the basis of the distribution from the Government and the Government to Stortinget on 5 November 2019. The much-mentioned social security scandal, or the Nav scandal, was a fact. From the point of view of the media, this has been an enormous burden in the relationship between the state powers and all the people who have been trapped in this inferno, an inferno where the fire is still not over. The Control and Constitutional Committee was given the task of handling it on 7 November. The Committee has worked intensively and well to get an adequate overview of the case. This resulted, inter alia, in: in the course of a two-day hearing in January with several relevant parties. The case spokesperson has given us the full picture of this through his intervention in the debate here today. From the hearing in January until now there have been many changes in the matter. The government's fate was changed abruptly. Within a few days, constitutional responsibility was transferred from the Council of State to the Council of State. In parallel with the committee's management of the distribution process, the government has signalled that a review selection should review all aspects and come to the public with an explanation of why this situation could arise. Yesterday we were told through the media that the case has dimensions that extend back to before 2012. In fact, the very essence of the matter may extend as far back as the ratification of the EEA Agreement in Stortinget. Already here, the Stortinget has indirectly been aware that EEA law intervenes in national laws and leads to a conflict of laws. But this doesn't change the size of the image in any way. The Nav scandal, or the social security scandal, has caused a number of people big, negative consequences. And I want to take advantage of the occasion from the pulpit here today to cause all the negative influences that individuals and families have experienced. It's unworthy, as it looks now, that many have been misjudged and not least abandoned by the state for the repayment of social benefits in an already vulnerable life situation. In this case, the Central Party is behind the recommendation that the government’s management of Nav’s practice of EU social security regulation 883/2004 should be seen as highly critical. In the setting, we write that all three state powers — magnificence, government and judiciary — have failed to take into account the fact that EEA law provides for national legislation. In this matter, the Council of State has come to Stortinget and briefed on a serious error handled by the Control and Constitutional Committee through letter and hearing. Government council Hauglie no longer meets in Stortinget on behalf of the government, but the government is still responsible for handling the cases. The legal assessment on the basis of which the Council of State interprets whether the law holders of the People's Security Act on detention in Norway are in breach of EU Social Security Regulation 883/2004 is a document from the Public Prosecutor to which the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the Stortinget have not otherwise been given access. The case management in this case has been characterised by sommel, confusion and lack of responsibility and power in the lease both in the government and in the directorate. It is not the concern of those who depend on our welfare system, who have been decisive for decisions and progress in the matter. The national lawyer, who quickly changed the wrong convictions, was informed too late and in an insubordinate form. The government hides important documents in the matter behind locked doors and sees a lack of respect for the role of Inspector of the Storting. In this setting, we point to the people's responsibility for ensuring the rights and the legal security of the population through the use of available information to fix their own mistakes as quickly as possible rather than placing responsibilities with others. Information as a basis for democratic transparency and control is fundamental to our democratic system. This is consideration that must be taken particularly when serious violations of the individual's rights and legal certainty are detected, as in this case. This is a case that requires a case that re-establishes trust in Nav, in the courts and in the political environment. We have not yet seen such a process. From the centre party's side, we have pointed out that the case shows that in the future, a debate on how Nav works in order to follow up the rights and duties of its users as a foundation in the welfare state is of particular importance. One of the original requirements for Nav organisation was that new interfaces should not be created that provide new coordination needs and open up new gaming situations. In this case, they have been throwing balls in a hub that have not been able to coordinate their own follow-up. We also point out that the party supporting the EEA Agreement has underestimated its relationship with the EEA. The relationship between Norwegian legislation and EEA law should have been more thoroughly discussed and more seriously both in the inclusion of Norway in the EEA Agreement itself and – not least – in the individual regulation. The fact that EEA legislation intervenes in national legislation and is implemented if there is a contradiction between the two sets of rules has been known since 1994. But we have not taken into account that this implies new and more complex legal assessments that have been adapted after the agreement by the Norwegian legislative model or the legal environment. There is little or no doubt that the Stortinget must take up the debate on both the Norwegian legislative model and the organisation in Nav is functioning for the first time. As I said in the debate in Stortinget on 4 February, this matter is also about restoring trust between the Norwegian people and politicians by performing well-organised parliamentary work. We must do this by seeing the consequences of the decisions taken from 1994 until now, through a case-handling process that slows down the inferno that has been experienced by all those who have been subject to the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e613	This case is about the 78 people who have been convicted of social security fraud — innocent people who have been hit by state arrests — for example. about the grandfather who had to hide from his grandchildren that he was going to prison. It's about the 2,000 people who have received incorrect repayments, many of them on large sums, who have led people to go from house to home, to economic ruin, and many of them still can't do basic things, like getting a phone subscription, because of payment notes. Then it's also about the thousands of people, an unknown number, who have been denied their right to travel, as she would travel to visit her sister who was at the end of her life. Therefore, this case has always been primarily a matter of cleaning up, uplifting and justice for the victims. That's priority number one. One of the big questions is how people may have been convicted incorrectly year after year without it being revealed. Is it random that there are precisely users of Nav, people with disease, people who need help, who have been hit, without anyone having been able to reveal it for so many years, neither government, greatness, the courts, nor the media? This is where it stinks of class light in this case. Because it is obvious to most of us that it would have been the rich and the powerful who had been unjustly prosecuted over so many years, yes, then it would have been revealed. They had the money to pay dearly for lawyers who could eventually discover the EEA acquis. It even said the Secretary-General of the Association at the hearing at Stortinget on this matter. It throws a serious sentence on our justice system. It clearly states that legal certainty is a classy good thing in Norway, especially when the free legal aid system has remained silent in recent years, so that more and more people are falling outside. That's why one of the most important lessons from this scandal is that we have to do something, so people get equal legal certainty regardless of the wallet. Another lesson is that we need to talk about and treat those who need help from Nav in a better way. Year after year, the debate on Nav users has been increasingly influenced by suspicion. Users are suspected of being not really sick, of being smart, and words that Navs have got into the debate. Suspicion has increasingly followed stricter control regimes by users and increasingly new tightening and cutting, e.g. in redundancy pay. Nav has been rigged more and more to take people instead of helping people. At the same time, a violent target management regime has developed with large distances between front and top. At the hearing, the employees' representatives were clear that all this has also contributed to the matter we are dealing with today. That's why it's so obvious that one of the lessons we have to draw from this is that there's a need for trust reform in Nav. This scandal is a massive matter. Yesterday the review committee came with its first interim report that also shows it. It was quite clear that there has actually been a legal error in this case, that people have been convicted innocently. It's a nice clarification to get. And then it points out that the error mainly dates back to 1994, when Norway signed the EEA Agreement. There's a big expansion of this case, which makes it just bigger, and points out that even more probably have been hit. That is why there is a lot in this case that we cannot yet say anything certain about from the control committee or from the Stortinges in general, especially about what has happened further in time. But I want to be quite clear on one thing, and that is that in SV we look critically at any errors and deficiencies that have been made, also in the government we put in. The seriousness of this case is too great to put party politics damper on the criticism of the Stortinget. The questions we have so far still have to be answered and we need to have a proper treatment of when the review committee comes with its final report. But the matter we are dealing with today has a clear definition. It is the former State Council Anniken Hauglies' report on the social security scandal of the Stortinget, and it covers the period from 2012 to 2019. In the treatment we have done on the matter, it has been natural to focus in particular on the last few years, on why the scandal was not revealed before, whether the government has handled the matter correctly, and not least on the political responsibility for the biggest legal security scandal in Norway after the war. The period from June 2017, when the Social Security Court comes up with its first rulings repealing Nav’s decision and refers to Article 21 of the EU Social Security Regulation, until now is particularly important. Then the alerts really start coming, but the matter is not revealed in its full seriousness until August 2019. So what's really the nucleus of this case? Well, it's that there's been several state crimes against innocent people that could have been prevented. The big alarm in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs could and should have gone before. If the Minister of Labour had responded earlier to the information they actually had, more people could have avoided being convicted. Former Attorney General Tor-Aksel Busch was clear in the hearing of the Control Committee that there were a number of intersections in this case where the department was also involved and had information, and where the Office of the Advocate General could and should be informed. Why is that important? Well, because, as Busch said, if his office had been told about the verdicts of the Social Security Court, about the uncertainty in Nav, about the information the Department actually put on at these intersections, he had had a duty to do two things: stop new cases going on in court, and take up again and investigate old cases. It had revealed the seriousness. An important point of intersection is the year-end 2018–2019. On 20 December, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs receives a letter from Nav that outlines two options for the current uncertainty. One is that the error only applies to so-called short-term temporary stays, while the other option outlined is at the bottom of the social security scandal. In November of the same year, the Ministry also received an e-mail from Nav that mentions a specific social security order, in which the Social Security Court repeals Nav's decision against a person who has temporarily resided abroad. There were several stays, one of them was a longer, temporary stay over such a long time that it was so big a sum that this person would normally be convicted of social security fraud. However, a few weeks later, the Department settles down with the least dramatic conclusion and does not share this information and assessments with the Office of the National Attorney. Here the alarm could and should have gone, and many people would have been rescued from the murder of the judiciary. Another point of intersection to which the former national lawyer also pointed was the spring of 2019, when the department agrees that Nav should change its practice. That information should have his office. This could also have led to the seriousness being revealed. But the government doesn't inform the National Attorney's office. Instead, the three things focus on Nav that have serious consequences. They say that the practical conversion will only apply in the future. This means that Nav does not go back and find reviews. They use the term ‘short-term, temporary stay’, and it was in the longer stays with larger sums of money that there were reports and cases in the judiciary. The Ministry also stresses the need for control measures, so that it is not open for more people to travel with benefits to other EEA countries – a clear signal to Nav. This is evident in, for example: Nav’s internal audit report that all three of these conditions delay to reveal the seriousness of the case. New time is running out, while people get new refunds and get innocently convicted. Yes, even on 16 September last year, long after the alarm had apparently gone to the government, a person is tried and convicted of social security fraud. Nav knows about the trial, meets the department on 13 September, but does not stop the trial because the department had to investigate the matter any more. The person is sentenced to 90 days in prison. It is quite clear that several murders could have been avoided, that the government could and should have called an alarm at a number of different times in this timeline. Only it is so serious and with so many consequences for them that there is reason for SV's conclusion in this case. But there are obviously a number of other things you can mention, a number of other worsening circumstances and conditions in this case. We have also revealed in this discussion that the Minister of Labour and the Government have far on the way to misleading the Storting on several points – in the statement by the former government council Hauglies and when the government made a roll-out in 2017 that lacked critical information for the Storting decision. The first is that an important part of Anniken Hauglies’ explanation of why the alarm did not go before is that the department was only aware of mispractice in relation to short-term temporary stays in the EEA until August 2019. In her statement to the Stortinget, she says that her department was only informed of such brief, temporary stay of a few weeks. Nevertheless, on 27 November 2018, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs received a Social Security Order, which I have mentioned, which thus lifted Nav's decision on a case for a five-month stay, with reference to the EU Social Security Regulation. What Hauglie said in the statement, therefore, is not correct. And the second: In 2017, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs promotes a proposition that legislates a four-week roof to receive redundancy payments abroad. The proposal does not mention the social security regulation nor does it mention that the four-week period will not apply in the vast majority of cases because there is no requirement to stay after the Regulation. The proposition is also interpreted as a political signal in Nav and becomes a main argument in the parliament against the first confession of the Social Security Court, which repeals Nav’s decision. Nav also starts here with the incorrect distinction between short-term and long-term temporary stays in their assessments. It also significantly delays the detection of the seriousness of this case. So we know that we've discussed another last issue that also makes the matter worse, and it's about the secrecy of some key documents in this case. Every stone was to be snuffed, said the councillor. Obviously, not all the stones were involved. During this case, new information has emerged, week by week, large and small, which has put the handling of this matter in a worse light, made the matter more serious. There's a lot we don't know yet, but some things are clearly already. It is clear that the alarm could have gone away, it is clear that the murder of the judiciary could have been avoided. In addition, we know that the Storting may have been misled, and we have seen secrecy and little dependable choices from the government in the cleanup. In such a serious matter where the consequences are so great and the victims are so hard hit, is actually part of restoring justice that political responsibility is also taken, that they too at the top bear consequences. That's why we suggested distrust of Annicken Hauglie, and in the vote the other red-green parties end up at it. Then we know that Anniken Hauglie left before we had finished dealing with this matter, but it cannot mean that this government is not to be held politically accountable. That is why, instead, we are promoting proposals for criticismary decisions. Then I record from the previous speakers that the bourgeois parties prefer to hold their hand over the government against that criticism rather than place that responsibility. It's a pity, because the victims had deserved a little more self-search, a confession of faults and will also from the government's handling and ability to take criticism. It is also part of restoring justice and trust in such a serious matter. I am discussing the solution proposed by SV in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e649	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e654	I and the Left took up the control and constitution committee at the very end of the handling of this matter, so I choose a slightly more superior approach in this debate. In the introduction, however, I would like to stress that it has been both safe and impressive to enter the committee and to take part in the proceedings. Thanks to the case spokesperson for a thorough work. Thanks to the rest of the committee for the real willingness to work together to do as good and thorough a job as possible. In the greatest collective system failure in Norway over time, there is little doubt that we should stand together across the party lines. The big business, which always has responsibility, has been directly involved as legislators, and almost all the parties here in the house have been in government up through the years the scandal has found its place. There is little doubt that we are many who, both today and until we hope, have drawn the final conclusions, have every reason to be humble and more concerned with preventing such a thing from happening again, rather than looking for scapegoats. I would also like to stress the seriousness of the matter: all three state powers, magnification, government and judicial systems have failed to take account of the fact that decisions taken under EEA law are governed by national law. As a result, individuals are unjustly sentenced to prison and, on a wrongful basis, have received repayment claims and payment notes. As you can see, it is easy to make Prime Minister Erna Solberg's words his own, that the handling of this matter will be an important test of whether the state of Norway can fix the problem in a good way. It is equally easy to add that there is no room for further errors in handling this matter at the same time. It must be done correctly. It is the least we owe to those who have happened to the scandal, and insofar as those who are to administer the legislation that we politicians adopt: they add in Nav. Councillor Hauglie did unquestionably right as she was so clear that all victims would receive the necessary legal assistance, and that everyone who has been subjected to the wrong proceedings and/or the murder of the judiciary would receive not only compensation, but also financial compensation. The scandal is a serious breach from the system side, from the community, against individuals who are in many cases sick and vulnerable. The level of seriousness is despondency, and unfortunately, so strong that it was necessary that the impending councillor Hauglie took time to get a thorough and defensive decision base before informing the Stortinget and the public. Yesterday, the first interim report came from the selection to find out what led to the Nav scandal. The preliminary conclusions state that the EU social security regulation does not allow the non-exposure of cash benefits because a user is resident in another EEA country. The selection also concludes that the social security regulation grants the right to receive cash benefits in case of illness in other EEA countries if the conditions for the benefit are fulfilled in Norway. In addition, they confirm that one needs to review the practice before 2012. For social liberals, it is absolutely fundamental that people who for a shorter or longer period depend on Nav's support should have the same freedom to benefit from the European Community as we can. As social security recipients, we should have the same right to cross borders as everyone else, as long as we can, and as required, to get back to work or be declared unfit. The EEA is far more than a trade agreement. The European project is about freedom from war, poverty and outreach and freedom to trade and live together. Today, every day of all European citizens, including us who live on the outer edge, is closely integrated. We travel and study. We have a common labour market. We have a community across borders. We tie bonds, friendships and love relationships. The need to take the few who speculate in so-called social security exports cannot thwart the fundamental ideal of freedom. And what's actually the principal difference for a social security recipient like that? lives here in the Oslo region, if the person takes the trip to a salmon eel in the north to cultivate his hobby, versus the solitary infant mother who wants to fulfill the promise of the young to take them to Legoland in Billund, Denmark, as long as they both meet the requirement Nav has made in terms of follow-up and participation? As others have been in the debate before me, it has been doubtful whether it actually has our legal errors in the Nav scandal. On behalf of the Left, I would like to stress that today, of course, we are dealing with the matter based on the information we have from the Department, which was underlined yesterday by the Investigation Committee, and that we all have a common interest in finally determining what is the actual legal basis. So I'm looking forward to the Storting getting the main report from the investigation committee and hopefully putting a point in a matter that should never be a matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e692	It is serious that such an error as we are discussing today has arisen, that wrong practices have been possible over such a long time, and that the prosecution authorities and the courts in the work they do have not uncovered the mispractice previously. This cannot be underlined enough. Many people have come into a demanding and unworthy situation, both economically and through criminal prosecution, because of this. We have to take that very seriously. Many governments have been working to reduce social security exports, particularly to Eastern Europe. Also the impending Stoltenberg government started work on once the Brochmann selection came with its findings in NOU 2011:7, Welfare and migration, the future of the Norwegian model. Social security exports are currently no unknown phenomenon in several EU countries either. It's coming, among other things. of the fact that the mobility of the people is much greater now than in the past. There are two elements that are important today, how it should be cleaned up, and how we prevent it from happening again. In order to understand and ensure that such a situation does not arise again, it is necessary to return to the period when the social security regulation was banned and incorporated into Norwegian law. The Regulation applies from 1 June 2012 and was incorporated into Norwegian law by Regulation (EC) No 22 June 2012. The corresponding Norwegian regulation was transmitted for information purposes by Nav on 5 July 2012. Prior to the decision of the EU/EEA Committee in 2011, the matter was assessed in relevant bodies at department and directorate level and dealt with in the Social Security Special Committee. The extent to which the error extends further than this is within the task of the review selection to find a response. There are several things that have emerged in the management of the control committee, including: the misassessment by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, prior to the implementation in 2012, and of which the lack of ministerial guidance, led the Stortinget to get incorrect information in 2012. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not provide a real opportunity for the assessment to other departments, because important information is missing. Furthermore, the error was not captured in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was responsible for sending the regulation to the European Selection Board. This resulted in a incorporation into Norwegian law that has been difficult to interpret and benefit from for lawyers, courts and lawmakers. There is also a lack of Nav’s EEA competence and internal communication, both across the organisation and upwards — and between Nav and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This was also confirmed in the hearing by the organisations of the addendum, which thought there was a need to look at the interaction and communication between the different devices and the levels of Nav. In the period leading up to the appointment of the Social Security Court in autumn 2018, the follow-up in Nav is characterised by unclear responsibilities, even though there were several internal signals that the practice could be incorrect. Following the awareness of the mispractice of the EU social security regulation by Prime Minister Erna Solberg, the Prime Minister has started a review of the practices of all departments in the implementation of EU law and how they keep themselves informed about practices in underlying agencies. This thinks the Christian People's Party is important. The fact that the courts and prosecution authorities have admitted errors has led to the Ministry of Justice and Defence initiating a discussion on the need for accommodation, with the aim of avoiding such errors happening again. This is important for the trust of the legal entity. It is also positive that good and targeted measures are being put in place quickly to take care of those who are in the frame, and that the impending government council Hauglie himself asked to come to the Stortinge to inform about the misinterpretation and practice of the EU social security regulation. At that time, several of the measures were already implemented. There are several questions still missing answers after the hearings were completed on 10 January. It was found in the hearing that Nav in advance of the implementation called for clarifications at least two times, but the hearings did not answer how the Ministry of Labour and Social followed up these questions. There are not enough answers to how the error could be done for this long in Nav. It is also unclear why the Social Security Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office or the courts were unable to address the issue before the Social Security Court starts to look at it in 2017. We in the Christian People's Party notice what has emerged in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. In addition to this, we await the report from the review committee to gain additional knowledge about all phases of the case and to gain a better understanding of what action is being taken, in order to ensure that no corresponding action is taken again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e713	Thousands have suffered a major legal scandal in Norway. Ordinary people who, due to illness or disability, had a claim and need from the community were instead met with the hard hand of the country: unjust prison sentences and large repayment claims. But the attitude of the committee that we are discussing and voting on today does not provide justice enough for those affected by this injustice. The parties on the right are cleaning up those who have the political responsibility for dealing with this legal scandal – they are actually going further than the then state councilman Anniken Hauglie himself has done, to relieve her of any responsibility for this scandal that has hit so many innocent Northmen so hard. Especially for the Progress Party, this setting is a valid magic puzzle. They would give the impression of acting on behalf of the people most when they left the government, but here we see how the Progress Party in practice focuses obediently on Erna Solberg and the sitting government. To the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, I would like to welcome you to the conclusion that the Stortinget could not have trusted Anniken Hauglie as the Council of State. At the end of November, the Stortinget dealt with Rødt's motion of censure against the Council of State Anniken Hauglie. That proposal was justified in four points: firstly, that the Council of State did not intervene when she became aware of the seriousness of the matter. The ministry was told that people could be sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. Then, however, weeks passed before the department met Nav, and months before the Riksadvokat was briefed – and it is the Riksadvokat that gets people out of prison. Secondly, we found that the Council of State itself had suffered a fatal error in the matter, not least when the department actively opposed getting a full picture and correcting the injustice that appeared in a letter sent from the department to Nav with the instruction not to go through old cases, simply re-establishing practice in the future. This was also known in November last year. Thirdly, we concluded that the insidiousness of the Council of State has had serious consequences. We knew that on 17 September, a man had been convicted of a wrong prison sentence, on 17 October, another settlement of a conviction based on improper justice began, and until the end of October, several people were imprisoned, including that of judges based on improper justice. As we said – and as it stands today: this is the definition of murder. Fourthly, we pointed out that information had been provided that was contrary to what the Council of State had said in its statement to the Stortinget. In my view, the reasons stand, factually, solid – and it was also confirmed and reinforced by the verification hearing. The November legal argument is also strongly confirmed by the justification that red-green parties are now giving for their conclusion in the vote, namely that if Anniken Hauglie had been the Council of State today, the Stortinge would not be able to trust her as Council of State. So it's strange that when Red promoted the motion of censure on this background, based on these four points that have not been disputed since, but only reinforced and confirmed, there was no way how bad that proposal was. It was compared to a so-called Moscow process, as if Anniken Hauglie was the great victim in this case and not the ones thrown into prison on a false basis – some even said that our proposal would strengthen Hauglie's position as a state council. Today we know that this did not vote. On the contrary, Hauglie left a few weeks after we promoted our proposal. Unfortunately, Red was standing alone to put Hauglie in charge in Stortinget, and Erna Solberg could unfortunately have the responsible government council sneak out the back way in the new year. We have always said that political signals have played an important role in the Nav scandal. The ideology often called the working line, which is fronted both by the government parties, by the Workers' Party and, to a large extent, also by the Centre Party, has led to both political restraints, suspicions and mistrust of the sick and destitute, and has, after all, also contributed to this scandal. This ideology is also questioning our new Minister of Labour, on the basis of repeated interviews and statements since he went on as Minister of Labour. In our view, we need a new majority on Stortinget who will also take the necessary settlement with this thinking – that we will take the necessary settlement with social security. Yesterday came the first interim report from the government's investigation committee. According to the sample, it is also necessary to look at practices before 2012. It's in line with what Red has meant all along. We have to get to the bottom of this injustice, we have to investigate the legal scandal in its full and entire width. In 2017, Stortinget tightened the Social Security Act on the right to take redundancy benefits to EEA countries. About this, the review committee writes the following: ‘... if the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the law in force prior to the amendment which entered into force on 1 January 2018 seems uncertain whether it was justified, completely independent of the requirements of EEA law on Norwegian law, to withdraw redundancy payments solely for the reason that the member was living abroad without prior authorisation. Much less was the authority to punish for this." This is alarming. This means that Nav's practice and sanctions against people on redundancy payments may have been much more stringent than permitted by Norwegian law. To date, the government has claimed that the said legislative change was not a narrowing, only a confirmation of current practice. Now the sample, put down by the government, says not only that this was obviously an intrusion, but also that current practice until then may have been illegal. If Nav's practice was not enshrined in law, it says something about how strongly this thinking stands in the leading political environments. Today, Red proposes that a Commission be set up where both Nav's various trade unions and Nav's users are represented, with the aim of recommending solutions to ensure that problems raised in the first line and internally at Nav's headquarters are actually captured, reaching through to management and being followed up there. We propose this because it is clear that a top-heavy hub, where neither employees, users nor trade unions are adequately heard, is also part of the cause of the Nav scandal. We know that Nav's employees tried to raise questions about mispractice of the rules at the Nav's internal forum in both 2014 and 2015, but it was not picked up by the management. More formal warnings were also received from staff members of the Nav Board of Appeal both in 2017 and 2018, again without hearing them. The NTL, which is the largest trade union in Nav, said the same thing at the hearing in January, and AVYO, the trade union, raised the issue with the Nav management in October 2017, also without reaching out. The Legal Association has said that when their members took up possible mispractice with the Nav management in 2017 and 2018, they were told that Nav did not have the capacity to investigate the case. We have also, like several others, received several letters on the problem that have been sent to the Nav management during this period. When we don't even hear warnings from Nav's own lawyers about refunds and reviews on the wrong basis, we can only imagine how difficult it is for a user to be heard in this system. Both trade unions and, in particular, users have been quite clear that Nav’s own systems both for lifting and for notifying about professional issues and user involvement have not worked. In the setting, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left also acknowledge in their comments that Nav's internal procedures have not captured the signals that could have averted the injustice, so there seems to be a common problem understanding between the parties on the Storting that something has to be done at this point. Therefore, we hope that these parties and the rest of the Storting can support Red proposals that are intended to address this and change the practice for the future. I'll bring it up to Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e755	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e760	The complexity and scope of this case is large and extends far back in time. But the thing that's clear is that people have gotten wrong refunds. People have been reported and convicted. Former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Anniken Hauglie has given the concerned and their families an unreserved excuse for this. The Prime Minister has complained on behalf of the government. Of course I do. The government has set up a review committee to investigate what has happened, how it could happen, and what we should do to prevent anything similar from happening again. We're in the process, and we're cleaning up. The Control and Constitutional Committee has done a thorough job. The government has assisted in providing information and answered the questions raised by the Committee, and the matter has also been addressed through a wide-ranging consultation. The government has taken the matter very seriously from the very beginning. The matter stands, and continues to stand, high on the agenda. A number of questions were raised after the verification hearing on the legal basis of the case. It's an illustration of the complexity of the case. The Government has consistently argued that the Employment and Welfare Act misinterpreted the Social Security Regulation as regards access to some social security benefits when staying in other EEA countries. This applies to sickness benefits, care allowances and redundancy benefits. It is an assessment that has been supported by most legal environments in Norway. We have set up an external independent review committee that has done a comprehensive and solid job and has now produced an interim report that we are going to go through carefully. The committee supports the legal assessment of the authorities in the autumn of 2019. It shows that it was right to pull the emergency brake. A unanimous sample states that the social security regulation does not allow the refusal of cash benefits solely because a user is resident in another EEA country. The conclusion of the committee is in line with that used by the authorities for the ongoing clean-up work. Nav cleanup will proceed. There are two points in the sample interim report that it is natural to mention separately beyond this. The first point is that the government asked the sample to assess whether there was a need to look at practices before 2012. The Committee considers this to be necessary. How we're going to do this, we're going to have to evaluate. I record that the sample does not conclude on which groups it will apply in that case. We're going to have to take a closer look at that. However, we believe that the number of cases covered, if any, is much lower before 2012 than after 2012. We know, among other things: that there were fewer repayment claims during that period. The second point is that the sample considers that it may be possible to require individuals to apply for travel to other EEA countries with redundancy payments, sickness benefits or care allowances, but they establish that the application requirement that was has been incorrectly practised and designed in the EEA cases. We have announced that we will consider how a possible application can be made in the future. Based on the legal assessments that existed last October, it was right to start the clean-up immediately. These assessments are also supported by the sub-investigation of the review committee. Nevertheless, it must be said that the sample does not determine the applicable law. That task lies with the courts. The Court of Justice shall examine individual cases. In light of, inter alia: further legal clarifications will also be appropriate for the opinions of the majority and minority in the sample. I have been informed that the district attorney has already decided that two appeals should be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. The Secretary-General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities will also consider addressing the Resumption Commission accordingly, as it may be appropriate to refer questions from the Resumption Commission to the EFTA Court in one or more of the cases referred to the Commission. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has asked questions on the matter and the Ministry continues the dialogue with them. We hope to get an assessment from ESA in a short time. I refer you to the former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Hauglies, in the Stortinget on 5 November last year, and what emerged during the hearing of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs on 9 and 10 January this year. In addition, I refer to the written answers to the questions raised by the Committee prior to the hearing. The committee has now presented its legal opinions in support of the government’s assessment. They will now review how the misinterpretation could have occurred and been continued for such a long time – both in social security administration and in criminal proceedings. The selection will look at the implementation of the regulation and why it took so long before we discovered that practice was wrong. I am now going to explain the status and further plans to clean up the matter. The government has said that several questions should have been raised earlier. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has the overall responsibility. Once a mistake has been made for so many years, it is obvious that the ministry cannot be satisfied. Nav should have intercepted the error earlier. It is a fact that no one caught up with this issue before the Social Security Court started to look at it in 2017. The attention of the interested parties is the most important. Nav is reviewing all cases back to 2012 where the department has unlawfully claimed a refund due to the misinterpretation. Nav aims to start all matters during March 2020. These matters have been the first priority since the cleaning started. The first estimate was that there were about 2 400 users who could have been affected by the error related to the refund. That number is now down-adjusted to the bottom of 2,000. As of March 3, 37 million were repaid. SEK to 700 people. In addition, 170 people have completed their cases, but have not been paid anything because they have not paid anything. Nav assumes that they will have completed all the recovery cases in the middle of April. Following this, the Directorate will begin to deal with cases where incorrect interpretation of the Code may have been essential for refusing or stopping the payment of redundancy payments and sickness benefits due to stays abroad. Cases relating to the refusal or measurement of benefits may also be brought before the Nav Board of Appeal in an ordinary manner and brought before the Social Security Court. The seat of employment and welfare deals with complaints and appeals on an ongoing basis. This process will continue beyond the summer of 2020. A separate arrangement is in place for the claims arising out of the EEA case. Compensation is granted only for substantiated financial losses. The handling of claims for compensation has been added to a unit that is organisationally disconnected from the Nav Board of Appeal. An independent name shall also be established before 1 April to deal with complaints concerning the refusal or measurement of compensation. The Government has also established a special legal aid measure whereby all those who will appeal to the Reform Decision of the Act of Labour and Welfare, or promote claims against the Act of Labour and Welfare, receive legal assistance irrespective of income. Up to now, 76 persons have been registered as convicted after notification from Nav check after 2012. These are part of the less than 2 000 cases with repayment claims mentioned earlier. The budget has completed 59 of these matters in the management track. Six of these matters have not been changed. The Chamber of Labour and Welfare has forwarded its decisions to the City Attorney General. It is the Commission for the resumption of criminal proceedings that assesses whether there is a basis for resumption of criminal proceedings. The government has strengthened Nav by 40 million. kr for 2020. It has given Nav a higher capacity than originally assumed for the year. The Social Security Court is also strengthened by 5 million in 2020. kr. Nav has carried out an internal audit, which is the basis for further follow-up in the establishment. Nav has given feedback to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on how to follow up the internal audit report. As the Prime Minister pointed out during the hearing, this case has revealed vulnerabilities in our EEA work. This applies both to the methods we use to implement EEA rules nationally, to the way we work in the implementation process, and to how we follow the practice of legislation. In parallel with the work of the Review Committee, an internal review of the EEA work of the departments has therefore been initiated to look at potential for improvement. As mentioned above, the Control and Constitutional Committee has done a thorough job. I notice that the majority of the committee believes that the government's handling of the matter is highly critical. The Committee also states that they will re-examine the matter and submit a new position once the review committee has delivered its report, based on the up-to-date knowledge they would then like to have on the practice of the legislation. The review committee is scheduled to produce its report in June. Here there will be more answers to what has happened, how it could happen and what can be done to prevent something similar from happening again. This matter is also going to concern us in the time that is coming. The former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs said in his statement that she could neither rule out nor could she rule out any further questions on the table. Nav is now also reviewing its practices related to other benefits in public security in the light of the EEA. I understand that many people need to ask questions and correct criticism in this matter. The majority of the committee has pointed out that the Riksadvokat should have been notified earlier. I have also taken the initiative to establish better communication between the Nav, the Riksadvokaten and the Social Security Court when relevant matters arise. My priorities in the future – in three brief points – are: In the short term, we must continue to clean up and ensure that those affected receive the help they need. This means, among other things: to pay money to those who are entitled to it, to provide free legal assistance and to establish a complaint subject. We also need to start quickly with the assessment of how we will deal with matters before 2012. In the medium term, the work of a legislative committee that the government will now bring down will look at social security legislation against EEA legislation. I have also asked Nav and the Swedish Attorney General to look at measures that can ensure better information flow between them. In the long term, we will follow up on learning points from the EEA case, including the final report from the Examination Committee, and strengthen EEA competence in administration. I would also like to take a closer look at the activity requirements for the current cash benefits and consider any application requirements within the EEA law. I will return to Stortinget when the final report of the Investigation Committee is available. We assume our responsibility to follow up all those who have received an unjust refund claim or stop and refuse benefits. The court system is looking at cases where the subject has been convicted. Everyone affected has their cases reviewed. Our welfare arrangements are to be properly practised. Let's keep cleaning up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e856	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e861	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough article. I think it is reassuring and good to hear how serious it is to take the clean-up to those who have been hit, because it is incredibly important. What I want to ask the Council of State a little bit about is what I took up in my article that e-mails have gone in circles, information has not come forward, it has not gone up in the system, and it has been enormously long since some have asked questions, until they have been answered. I have also seen a great deal of despair, especially among the employees of the Nav Board of Appeal, who are trying to get a clarification. So you also see that more people have asked the question, "Should we notify the department? It seems that there are no routines, so I wonder if the Council of State can say what steps he will take to clean up the culture that is. It's obviously not good when things don't get pulled up in the system, so if he can say a little bit about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e868	One of the things that the former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs stressed was that the department could have asked questions in the past, and that the flow of information, among other things. by raising problematic issues internally in Nav has not been good enough. As I mentioned in my introduction, this case also points out that the procedures – or the understanding between different parts of the public, for example. Nav and the Social Security Court or Nav and the Riksadvokat – nor is it good enough. So I can't now provide a type of 10-point list of what to do, but I think that diagnosis is very good. I believe that both the minority position of the control committee and the majority position confirm that the Storting also joins. It's one of the important jobs for us to clean up. This does not mean that you can guarantee that errors occur – it can happen, of course – but that means that you can learn from the mistakes that have been made, in order to prevent, as far as you can, that it happens again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e873	Thanks for the answer. A little bit in the extension of it: we also saw – I read so many e-mails – in this case that the system is very vulnerable in Nav, especially for example. in the case of search messages. Then things clapp together, things are not answered, and you cannot go further in the matter. The Council of State now said that it has strengthened Nav in particular to deal with clean-up. When we had a hearing, they were elected there too, and they were talking about a pretty busy working day in Nav. They thought that if you had more resources, you might be able to do better work at an earlier point in time, among other things. in this case, so I wonder if the council thinks something about the resource situation of Nav in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e878	The overall answer to that – it is also, unfortunately, the boring answer – is that every year when we make budgets, we also look at the resource situation in Nav. So I think, based on what I'm reading, that here -- and of course it's always a discussion about -- there are some areas of an organization that you have to look after have sufficient resources. But I don't read this primarily as a matter of resources. I read this first and foremost as mentioned: not good enough routines, maybe not good enough culture to raise things up and that it is too unclear how to deal with that kind of uncertainty, which potentially has dramatic consequences. That's what I'm going to deal with first and foremost right now. And so it's that to deal with this situation it's been absolutely necessary for Nav to get extra resources, so it won't go at the expense of the other important work they're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e883	The matter we have today is limited to Article 21. Nav himself said as late as 22 January that the case only concerns the three benefits of daily allowances, sickness benefits and redundancy benefits. Now I noticed that the Council of State said that Nav will take the initiative to also look at other performances. I think that is basically positive, because we have recently announced that beneficiaries in Norway have lost much of the approved old age pension and disability benefits earned abroad, and where qualified lawyers claim that such cuts are contrary to EEA law. What I'm asking is, what other benefits is it that Nav is now going to look up to EEA law?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e888	The short answer is that, after such a case, it is quite natural to look through all the public health benefits in the light of the EEA to see if there may be other EEA-related issues that arise. As the representative may know, we have both sent letters to the control committee and announced publicly that such a problem is a so-called aggregation problem, i.e. how to calculate social security abroad, and how to add up the years abroad, towards the Norwegian system. There's one such issue. Another issue concerns, for example: The newspaper rewritten. There is a much smaller problem issue, which probably does not concern more than 100-150 people, but in the light of a 2017 EU judgment, it is necessary to take a look and see if the Norwegian understanding of the legislation has any implications for us. I cannot provide a complete list now, simply because this is an ongoing work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e895	I thank you for your answer. We have to keep an eye on this. The second delimitation of the case concerns time, and the review committee will return to 1994. But what about the time ahead, when we had multilateral and bilateral social security agreements with many countries? Do we have control of that field? And what about countries outside the EEA with which we have social security agreements today? The reason I ask is that we get a lot of enquiries in the cooling water from this case. One of them applies to a person who is not allowed to take disability benefits with him to Turkey because the disability benefit has been granted under the exemption provisions following an occupational injury. Even I don't find anything about that kind of restriction in the social security agreement with Turkey, but it might be somewhere else. I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not waiting for an answer on the standing foot, but I would like to know if the relationship to social security agreements with other countries is also an area where the Council of State will look into.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e903	The review committee will not look into that type of issue. It is beyond their mandate. Nor is there any major effort planned to address non-EEA-related issues before 1994. And as the representative also says, of course, I cannot comment on individual matters, which I do not know either. But, of course, it is possible to raise that kind of problem by Stortinget if you wish, and ask for an answer from the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e908	I'll try as long as I get the floor from the president. One other thing that I noticed was that the Council of State was involved in, was to make clearer activity demands in the law. I was about to say – the counterpoint to previous activity requirements should also be that users actually get access to past and more meaningful activity. Because it is not the user's lack of willingness to carry out an assigned activity that has been the main problem in Nav so far. Rather, it has been the lack of individualised plans and meaningful activities that can actually lead to rapid clarification. After all, many people today go out of work redundancy money without having completed their work in health care or in Nav. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that Nav meets its obligations towards users for meaningful activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e915	There's a little question about what is meant by taking the initiative. Nav has a mission from the department, which is once again anchored in the Stortinget, and it's just getting people clear, getting people from passive benefits to jobs if there's a chance, or over to a fixed health benefit, for example. disability insurance, if necessary. There's a bigger discussion how to do it, and what buttons you have to twist, which we'll definitely get back to. The reason I have said a little bit about activity requirements and other things is that I am concerned that in this serious matter we should also manage what has been widely agreed in Norwegian policy, at least between government parties, the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and SV, namely the representative Bjørn Moxnes called for the working line, and which I still fully know and believe is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e922	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to focus on my article earlier today when I spoke about how Nav works internally in the organisation, in interaction with other actors, and not least for all users who need a helping hand, drag help and organisation. Then I read that the council had spoken to the newspaper about a month ago. I read and understood that he would not use the time to look at these issues related to the structures and scope of Nav. Is this still the Council of State's view of Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e929	Now I have to admit that I don't remember what I've said about not looking at the structure and scope. I guess what I've said is that I don't have any plans to notify a new Nav reform. Now there's water under the bridge, and Nav works in many ways today, although it can always get better. But to warn that, as at the time, you should sit either on the Stortinget or in the department and believe that all problems can be solved by moving boxes and drawing new organizational maps – I will not use that time towards the big shot. I'm going to use it to make the necessary changes, which also means changes in Nav, but the main structure is probably solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e934	The Council of State was also concerned with the earlier change of line that there is a clear mandate for users and those who need Nav need support from Nav – it is bad here from Stortinget. We can look back on the birth of Nav in 2001. The background was that users should not be throwing balls in the meeting with the public. Does the Council of State feel that care is well cared for?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e941	It is tempting now to go back and polemise on how the Nav reform was changed from what was the final proposal of the then Bondevik government and which had extensive changes in the Storting, which I do not think was wise, but I should rather answer the question. I think we have to be so honest to say that there are also problems today that people can become caste balls in the system, even though I believe that in many areas it has become better. An important reason for, for example: making the work clearance system and not having an activity requirement that is then directly controlled by what you get is to avoid that type of wasteball issue. But I think that for example. in the relationship between Nav and the municipalities, even though the municipalities are in and own part of the Nav, or at least they have a part of the Nav instruments, there may easily be problems with throwing ball. As politicians, we must be aware of this and fight against it all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e948	Report. St. 40 for 2016-2017, Exports of Norwegian welfare benefits were submitted on 16 June 2017. Inner. 108 S for 2017-2018 was issued on 6 February 2018 and the debate in the Chamber was on 1 March 2018. The wrong handling of the cases increased sharply in 2017 and 2018. The size was not informed about what we are now familiar with. I was the case rapporteur for the report setting. St. 40, and in it I unfortunately felt that the government parties and the Workers' Party did not join in a note that says: ‘... the provisions of the international agreements interfere with national law and even go ahead of it if there is a contradiction between the two sets of rules’.» Has this been a problem for the government's work, that one has not had a majority in the Storting for such an understanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e962	I do not believe that there is any lack of understanding in Stortinget, either in the parties that are in favour of or in the parties that are against the EEA Agreement, because the EEA rules are part of Norwegian law, and therefore they are also leading the way. Some of this case is also a discussion about that; to what extent are the EEA rules governing how we can set up our systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e967	The notation is accurate. Everything else that I wrote as the case rapporteur came to the agreement of the entire committee, except for this very sentence that if it is contradictory, the EEA Agreement goes ahead. My question then is: was it simply a mistake for the government parties not to join the fact, which was confirmed by the Council of State by two letters, from me as case rapporteur that was correct? This is absolutely essential to understand the cross-press that councillor Hauglie was standing in, that she did not get the support of the majority of the Stortinget for her understanding of the matter. Can the Council of State confirm that it was wrong for the members of the Government parties not to support the understanding of the facts of the case by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e972	There is a lot I can answer, and there is a lot I want to answer, and there is a lot I am competent to answer, but it is simply not possible for me to answer what were the opinions of parties and representatives relating to concrete comments in a case where I was neither in the committee nor was the Council of State nor knew the whole context. So I just have to answer again that I don't think there's any basic misunderstanding. We adopt many regulations, we implement EEA legislation all the time, and I do not think there is any lack of understanding of the basic principle that if there is a conflict between Norwegian law and EEA law, then there are EEA rules that go ahead. This issue we are discussing today concerns the understanding of what the EEA rules are. But it is simply not possible for me to give a good answer to the question put by the representative Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e978	Yesterday we received the first partial investigation from the sample to look at this matter, and we received many important – and serious – preliminary clarifications. At the same time, at the end of the report, there was a page with quite perceptive information. The committee writes in the report that, independently of EEA law, Norwegian authorities may not have had Norwegian legislation to punish anyone who has travelled abroad with redundancy payments without having applied for it until 1 January 2018. If that is true, it means that many of the judgments in this scandal would also not have been correct if we had not been bound by EEA law in that matter. In that case, it means that we have had an even more serious failure, with even more actors. So I would like to ask the Council of State for its assessment of this point from the Committee of Inquiry, whether it can vote that we have not been permitted in Norwegian law to require the repayment of the AAP, or to punish someone based on travel to EEA countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e985	Overall, everything in the report that came yesterday – and here there are several sub-themes, and there are also more questions that the sample travels, where it is natural that there are more legal clarifications – all of this will be followed up and will look at and read carefully. Then it's true, as the representative says, that there's a problem about whether it was a basis of trust before 2018. Many of the cases are now with the prosecution authority, which is independent, it is not the government that governs it, and therefore it is not natural for me now, so soon after we have received the sample report, to go into an assessment of the legal aspects of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e990	Then we're going to see a lot of clarification about it, and then we're going to see it. Another question: this government has had a very active policy in terms of control, tightening, cutting, performance and help in the Nav area. One example is that the four-week ceiling to receive redundancy payments while living abroad, proposed by the government in 2017, did not otherwise discuss the EEA Regulation. According to the Nav internal audit report, it was understood as a confirmation that their practice was correct. Then we see that it was a main argument against the claim of the Social Security Court, against what we now know was wrong practice, when Nav evaluated this verdict in August 2017 at his trade union meeting. Another example is how the Ministry highlighted the need for control, control measures, as practices were introduced in spring 2019. Can the Council of State see that the government's line of approach to social policy here may have helped to ensure that the social security scandal was not revealed earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e997	The seriousness of this case, i.e. in this case in which the control committee has put an end to it today, is no one contesting – the incorrect application of the rules that has led to people being ultimately imprisoned, convicted on the wrong basis. But then the representative of the Supreme Court raises a major political question. With the clear reservation that what we do should be within the law and the law, I believe it is important that we, for example. has a system to detect social security abuse. I think it's important that we have a system of good control. And why? Yes, among others. because these are funds that people have paid into tax money. Taking unfair advantage – and then I stress that this is a general point, not linked to the people involved in this case, because they are victims in this case – I believe it is important that the public has good systems to detect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1002	I want to repeat the two important examples here for the Council of State. Thus, a write-down was promoted from this government to this expansion in 2017, where it did not disclose its international obligations under the EEA Treaty Regulation, and that this was received in Nav as a confirmation and was used as a central argument in 2017, when the Social Security Court gave its first opinion which repealed Nav’s decision and then referred to the EEA Regulation. Here we have also distinguished between short-term and temporary stays at their quick start, which would also prove fatal for this case. Is it that the Council of State can see that the policy in this area has made the matter more serious?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1009	Both the Committee and the former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs have said from the very first moment that there have been misconceptions – it is quite obvious – up to 2012 and before 2012, which we have now also established. It also means that when I say in my statement that we obviously also need to build stronger EEA legal competences throughout the public system, it also means that in matters where you have to go through and assess the EEA legal aspects, we need to be clear and competent enough to discover it. There is no doubt – on the part of the government, at least – that there has been an incorrect application of the rules, and that it has also been able to reflect in documents that have come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1016	The council said that no one caught up with the issue before the Social Security Court started looking at this in 2017. This is probably a proven error, for this was repeated on the Nav's internal forum and by the trade unions in the period 2014 to 2018, and in the form of letters from users to the Nav management. This is the background to Red's proposal that Nav's various trade unions, and users, should be involved in work to find solutions to ensure that problems caught in the first line also come up to management and are followed up. What does the Council of State think of such a type of commission – or rather call it a selection, group or anything – that can be composed of both users, trade unions and management, just to bring about changes that can ensure that we do not get that kind of problems in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1023	I intend to draw a short post afterwards to say a little about the suggestions that are there. It's not certain that it's a bad idea, to start that way, because I think the starting point is very good, namely – as I have also said – that you need a better culture, better systems, better practices to raise difficult issues in Nav. It's quite obvious. I'm probably a little skeptical about the term "Commission" and uncertain about what's being put into it. I think a natural first step for me as the Council of State – and perhaps also for the Stortinget – rather than making a very detailed order on what Nav is going to do will be to have a meeting with the trade unions in Nav. That is what I intend to do, including: to hear from them what they think are important, correct and sensible proposals. So, of course, Stortinget will decide on this proposal, but it will make me think that that proposal may be too detailed and will start at the wrong end, for the start must be to meet the trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1032	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1037	Some of the things that made the most impression that the two whole days of the Committee on Control and Constitution had been hearing in January was to listen to former national lawyer Tor-Aksel Busch. As a previous charge, he said that there was strong reason to cause his office to incur wrong convictions by bringing cases before the courts, and he concluded that the cause was unresponsive. He was very clear that the prosecution images would have liked to have been briefed earlier on the doubt which spread in the Nav system that the legal understanding of their messages could be correct. He pointed out that there were several points of intersection where there should have been useful information to the State Attorney's Office, and that if they had been briefed in the summer of 2017, when there were decisions that raised questions as to whether this could be right, they would have gone into it badly. There shall be 75 erroneous judgments. Of these 75, the sonal prison sentence is in whole or in part in 44 cases. In 8 cases, there is community punishment, and in 19 cases, the sentence is conditional. In 4 cases, the unconditional punishment has not begun. In 2018 and 2019, 33 judgments were passed. A judgment that has been given on the wrong basis undermines the principle and the basis of our state of law. When 33 judgments have been given on the wrong basis, I cannot understand it other than that the hearing within the Committee and the handling of the case have clearly revealed that the government's handling of cases concerning the practice of Article 21 of the EU Social Security Regulation is highly critical. And that's what the majority in the committee has concluded in the setting of the Stortinget. The inexhaustible communication and time-use by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs when it comes to alerting other relevant actors, and in particular the National Attorney General, may have meant that 33 citizens in the country have been not only misjudged but also unnecessarily convicted. We have also been given the strong descriptions of the suffering these legal processes have caused for those who have been involved, both before and during legal proceedings, but also of the reduced quality of life it has involved for several of those who have been involved. Another hearing board that made a strong impression on me, was the Law Association, by Secretary-General Merete Smith. It points out that often the weakest groups in society have the biggest problems with getting the dishes they need, and that they often need legal help. She pointed out that if there was a business leader who had been accused of the same relationship and had been able to go to a law firm and said ‘job as much as needed, but get me out of this’, she felt pretty sure that someone after a time had said, ‘Hello, here are some EEA rules that we can use’. It had been drawn up in court, and it would have been discovered. And if it hadn't been discovered in the first round, it might have ended up in the Supreme Court. And on direct questions from the case-speaker whether she believed the case had been discovered whether this had been a resource-powerful person with large legal resources, the answer from Merete Smith was an equally direct and cash yes. It was also found that many of the judges said they had come as confessional judges, and that they thus accused them initially believed that they had no chance of attaining clearance. The threshold for free legal aid also appears to be so high that there are few defendants who can benefit from it, and if one is granted free legal aid, but is granted only up to six hours, and in a case that is very complex – yes, then a long way is to be judged before the judgment is given. Through this case, it has been frightening to see how our good Norwegian state of justice could end up punishing people who have done nothing wrong. And it has been particularly thoughtful to discover that several of those who have been sentenced to punishment could have avoided being framed if the powers of government had been more coordinated, and if they had warned before. For this reason, I believe that the government's handling of the practice of Article 21 of the EU Social Security Regulation is highly critical, and I believe that it will be right, not least to those who have been affected, that we in the Grand Duchy too, in the form of a decision, will join in this criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1052	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for very constructive cooperation in a very difficult matter. As others have said from this pulpit today, this is a sad and serious matter that affects a lot of people. It was a shock for all of us when the Nav scandal became known in October 2019, and as former government councilman Anniken Hauglie said in his statement in Stortinget on 5 November 2019, the wrong interpretation and practice of the right to take away sick pay, redundancy benefits and care allowances for stays in other EEA countries has lasted for many years. It was adopted in the EU in 2004 and implemented there in 2010. The corresponding Norwegian regulation was laid down by Royal Resolution of 22 June 2012 and transmitted on 5 July 2012. The regulation was only sent for information. No leads were given, and in the relevant EEA note to the government. ‘The new Regulation could be incorporated into Norwegian law by regulation on the same basis and would not result in any other change to Norwegian law.’ In the hearing, Nav leader Sigrun Vågeng said: ‘In the light of the post-war situation, it is easy to see that Nav has misinterpreted the relationship between the Swedish Social Security Act and the Norwegian citizens’ social security regulation. Unfortunately, we were many who did not see it along the way. We have reported, the prosecution has sued, lawyers have sued, the courts have convicted, prison sentences have been curtailed, and claims for repayment to the State have been made – this is because of this large collective misinterpretation.’ This is the scandal. All responsible bodies — the Ministry, the Directorate, the Social Security Court, the courts, lawyers and lawyers — have held that the assessment of the EEA social security regulation in its implementation and practice was correct. In retrospect, it has been found that this is wrong. And, as was said in the submission of the interim report from the review committee yesterday, the regulation alone had too narrow a look and did not see the regulation in the big picture, in the light of the EEA agreement. To put it another way: there was no focus on the rules on free movement in the EEA territory. What is bad is that so many people have been unduly convicted and have had to face a punishment that they would not have received if the law had been in line with EU legislation. Nevertheless, those who have been punished were punished after the law that was in force and that we thought was right. Several have thus violated the law in force, knowingly and willfully, as they provided incorrect information in connection with travel abroad. However, most people have been dealing with the legislation that Nav has practiced, which lasted until October last year, and have applied for permission to go abroad if they had benefits as a sick person or went on redundancy payments. And that's the way it is that those who struggle with health, or who need inspiration and motivation in their transition to work, and who have to enter another job, can benefit from travelling away and perhaps getting environmental change and recovering both better health and working capacity. In most cases, those who applied to Nav were allowed to take the benefits out of the country. I think it's important to include this in the debate, too, when there's so much talk about the innocent victims. This is also part of the picture. That's the previous Council of State statement in the Storting we're dealing with, and I must say I'm amazed at the massive criticism the opposition has come into the wake of the presentation. Former state councillor Hauglie informed Stortinget about the timeline in the Nav scandal – from the first signals came that Norway might be practicing the code incorrectly. She was clear that she thought this matter was very serious, that it weakened the confidence of the public authorities and the judiciary, and that it was particularly serious that it took so many years before the alarm went off. Former Council of State apologized to the people and their families who had suffered from misinterpretation, and promised that the state would settle as soon as possible. This work is now in full swing, and it's great to see how much Nav is now putting on it. They're working on a bomb to make this work for them. Hauglie was reduced to an externally independent review committee that would ensure that all the facts came on the table, find the reason why the error could occur without it being revealed, and provide the basis for learning the necessary lessons in order to avoid such errors happening again in the future. The first interim report came yesterday. It's always easy to be a back clock. One of the criticisms of the Ministry’s handling of the Nav scandal is that it took too long before the emergency brake was put into service. One of the appeal points is that the Riksadvokat should have been notified in the past. With what we know today, it's not unreasonable. But pointing back to 2017 is going to be wrong. The Nav Director thought that the autumn of 2018 could have been a possible time. Former State Council Hauglie has pointed out that there would be a clear improvement point if the Riksadvokat had been briefed at the same time as the police districts were informed. How early it would have been possible to go out and at the same time be safe on the decision, there would be rapid speculation with the later glasses on. It's hard to say when the right time should be. It's going to be a mistake to get information out too early. Law enforcement is not something you just think about. Quality assurance is necessary, and it takes time. The legal assessments in this case are, and have been, difficult. It should also be stated that the prosecution authorities have a separate responsibility in the matter. It is to be expected that the Riksadvokat and the prosecution authorities will also follow sources of legal development on their own, and not passively waiting to be informed. That they make their own assessments is particularly important in matters between the people and the state. It is essential for trust in the State of law. Recently, several prominent legal experts have also thought much and have had conflicting legal explanations. It is true that the head of the investigation commission said at yesterday's press conference: Juss is the postwar domain. It is also good to read that, on several occasions, the practice of the regulation has been called into question internally in Nav. But what is not good is that there have been so unclear responsibilities and internal dialogue in Nav that the alerts have not received the necessary attention to stop this earlier. The right priority was first given in Nav when the Social Security Court informed Nav that they were considering bringing a case before the EFTA Court in October 2018. It is positive that Nav has carried out a thorough internal analysis to analyse what went wrong in Nav, and that competence and structure are now being introduced that will make Nav better rusted in the future. Former state councillor Hauglie said at the end of her statement that she could not rule out that there would be more facts and new questions on the table, among others. as a result of the review. She repeated the seriousness for everyone who was hit, and was clear that all of it had been wronged against, would be contacted by Nav and get back what they had the right to receive. I want to focus on the good cleanup work. We in the Chamber have disagreed on several aspects relating to the handling of this matter, but what we have been in agreement on is that upliftment and justice for those who have been convicted on the wrong basis are first priority. So we agree on the most important thing. The government has strengthened the Nav, the Social Security Court and the Riksadvokat, so that they have sufficient capacity to review the cases again, and we have established compensation mechanisms and legal remedies for those concerned, to mention some of the measures. Most of those who have been heard in this process have taken a partial responsibility, and I think that is good. But by being too concerned that the blame should be placed on a few heads, and that these should roll, one tells off the possibility of learning, which comes by acknowledging that the responsibility is shared by many who have failed, and that one is among those who might be able to do things differently. It is not liability powdering, it is the starting point for improvement, and it will become important in the future in several departments and their underlying offices, in the prosecution authorities, in the courts and in the Grand Duchy as a legislative assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1099	This attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee applies, first, to the seriousness of the Nav legal scandal and, second, to whether the Council of State should take responsibility in the matter and resign. In the hearing of the Control Committee on 9 January 2020, the Committee took part, inter alia, in: former national lawyer Tor-Aksel Busch and head of the Social Security Court, Trine Fernsee. The two made very serious statements showing that government and political leadership in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs could and should have intervened and changed practices much earlier. During the examination of the case by the Control Committee, it has been highlighted that there have been a number of meetings and meeting venues between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs’ political management and Nav. So there was no possibility of getting involved in the case or asking so that you could get involved in the case – get involved in the case in order to understand the whole of the case and take responsibility for the management. The main explanation of the Nav legal scandal is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, lack of involvement, lack of position and lack of political leadership in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to clean up. The central party is aware that former government council Hauglie has been subjected to a very strong political cross-pressure on this issue, from the bulk of the population, the EEA members of the government parties and the Workers' Party. This was found at the latest in Innst. 108 S for 2017-2018, to Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The announcement came on 16 June 2017, the setting was issued on 6 February 2018, and the debate in the storeroom was 1 March 2018. This time period is very central to the Nav court scandal, with increasing number of wrong decisions, and the Stortinget was not informed about this when reporting. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In the Log Out option. St. 40 for 2016–2017, for which I was the case rapporteur, it was only the Senterpartiet and SV who joined the Storingsmessagea’s pointed out the fact that «the provisions of the international agreements shall intervene in national law and shall prevail if there is a conflict between the two sets of rules.» What I now quoted was the only disagreement in the matter. All the other things that I, as the rapporteur, presented, were endorsed by the entire committee, but not by what I was now referring to. Did it happen that there was no connection to it? Of course not. It also shows the party political responsibility for the Nav court scandal from the majority of Storting. The Council of State, Røe Isaken, explained what I am now saying, in the reply earlier, and said that it does not show any lack of understanding from the majority of the Stortinge on what is the reality of the matter. It must be possible to acknowledge that it has been made a mistake, if it is to be believed, as the Council of State said in the reply. This fact shows the cross-expression and is for the Center Party a mitigating circumstance for former councillor Hauglie, but it is no more than mitigating. As the leader, Hauglie was responsible for the fact that the scandal did not develop in such a way that a number of people were mistreated by the Norwegian state. Hauglie is no longer the Council of States. She's gone off with a justification from both Prime Minister Erna Solberg and say that it didn't – I don't stress – have its cause in the Nav court scandal. In my opinion, this is very serious. People don't believe that reason. This kind of behaviour greatly weakens confidence between Norwegian citizens and the state. Not to tell you honestly why a person goes off after taking responsibility is a problem. And it's also evolved so that you can take responsibility by being seated to clean up. This has become a term for how the management of democratically governed Norway now speaks, when one is to take responsibility for his mistakes. It sends out the wrong message to all those trained to take responsibility for errors committed by the organisation or by the manager of the sea. In very serious circumstances, the leader must step back and be replaced by new people who can regain confidence between citizens and countries. This has to happen openly and honestly. In private businesses, we see daily that the culture of taking responsibility for mistakes is being practised and working well, by taking the lead and replacing it with a new leader to restore confidence. In public activities we have a shining example of exemplary action in this area, and this is Colonel Arne Pran, who took responsibility and on his own initiative left after the Vassdalen accident in Troms on March 5, 1986, when a snowmobile took a troop of engineer soldiers, and 16 soldiers died. We learned a lot from this because it provided the basis for a new form of management in Defense, namely, operations-based management. This lesson was continued and updated by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in the majority of the comments of the Monitoring Committee on the treatment of the tragic terrorist act on 22 July. This was described in the chapter on organisation, culture and management, and the main point was and is the greater responsibility and authority of the first line, the public servants who meet and shall assist the inhabitants. This shall be done in the pact with the will of management. For the Central Party, the Nav legal scandal will be followed up with a review of Nav's organisation and the legislation needed to ensure that obligations – and I stress obligations – and justice in terms of our social security benefits can be practised in such a way that the Norwegian welfare state safety net for people like, among others. lack of full-time employment, receive normal income, be strengthened, do not weaken. The obligation needs to be clarified and practised so that the level of welfare benefits is not weakened because people’s support for the level of well-being benefits is unclear. In this case, the position of the Control Committee has been seriously highlighted. At the same time, the responsibility of the responsible State Council is expounded by both the Prime Minister and the Government Parties as well as the Progress Party of the Control Committee. Yes, the Advance Party's Soviet Horne performed to say that the matter is the greatest scandal in recent times while attacking, among other things. The central party, by saying that the matter is too serious for political games, because we say that the government's treatment is highly critical. Only that opinion shows the need for the proposal for a decision in the case. That is why the Central Party is so strongly behind the proposal for Decision I in the vote, which says: ‘The government’s handling of cases concerning the practice of EU social security Regulation 883/2004 Article 21 is highly critical.’ There is a precise description of the seriousness of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1129	The President will only make the Storting aware that there is reason to assume that the debate on case No. 2 will continue beyond the announced time for voting, at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox So it is that if the debate is on case No. 2 is going to continue outside at 2:00 p.m. 14, this case will be answered on Tuesday, March 10, at 10 a.m. 15th However, voting will be called to consider case No. 3, Referral cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1134	The Nav system is available for people who need community help. Our welfare systems are essentially good, and it is important that schemes are not abused. But the fact that people are taken and punished for the abuse of regimes that in retrospect turn out not to be abuse is serious. The fact that people are put in prison, yes, some even in high-risk prison, long after the first employees asked questions about whether it was right, and that the Social Security Court sent cases back, is unforgivable. The Nav staff who are to help provide help to people who need it have to deal with a complex – not only complicated, but also unclear – regulatory framework. This means that we're in the middle of what's going to be the biggest legal and administrative scandal in Norway. In the period after 28 October, people with heavy legal competence have asked questions about whether the legal interpretation that is the basis of the case today is correct. It creates uncertainty for the people involved. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that we clarify what is legally correct. Today we have heard the council say that the settrick lawyer will now contribute to a case or two in Borgarting Lawyers' Rights being used to settle the matter. That's good. But the question is, why has nothing been done to clarify this more clearly earlier in the legal system? Yesterday the Committee of Inquiry came, but it does not give the final answers, because it is only the courts that can decide. Reading through the configuration of the Control and Constitutional Committee, it is almost incredible that it has not been clarified a long time ago. The Social Security Court has held that it has been unclear. The Board of Appeal considers that to be unclear. Employees have mentioned that it is unclear. Proposals for cases before the EU/EFTA Court of Justice are ignored. In Stortingen we have to base the government's understanding of the matter. They have access to legal competence and to the EU system. It is almost five months since the case became known. I therefore expect that time has been spent clarifying whether the law is correct, not just waiting for the expert committee, and that it is not just retired Supreme Court judges who have been in contact with the EU on understanding. I expect that time has been spent to check how this is done in other countries covered by the directive that provides the basis for the case. The case affects individuals, and they deserve all the time to clarify the legal basis. The government was very clear that those who had been mistreated would get quick help. That's good. But no later than a few days ago, we could read that the tax rate says it can take up to one year before you have cleaned up for those who have had to repay a gross amount, but who have only received the net amount into the account. So you have to be a bank for the tax rate for a year, because the difference between the net and the gross amount is paid in advance. A government that started its work on the implementation mantra must spend one and a half years repaying tax credits to the victims of the Nav scandal. Yes, then it sounds as if the enforcement power has been lost. The Nav case has put a searchlight on an establishment that needs new ideas and implementing power. In the wake of the Nav scandal, we've met a lot of people who tell stories that they're not being heard, that it's hard to get in touch with those who work in the Nav system, that they've got advice that's not right in the future. We often hear about papers that have been submitted, but that have gone away. Some can prove that this is the fourth time you deliver the same papers to Nav. We can't have it like that. We can't have a system that's more important than individuals. Then we have to do something with the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1153	Much has already been said in this matter, and it is initially a matter of control, but it also affects the remit of the Labour and Social Committee to the greatest extent. As a member of that committee, it is therefore natural for me to comment most on issues that have been dealt with in the past by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. The Nav reform was in its time described as the largest administrative reform in Norwegian history. Three wards became one, people would no longer experience themselves as throwing balls between the systems, but have one door to deal with, where the individual user would get good guidance, opportunities and rights, quick and individual clearance to work or social security. But it was not just a management reform. At the same time, efforts were made to simplify the legislation, to prevent unnecessary time-use in a small targeted procedure on which each individual was subject. A combination of three previous benefits to one, redundancy pay, was the first step on the road. We all know that it wasn't exactly the way the Storting assumed it. Instead of a first line with the power to take interim benefit decisions, special units were set up that made decisions without even meeting users — not rarely across what was set up by the local Nav office. There was one door in, but on the back people experienced new doors that were difficult to deal with. Instead of simplified legislation, the opposite was achieved in many ways – rules and decisions that were difficult to deal with. The matter we are dealing with today shows that it is not just the users who have had problems understanding which rules apply. When both accumulation, government, welfare management, taxation, social security and courts have not been able to keep an overview, how can one expect individual user to know their rights and – as here – their obligations? An important feature and quality of the Norwegian society is a high level of trust between the population and the authorities. It has not come about by itself, but has been built stone by stone by political decisions in the development of the rule of law and the Norwegian welfare community for over 100 years. That trust is our responsibility as elected representatives to take care of. It's just that rug that makes the Nav scandal so serious. As others have pointed out, the Secretary-General of the Association put his tail on the donkey at the hearing of the Committee of Inquiry in January when she pointed out that the Nav scandal shows that legal certainty is not an equally well-distributed issue in Norway, but that legal certainty can actually be about having enough money to acquire the necessary legal competence, especially in cases such as this, where all the bodies have failed, from the first line through the Boards of Appeal, the Court of Appeal, the judiciary and the tax administration, which were the subject of previous speeches. It is now absolutely necessary that we manage to re-enter the trust of Nav. We don't do that on today's case alone, but it's hopefully the beginning. It is first about admitting, then trading. It's about what the Nav reform was supposed to be: a shift to increased user focus. The fact that the work is in progress is reassuring, but all the stones have not yet been turned around. It shows the preliminary report of the government's own review committee. Where we had recently publicly recognised lawyers who claimed that the scandal was not an unjust refund claim and unjust convictions, but that the scandal was actually that there were no scandals, the investigation committee has now said the opposite. They have also said that it is necessary to go further back in time, to 1994. Once you've started that way, is that enough? Are we sure that this applies only to EU law and not also to bilateral social security agreements before the EEA or bilateral social security agreements outside the EEA, of which we still have many? As I mentioned in the exchange of lines with the Council of State instead, the reason I am asking is that we are getting specific enquiries, which the representative Aasrud was also talking about – enquiries I am unable to respond to. In concrete terms: a ban on bringing with us a disability benefit that has been granted under the exemption provisions after a professional injury, to Turkey, with which we have a current social security agreement, which says that you can bring with you disability benefits. I can't find where that home is. Nav has said so far that only the three benefits are paid daily, sick pay and redundancy. On the contrary, lawyers who consider themselves competent have made a public statement that persons who are staying in Norway and who are receiving an old age pension or disability benefit have been deprived of much of the benefit, more specifically for the part of the rights earned abroad, but that it has not been done on a legitimate basis. That's why it's positive, what the Council of State said in its statement, that Nav will now look at other benefits as well. It is possible that other benefits are irrelevant, that the scandal only applies to Article 21, and that 1994 is the right time-limit, but questions are asked, partly by competent professionals. Therefore, those questions also deserve a safe regulatory response. That's what it's all about when it comes to repatriating trust. The Committee of Inquiry has also raised another new issue: the ban on taking redundancy payments to another EEA country was not only anchored in EEA law, but also in Norwegian law. The Norwegian home came first with the tightening of redundancy payments from 1 January 2018. So there we have another problem about how the regulation actually is to be understood. On 17 November 2016, Stortinget reported. St. 33 for 2015–2016 Nav in a new time – for work and activity. The Solberg government initially says: ‘Work and welfare management is a central provider of labour and welfare policies by managing welfare services, providing welfare services and helping those in need of assistance in order to participate in the labour market.’ The then State Council Hauglie opened his speech on this matter with the following: ‘The government’s objective is to increase employment and reduce social security.’ It is a common objective for both authorities and users. She continued: ‘The proper functioning of labour and welfare management is important if we are to achieve that objective.’ So the promise of the then state council Hauglie came forward three main tracks: a hub that knows people's needs, which is closer to and earlier on more user-friendly services greater authority and freedom of action for the Nav offices Just these things are still to be seen. The Nav scandal probably hasn't made that much easier. In the wake of the Nav message, Stortinget was presented with proposals for tightening work clearance money. With a spell of magic, the intrusions would do what Nav has not done for 20 years: get the work clearance system to work properly. From the point of view of the position, it was tried to explain the need for tightening up the number of people involved in the scheme who did not really satisfy the requirements for redundancy and redundancy. Fortunately, that was not the case at that time. Nevertheless, it has continued to live on. New work clearance money rules came into force on 1 January 2018, but just after we had dealt with the Nav message in 2016, where the restrictions were only announced, things began to happen. Users were informed by their case handler that they could hardly expect the necessary extension if they had not been completed for neither social security nor work when the first period of redundancy was over. And Nav and the former state council have on direct questions from the Storting denied that it happened, despite internal warnings in Nav about the opposite, warnings that Nav otherwise claims not to know. But we know about them. In the professional journal Work and well-being No. 3 in 2019, Nav itself shows that there was actually an internal tightening in Nav before the new rules came into force. So here we're also talking about jurisdictions in the national legislation. Just one thing we see as an explanation of the social security scandal: Nav's interpretations of political signals have made one a little too eager in the ministry. Who has shown such zeal — Nav itself or former Council of State — is hard to read from the presentation and hearings in the Stortinget, but it testifies, however, to a culture that is at least far away from what could be expected in the light of the 2016 Nav report. Opinions of the representatives of the hearings point in the same direction. Against this rear carpet there is a striking difference in the comments from the position and opposition which must appear strange to those outside and accompanying, especially to those directly affected, but also to others. That majority of the committee, i.e. the minority here in the Grand Duchy, points out the seriousness of the fact that it took so long before the established practice ceased, so that more people were even found innocent, says the government parties, including the Support Party, that the former Council of State acted as quickly as possible. Could the scandal have been discovered before? Perhaps – if not the Solberg government, as some of the first thing it did, had drawn the Stoltenberg government’s news of growth on more people in work, where a review of the relationship with EEA law was announced in the Brochmann Committee. We'll probably never get the answer to that question. But we've also had Report. St. 40 for 2016-2017, on social security exports, which was dealt with at Stortinget on 1 March 2018, after the Social Security Court had begun to issue notices of misinterpretation of Article 21. It was not known to Stortinget, but the opposition nevertheless criticised a lack of clarification of the relationship with EEA law. We've had Prop. 74 L for 2016-2017, on the tightening of redundancy payments, where the basis for refusing to include redundancy payments was entered into the Norwegian law for the first time from 2018. In the middle of the Nav scandal, the government and the majority of the population chose to introduce new restrictions on the export of social security benefits through Prop. 129 L for 2018–2019 Changes in the Swedish Social Security Act, which was dealt with in Stortinget as late as November 26, 2019. The government proposed, and the majority of the population decided, that there should be a requirement to reside and stay in Norway for children and spouses for whom a dependant allowance is received as well as a requirement to reside in Norway for beneficiaries of a dependant allowance for retirement and disability benefit. The decisions therefore concern benefits such as day-care allowances, redundancy benefits, disability benefits, old-age pensions as defined in Chapter 19, disability benefits, disability benefits, and measures and disability benefits. And the design of those legal provisions is exactly the same as the provisions on day-to-day pay, sickness benefits and redundancy benefits that the previous Council of State itself, in its presentation to the Grand Council only three weeks earlier, had been characterised as difficult to understand, not only for users, but in fact also for those who were supposed to practise the law, and where she recognised that there may be a need to change the wording of the Law on Social Security, so that it complies with EEA law. Nevertheless, there were new, equally unclear rules before such legal work was started or completed – new rules that were so unclear that the then State Council itself had problems answering concrete questions in the Stortinget when dealing with that matter on 26 November 2019. In addition, we have had registration cards that are so vaguely designed that users have misunderstood the wording, but are still convicted of fraud. In the wake of the Nav scandal, a job should also be done with regard to the design of the information that users receive. It must be understandable. It has to be possible to get into the system even for people who don't control it digitally. A final point on the importance of trust: we have recently looked up issues of non-compliance with other benefits where EEA legislation has not been the subject. I am thinking in particular of young children's parents who have lost the right to paid leave. They may even have their own fault — forgotten to apply within the prescribed time limit — or, as many claim, they may have simply misunderstood. I've read through those paragraphs of the law, and they're difficult and unwieldy. And what matters with the really important deadline is right at the end of the paragraph, after it says that you can take that leave over a three-year period. So there's also a clear need to do something about our whole code and go through it, given the possibility that people can understand what it says. I have asked questions to another state council, Ropstad, and I do not think I got a good answer to what he is thinking of doing with it. It is, as I said, important to re-establish trust in Nav, both in relation to the relationship with EEA law, but also in relation to issues relating to the correctness of decisions in other cases. As a consequence of the Nav case and the legal scandal, there will naturally be questions about some other benefits that are not part of the current case, but which one should take the initiative to review. It's also about repatriating the trust in Nav, and it's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1231	The case rapporteur and several speakers have been well aware of the dramatic nature of this matter for the people who have actually been affected by it: the 48 who have been in prison and should not have been there, someone has come to prison after it should have been clear that they should not have been there, and the more than 2,000 who have received a claim for a refund or have not been paid benefits that they should have had. It's particularly bad to think about it, because here everyone agrees that the administration has failed. But what's so scary is that the prosecution is based on the same administration's understanding of the law, and not least that the courts are making the same mistake. It's a serious cross of thought for us, because we're talking about those who may not have the most resources in this country – who are right, but who don't get right in the legal system either. In particular, it gets bad, because the clear answer – which many people have had, and which Merete Smith gave on direct questions in the hearing – is that had a better advice and could have bought more lawyer hours, perhaps even better lawyers, it would probably have been discovered before. It should seriously worry us about the same dilemmas, at least the legal side of the case, not necessarily that people get wrong judgment every time, but that polling etc. are influenced by the resources available to you in several areas of society. Then there was a partial investigation yesterday from the investigation committee. Many of the Biggest parties – not the majority, but a significant proportion of the minority – believed that the Review Committee should have been set up by the Stortinget. I think that the developments we have had in this case have been a good evidence of this, because we are in a matter where the law and the judiciary, in addition to the two political powers, have proved to be ineffective. It should have been started by the Storting. However, with regard to the matter we are dealing with today, there was a clarification yesterday that we are going to use the treatment as a basis for the error. I want to underline that – and that the head of the sample was very clear about what the Council of State was also very clear on: that sample is not the legal competence in Norway, that is the legal apparatus that is. That is why I am pleased with what the Council of State says, that there are now cases in which we can end the legal part of the debate, which has been conducted in public with well-qualified participants on both sides, with the authority it gives to get a final judgment – possibly in the Supreme Court, possibly in dialogue with ESA. Then I just want to remind you that we have an opportunity to clean it up if we use the Basic Law section 83, where the Stortinget can actually ask for a legal clarification from the Supreme Court. That's an opportunity we have to use, if necessary, if that is needed and the forthcoming, hopefully, legal clarifications would not come forward. But I hope that what the Council of State said will finally settle the legal issues raised. It has been said very well in this debate. First of all, I would like to address something that we may not have been so much involved in, but which was the subject of the Stortingen not long ago, namely the information for the Stortingen at the Control Committee as a basis for dealing with the matter. When the former Council of State made its statement, she said from the pulpit of the Grand Duchy: ‘Everything shall appear in the light. All stones shall be snuffed. Harassment shall be rectified.’;» That was the word of the former Council of State. But that's not how we have experienced the cooperation with the government regarding the job that the control committee was supposed to do. On the contrary, we had a case to deal with here in Stortinget not long ago, Document 8:52 S for 2019-2020, where we saw the need to ask the Stortinget to decide that we should have an important document on the subject, namely a document dealing with meetings between the Council of State and the Nav Director on 25 October 2019. So it was very central to what has been a central part of our question: how has communication between the ministry and Nav been? There the government has refused to give us that information despite the fact that it was a unanimous committee that asked for it. It was not the way both the Prime Minister and the Council of State have given the impression – the Council of State in connection with this debate – that this was about minority rights. No, it was a unanimous committee that asked for that kind of information. Nor have I found any other examples of a committee asking for that kind of information and not getting it from the government – when one has asked for it in the way the committee did here. Another matter which is equally important, but which was not part of that discussion, for there was not necessarily unanimity in the Committee, was the opinion of the Advocate General of the Government on the legal situation. There the government claimed, in line with usual practice, that it is not published. Yes, there are examples of it being published when it's important for the matter, and we're talking about maybe the biggest administrative and judicial scandal that's been in Norway for many, many years. The type of thinking was distributed in the context of the Storting survey of the banking crisis, which was carried out in the 1990s. So we haven't been able to see it either. And maybe the worst thing we've seen of systematic secrecy is the e-mail we've been given access to, where Nav internly says that «after further consideration we see that it would be appropriate for the directorate to contact the Riksadvokat orally and agree to a meeting to review the matter rather than to send the letter. This is because the Riksadvokat practises full publicity.’ Yes, we should all be concerned that that attitude towards publicity is part of public administration. In addition, I will be allowed to add that in many of the answers we have received from the ministry, especially from the Prime Minister, it has been repeatedly said that one will not go further into the details because one refers to the Investigation Commission – systematic work to make the work of the Control Committee more difficult on the matter. The Council of State itself said in its statement today that ‘several questions should have been raised earlier’. That's very much what this is all about. If the question had been raised when there was a basis for raising questions, the prosecution had been informed at an earlier time when there was a basis for briefing, or if the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs had made his colleague the Minister of Justice aware that here we might have a legal advantage, it would have been possible that some of those who have been convicted had not been. That's why we have an attitude where we say that the government's management is highly critical. When it is so obvious, among other things. that questions should have been asked earlier, and that information to the Committee has been poor, it is natural to reach such a conclusion. To say exactly what I mean: what had been most natural in this matter, had been that when the Council of State became aware of the situation, and it took so long before it was traded, the Council of State should take responsibility itself. I understand that people react to the fact that neither the director of the Nav nor the Council of State takes responsibility for the situation that has arisen, perhaps first and foremost the way it has been handled after it arose. So it's not like a government council must be responsible for responsibility. The previous Council of State often pointed to Nav as the problem, but that is the responsibility of the Council of State. And that responsibility should have been taken, which the majority make a clear opinion about in the vote. If the majority of the population chooses not to think that the way the case is handled is highly critical, there is reason to worry about how to deal with that kind of issue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1267	The vote will take a break in the debate on item No. 2
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1283	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 was an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1296	Case No. 2 is not finished and will be past Tuesday, 10 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1336	We shall then continue the debate on substance. 2nd@item: inlistbox The next speaker is Eirik Faret Sakariassen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1341	This is a very serious matter. People have paid back large sums, and several have been sentenced to prison sentences. It should never have happened, but it happened anyway. Legal certainty is unevenly distributed in Norway, and this case must lead to major changes, not only in Nav, but also in many public agencies and administrative institutions. The most important thing in this discussion must be the individual and their stories. It has made a deep impression on many of us to read and hear about how they have been treated – about shame, about uncertainty, about humility, about being labeled a criminal, while at the same time being considered innocent. And for many of these people, they were actually. I've talked to one of the people who was hit by this. Her name is Kari and she lives in my home state of Rogaland. She's having heart problems. To sell a property in Sweden that she could not afford to keep, she had to travel a lot. I didn't lie and sold myself, I was going to sell a property, she told me. She thinks the system is very rigid and that there should be more room to see the individual. Many major decisions are not decided locally, where they know the user. She never felt that she was cheating. The same thought Nav locally, but centrally it was tightened in. It has to be cleaned up in Nav,' said Kari to me. She's right about that. She tells of positive employees in Nav locally, but has felt like a caste ball. When everything narrow, she was told to read the Social Security Act. It was a shock for her to be tried and convicted. She chose a confessional sentence in order to be able to move on quickly in life, for the last four years had been about this matter. Kari was sentenced to 30 days conditional imprisonment. She had to pay me back about 90,000 kroner. They've got her back. The payments have been suspended for the time being. But she still has a claim of 189 000 kroner, which is not deleted. She's still living with the uncertainty. She said, You need to be safe when you're in the system. I didn't steal one penny. Getting one of those things when you're already on the rim has been a lift for someone with stress-related heart problems. The pressure has been enormous for four years. That's what this is about. A few years ago, I visited a week in Nav Eiganes and Tasta in my home town of Stavanger. I learned a lot from that. For me it was clear both then and now that there are very many good people working in Nav. Many of them are the last chance of failure and failure. But in many cases they lose their ability to help, either because the law no longer extends, or because they work in a system of difficult framework conditions. Many are in the middle of doing a good job and fear of telling them about the wrong. It makes sense to listen to what the employees themselves say. Where you listen to employees, to those who wear their shoes, you make better judgements. Internally in Nav, there can be no culture that does not allow for factual criticism based on experience and employee input. ‘The information in this case shows that several notified what they considered to be a misinterpretation of the legislation. It was reported, but no one took it seriously enough,” said Hanne Glemmestad from FO on their website after the Nav hearing. It is serious that the concerns of employees in this case have not been taken sufficiently seriously. Then this could possibly have been revealed earlier. It became known, unfortunately, not. That is why we are here today and must acknowledge that this is a huge scandal. This clearly shows that there is a need for trust reform also in Nav. I met the management at FO yesterday. They are clear in meeting me, but also in the hearing, that trust reform is needed. Many parts of the public sector are subject to strong target management, comprehensive control, a high level of reporting and tight frameworks. It hampers the professionalism of employees, and in many cases it puts an end to common sense. Those who are closest to Nav users in their daily lives must obviously be the ones who best understand the individual’s needs – rather than government-led politicians in big business. Changes are essential to enable Nav to live up to its own motto: ‘We give people opportunities’. Then Nav cannot be directed in a direction where you can no longer meet up at your nearest Nav office to get help. We need a hub that is close to those who need them. Hubs shall help people, either at work or for income protection. There is a large and complex organisation that is fragmented into different parts that need to communicate better. We need to strengthen both the social and legal competence of Nav employees, precisely in order to ensure a good interpretation of laws and regulations. Trust and competence are interrelated. It is easier for everyone to give up control when one is sure that the competence is high and good. What we have to remember is that today and the treatment of this matter in the Storting cannot mean a sentence. It's not over now. What has been revealed clearly shows that the government and the Storing have a lot of work ahead of them when there are strong changes in how Nav is organized and what tools they can use. There is a need for a major review of the whole Nav system, with the aim of ensuring a level that meets all the inhabitants who need Nav in their life phase, in a good way, and that is a good job for all the thousands of good people who go to work every day in one of the most important gears of the welfare state. We all deserve to have employees and their professionalism given more trust and space for action, precisely to ensure wise decisions in line with Norwegian laws and the rights of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1376	The representative of the Father Sakariassen is absolutely right. It's not over now. That's when it has to start. There is a lack of systematics in how legislation is done. Norway’s obligations under regulations and conventions are not clear enough in the legal text, not systematic enough in the legal text. There is one error source. In a Question Time in November, I asked Prime Minister Solberg if she agreed. Then she was reprehensible. But it's necessary to do that. Furthermore, a different system has to be introduced when administrative decisions are converted into courts and, for example, into courts. That's a dry-cleaner's dish. In that case, the administration must have procedures for reconsidering the judgment – not only for the individual case, but also for whether the error may have consequences for others, and whether it is necessary to change practices in such cases. I also asked Erna Solberg about this in November, just after the scandal broke. Also she was rejecting it. These are systems that need to be put in place to ensure that you avoid making mistakes, and that, if you find that something in the judicial system has been done wrong, you systematically correct it and then come back to Stortinget, who is the legislator, to get the law changed. For Norway, being a legal state, and the litmus test on whether legal certainty applies to everyone, is whether it also applies to those who have little money, little power and little reputation in society. This matter – and I have heard more say about it from Stortinget’s pulpit today – we have to take it seriously and realize that it is not. There's a big difference, which I'll come back to a little bit. But first just a little turn within the Nav. Now the representative was Faret Saccharissen into it, and also the representative Lise Christoffersen into place, and I join in all they have said. Because when, on the blackest day of your life, you have to take the celebrity test in the bureaucracy to help you, something has gone wrong. If you print wrong, it's game over, and if you're really unhappy, you're going to jail. It can't be like that. We have to change the system so that it actually helps people who have it hard, and a legal system across. It's important. So until the matter we're dealing with now, about the criticism of the state council and the government: Yes, that criticism is justified, not because it is necessarily the case that there is only one state council that has made mistakes, or one council that has made mistakes, but because the state council did not inform about what she knew, immediately – not to the Grand Council, not to the Riksadvokat – so that one could have stopped ongoing matters that ended with judgment. And the council informed Stortinget wrong – she said this was only about matters of short stay abroad, and no longer about matters. Here there was a government council, a government, and a political leadership that did not respond when the alarm went on, to some of the most serious things that could happen from a state power, namely that they have convicted their own inhabitants errors. It is very serious, and therefore the criticism that has come is quite justified. The council also said that all the stones should be turned, but there were certainly some rocks below which the council would not want the Stortinget and the public to see. Those stones are still there, and what's below, we haven't been told. But it could be that there is something there that, fundamentally and in principle, can show the reasons that led to it, for example. not further informed. It doesn't know the Storting, but it needs both the Storting and the public to know. What happened there, we don't know. What has happened in the courts, there are also several people who have been involved. I belong to those who become very concerned when we have a court system that only bases the judgements of the administration and does not itself go into the legal base and other legal sources that deal with the issues being dealt with. And it hasn't just happened in these cases. I chair the Municipal and Administrative Committee, which is responsible for asylum and refugee policy. If it's true that those who are in Nav are far below the rank ladder, they're probably the second bottom of the rank ladder, while those who get their cases treated in UDI and UNE are at the bottom of the rank ladder. There have also been cases of misappropriation where people have been sentenced to prison because they have come to Norway with false papers. They're allowed to do that after the refugee convention. It has been taken up, and some matters have been changed. A circular has been sent from the National Attorney on how these matters should now be understood, but a similar review of the matters that have been done with the Nav cases has not been carried out. There is now a representative proposal from SV for discussion in Stortinget on this, as it also shows that legal certainty is not the same for all. But it has to be. We can mean different things about asylum and refugee policy, but we cannot believe that it is a little more convenient for people seeking asylum in Norway, or for foreigners in Norway, to be convicted of non-criminals. We can't be serious. It's not legal certainty. At least it is not the legal certainty that SV believes should be present in a legal State. I expect both the government and the majority of the Stortinget – or everyone in Stortinget – to agree that it should not be that there is a little more to be done with someone who is being convicted illegally than others who are being convicted illegally. Of course, it is about legal aid and all the things that have been mentioned earlier in the debate by several here, but it is also about getting a completely systematic review of all of these fields to correct the mistakes that have been made and to ensure that this does not happen again. For this we cannot live with. It cannot be the case that people in Norway are convicted without there being a basis for it. Especially is it bad when we know that it most affects those who have it most difficult in different ways. I don't think any of us can imagine how terrible it is to get a sentence in such a situation as these people have been in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1397	First of all, I would like to express my joy at the fact that the Council of State could point out – and I have read it on a website today – that there are now some cases that are being followed up in the judiciary, and all the evidence suggests that the EFTA Court is also involved in such a treatment, and that it can clarify the uncertainty we still need about what is the legal one here. That's very good. Otherwise, I must say that the debate has been quite predictable. It's pretty familiar attitudes, and it's exciting to hear how everything would be different if only. There are many who have clear conclusions about what would have happened if what has not happened happened. That's a nice piece of knowledge. But we'll see about that. I just want to remind you that, with regard to the involvement of the Riksadvokat, the Riksadvokat has a self-responsive responsibility to follow up on what is happening, and to have access to it. That's it. Now I also see that the sitter's lawyer is active in that respect. Then to the two proposals that have been promoted. The SV's proposal is difficult to deal with because it means that the Storting should set up a panel and give it a mandate to enter into other contexts that the Storting has nothing to do with. That's weird. So it's the government that has appointed the review committee, and we should now appoint a panel that could go into that work or into internal work forms in the department and department. It will be strange, even though I understand the intention of the proposal. It will therefore be difficult to support. Then we've talked a little bit in the Chamber, and at least I can say on behalf of the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party, independent representative and the Right that we think that in our proposal Moxnes has a good intention, and in common with us, namely that we must grasp what we have all seen are major weaknesses in the system internally in Nav, and that it should be looked at. However, in the context of the very clear feedback from the Council of State to the Moxnes in the reply, we thought – and that was what we thought before this reply – that it is difficult to decide on the Commission, the sample, who should be involved, etc. But we are sure that the Council of State will follow up, and we are asking Moxnes to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal. Then at least all of these parties will support it, but without it it will be difficult to support it. It could be a nice way to get together in a matter in which we have a common interest. I also want to confirm that we are several who are then going to make sure that the Council of State follows up, so there should be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1410	With regard to the proposal we have made, it is good to hear that there is a great deal of consensus about the need for what they experience both those who work in Nav, and not least those who are the users of the services of problems, that the information actually flows up to the top of the Nav and leads to real changes. One of the reasons for this crisis is that it has not come through despite many notifications and warnings both from trade unions, from employees directly and directly from users. We understand that some people dwell above the level of detail and the word ‘Commission’. At the same time, we believe it is important that a kind of decision be made to bring the government back to the Storting, so that the Storting can decide on what is to be achieved from any changes and improvements in the system. In the first place, we will propose a rewording of the proposal, which will then be amended, no matter how the vote goes, to the following: ‘It is recommended to the government that a work be started in which Nav’s various trade unions and users are directly represented, with the aim of ensuring that issues in the first line and in the internal Nav’s are followed up and that the government returns to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ I hope that it can be chewed from different parties until voting on Tuesday. Then you have a few days to think about it a little bit back and forth. Of course, I would also like to hear the views of the Council of State on such a decision, which I would think would be easy to follow if it were adopted by the Stortinget. Then, of course, we will also assess the transmission or promote it when it comes to voting on Tuesday. But then at least it's our modified proposal, which is sent out to the rest of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1428	The President then perceives that the proposal has been amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1433	Now the debate is not complete, but I still have some final remarks. Firstly, I would like to say once again that it has been important that the control committee has done a thorough job, because, as I said in my speech, this is a matter that extends far back in time, has great and serious implications for those affected, and where there are also a huge number of learning points. They're learning points for the whole public system. I also have to make some comments about the use of the word ‘secretiveness’. There may be a perfectly legitimate disagreement about what a government should deliver. There is also a legal discussion about what the Control Committee has the right to deliver, and what the Parliament has the right to deliver. But it's important that it doesn't get the impression that any government – and this will apply to any government, regardless of batch color or composition – has documents of a non-public nature, it's by definition a secret, as you normally use the word. It's important. It's very rare – I haven't heard anyone who has in general spoken about it with e.g. r-notes — that there has been a problem that it should not be disclosed to the public in the usual way. Of course, I have also noticed the discussion earlier about the fact that handing it over to the control committee does not mean that it will be public, but it is important that the understanding of secrecy as such should not be kept. This case has also raised a number of issues that are fundamental and thus have something to say for future precedent, and that is important. I have a basic attitude, and that's that just when it's storming, it's important to hold on to precedent as far as you can, because even if our system can sometimes fail, it's like we have a good and functioning system. That is why I am pleased that several parties on Stortinget have registered the same thing as we have registered, namely that several of these cases are now also being tried by law. It is obvious that here it is, as in any state of law, the court that ultimately determines the legal status – without me subtracting anything from what I have said in the past about why the government and the authorities have had the assessments that we have had, and are firmly attached to them. So a few words about what goes on, because it's worth saying something about it as well. The review committee has only provided a preliminary sub-examination. When they come with their final investigation – it is a huge and complicated work – I will come back to Stortinget on the basis of it, and then there will be a new round where the Stortinget will decide how to follow it up. Then it is important to stress – once again in the last post that this is not a matter we are done with, nor in the harvest. A number of the follow-up points are things we'll have to work with for years to come. It is worth pointing out – at least in this context – that although there is a majority and a minority in the control committee, there are some points on which the control committee as such is fully agreed, among others. both system, practice and culture to raise issues and clarify them, not least when there are problematic issues. Two words at the end about the proposals that have come in: The Storting will decide for themselves how they will deal with those proposals, but I can only say a little about what I intend to do. I believe that there is a type of division of labour between the government and the Stortinget in terms of managing the floors. It's the government's responsibility, and then the Storting has a great deal of control, but of course also sets the overall framework for it. What I'm going to do is invite the trade unions in Nav to a meeting. Of course, we also talk to the management in Nav, and that's because I know that both management – it will also apply to new management, which comes into place when the current director goes off – and the employees are concerned about how we should have systems and culture so that such errors do not happen again, at least minimize the possibility of that. Then there's one possibility that we're going to discuss, and that I'm going to have with me, a commission or a sample -- what you call it, is a little arbitrary in that context, but that's one of the possibilities that we have to discuss. I would probably think that it is very detailed to ask the Council of State to come back with such a specific measure in an underlying establishment, especially when you know that the government will come back to this matter as such, but it will have the Storting decide. We also come back on a number of occasions where you can say something about how we follow up Nav as such. As far as SV's proposals are concerned, the representative Harberg has explained well, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1456	I'm not going to help finish the time, it was just the one question that the Council of State in the exchange of lines with Lundtegen said it was impossible for him to answer. I get that, because the question was why, among other things. The working party did not attend a comment on the previous Report. St. 40 in Innst. 108 S for 2017-2018. I just thought I would explain why the Workers' Party did not go into that note. We carefully considered the comment – I was shadow rapporteur on the matter, so I remember it well. The way in which the comment was formulated could be misunderstood and give the impression that the EEA Agreement prevents Norway from drawing up its own national social security rules. But there is no harmonisation of social security rules in Europe – it is up to each country to decide for itself. EEA legislation only intervenes when people move across national borders. What a unanimous committee said was: ‘The Committee agrees with the government’s objective of reducing the export of Norwegian welfare benefits. The Committee notes that the EEA Agreement limits what Norway can do to limit social security exports.» It was a unanimous committee and a unanimous magnificence, and I cannot understand how a government may feel so divided by a unanimous committee. In addition, there was a note in the attitude of the Workers' Party and SV where we criticized the government for not having clarified the relationship with EEA law well enough, including. in the case of the issue of living conditions adjustment of family allowances and cash support, including whether such a living conditions adjustment would also apply to Norwegian nationals residing abroad. I believe that there is at least as much EEA logic in the comment, as the Senter party then chose to stand outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1470	Some thoughts – and answers, not least – at the end of this day: Firstly, as you know, there have been quite a number of well-known positions in this debate. But there's one argument that I would like to answer that may have surprised me a little, and it's about the disagreement about when the Social Security Court was agreed in its rulings. It is very important for the matter, too, because it is about when you can have an expectation that you will actually discover it and do something. Then there is a criticism of us in the opposition from several of the government parties – it goes back to all their posts – when we point out that the Social Security Court started to abolish Nav's practice in June 2017. That is interesting, because the point is that from June 2017 the Social Security Court was reunited in practice in the cases in which they actually assessed the EEA Social Security Regulation, and it became clear at the hearing. Yes, it is absolutely true that after June 2017, there were also confirmations of Nav’s decision from the Social Security Court, but there were confessions that did not assess the Social Security Regulation at all. It was very clear to the representatives of the Social Security Court in the hearing, and it has also been clear to the opposition afterwards. The point is then – that the warning from the Social Security Court that something was wrong started already in 2017, but that it was not caught for a long time, long after. Then there has now been a discussion about the solutions to the matter. SV has put forward a proposal that the representative Harberg now gave some sort of reason why the Right does not want to vote in favour. He points out that the Storting with that proposal will put down a sample. But it's the way we, as is very common, ask the government to put down a sample – or a panel, as it's called in this case – that will represent the users, the affected ones, in Nav. Why is that important, why are we promoting that proposal? Well, because we're now repeatedly seeing examples of some major shortcomings in the cleanup. For example, there are several victims of this scandal who have gone out and said that they have experienced that it takes up to two months to get answers from the Nav response team. They're not well received, they don't get the answers they need. We have also heard that there are quite a number of people who still have payment notes from Nav's repayment requirements, people who still cannot buy themselves, for example. a phone – something so basic. There are two examples that the perspective of users, the perspective of the victims, needs to be better represented in the clean-up process, ranging from research committees and Nav’s response team to the work done by the ministry. Therefore, SV proposes to give them a vote as a hearing party, as a reference group, simply so that their perspective is better maintained. The representative, Mr Björn Moxnes, from Red, has then put forward a proposal that is more concerned with the role of trade unions. I would just like to say briefly that SV supports this, also in the new form that the representative has explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1480	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1485	In order to avoid a vote on the proposal when it is a common wish that it be followed up, we will turn it into a transmission proposal. We've done it in line with that, and then it's part of the treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1490	Then the representative, Mr Björn Moxnes, made a proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1495	I think it was wise for the representative of Moxnes to do so. I expect, on the basis of what the Council of State said, that the good intentions of the proposal will be followed up. Because that's one of the things we've actually seen very clearly through the hearing and the recordings we've got, that there's been communication here that could have led to things being clarified earlier, but that hasn't come to them it should have come to, or not been answered as it should have been. So it is very good that the Council of State has said that he will follow it up. It should not be the main theme of this matter in view of all those affected, but I would just like to make a brief comment on what the Council of State said about openness and secrecy. It can't be said that there's some kind of precedent in these kinds of things. We have almost never had this kind of case. What is present in the precedent of control activities and the legal basis for that, I referred to. This applies, inter alia, to: the aftermath of the banking crisis, for which there was a control case in the 1990s. The government then chose to issue the Government Attorney's assessments because the bus was a central part of the case. The social debate has later shown that it has been part of the matter, and that was my starting point for commenting on it. Once again, I would like to stress that it is a misunderstanding that sending information to the Storting Control Committee is the same as that things are public, which Red Isaac himself was involved in. That being said – the most important thing in this case is that it is cleaned up in the future. The most important thing is that what has been said by an overall committee will be met, that the review committee will have to enter in time before 2012. There was a period of a little discussion about it, at least in the media. Then we hope that it can provide a good basis for it to be first cleared up for them, and second, that for the future we avoid these kinds of things.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1504	As everyone knows, the EEA Agreement is dynamic. It is increasingly complex, and thus it becomes more and more inconspicuous. We know that the European Court of Justice has an important role to play in interpreting the various directives, and we also know that the European Court of Justice, through its decisions, creates an increasingly detailed new understanding of the law. This has helped us to be in an incredibly demanding situation. The legal association has had a meeting today and described this and what consequences it must have for our entire education of lawyers. It's very demanding. Professor Eivind Smith has called the whole EEA agreement a constitutional disaster – very specifically, in my opinion. When I took the word, it was among other things. because Lise Christoffersen said that the comment I referred to that only received SV's support in Innst. 108 S for 2017-2018, which was applicable to Meldning. St. 40 for 2016-2017, on the export of Norwegian welfare benefits, could be misunderstood. That's not right. I'm sitting with Meld. St. 40. On page 12 of Section 2.1 — the legislation under which social security benefits are exported states: ‘It is important to be aware that the provisions of the international agreements intervene in national law and go ahead if there is a contradiction between the two sets of rules.’;» What I wrote as the case rapporteur, and that only got SV's agreement, was: ‘The members of the Committee of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party indicate that the provisions of the international agreements interfere with the national legislation and even go ahead of it if there is a contradiction between the two sets of rules.’ So it's a very precise description of what councillor Hauglie presented in his big message, and it's no wonder that one got surprised when the council's own representatives in the hall couldn't join it. Furthermore, in the same setting, 108 S, a note from the Workers' Party and the SV that the Centre's party did not agree, that it was not ‘declared whether the living conditions adjustment of family allowances and cash support for beneficiaries in other EEA countries would be in line with the internal market legislation’. When the Central Party did not participate in that comment, it was because the two parties believed that it was ‘critical that the government did not provide such clarification before the matter was dealt with in the Stortinget’. At that time, we knew that it was beyond the control of the government, because there was a lack of clarification in the EU that led to it. In the opinion of the Centre Party, there is no reason to criticise the government. Otherwise, the Center Party wrote a separate comment about it in the same setting, which did not get any connection. We wrote: ‘This member would stress that without the limitations of the EEA Agreement, Norway’s ability to limit the export of Norwegian welfare benefits would be much greater than they are today.’ That, in my opinion, is a precise description. We will soon have to consider the consequences of the EEA Agreement. That is what is happening in the whole of this case, that from the pre-processors to the EEA Agreement, which was presented in 1992, and the decision which entered into force on 1 January 1994, it has been a slippery move in the sense that it has become increasingly clear and clearer in the field by area of the consequences for the Norwegian collapse in terms of the space for action to exercise what is needed in Norway. It's always been limited because we have the EEA Agreement, and that's part of the reason for the situation we're in. Finally, the SV’s proposal to create a panel: the centre party considers that this is not a necessary measure. From the Labour and Social Committee, the government has agreed to have its own law specific to that Commission, with Professor Arnesen at the head, so that the Commission can freely access all Nav users' and Nav staff's assessments, without being able to cause users or employees' problems with their performances, careers or whatever it should be. It is, in our opinion, well cared for. That is why we believe that the proposal to now set up a panel of people with Nav user experience is not necessary, given what the Committee has done in the past in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1532	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-05.ana.ud18e1538	Today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
