ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e25	The representative Bears Moxnes, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. An application for sick leave for the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has been submitted from the Group of the Progressive Alliance from 5 October until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Mazyar Keshvari, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde's leave due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Oslo, Carl I. Hagen, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e57	Carl I. Hagen is present and wants to take a seat. The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e64	On behalf of Siv Jensen and myself, I am delighted to propose stricter penalties for attacks and damage to the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e69	The representative, Siv Jensen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e74	On behalf of the representative Sylvi Listhaug and myself, I propose mandatory testing for covid-19 when entering Norway as well as increased testing capacity to ensure effective and accurate quarantine provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e79	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e84	On behalf of Solfrid Lerbreck, Nicholas Wilkinson, Lars Haltbrecken, Mona Fagerås, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Freddy André Övstegård and myself, I will make proposals to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, CRPD, into the Human Rights Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e89	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present seven proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e95	We're productive! I am promoting on behalf of Red a proposal for a school without any profit. We are promoting a proposal to introduce legal consequences for welfare professionals in the event of a breach of law, regulation or contract. We promote a proposal to monitor and control the government's work on monitoring cash flows in publicly funded welfare services. We also promote a proposal to ban recruitment agencies, to remove access to temporary employment and to strengthen employers' responsibilities. Furthermore, we are promoting a proposal for the evacuation of refugees from Greece, based on the critical Moria situation, to the extent that Norwegian municipalities have the capacity to accept. The second last proposal being put forward is a proposal to stop NorthConnect at last, and finally we are promoting a proposal to remove the withdrawal period for the recipients of redundancy payments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e112	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e117	On behalf of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Silje Hämdal, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to transfer authority to the municipality, so that the rules on Sunday-open shops are regulated by the municipalities without being overruled by the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e122	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e127	I want to make a proposal on behalf of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Sandra Borch, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself to ensure safe maternity and maternity services throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e132	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e150	The debate takes place over two days and starts with speeches by parliamentary leaders of up to 10 minutes, followed by a row of up to six lines for each post, then 43 posts of up to 5 minutes, completed on the first day of the debate and distributed as such between the parties: Working Party 13 posts, Right 11 posts, Advance Party 7 posts, Centre Party 5 posts, Socialist Left Party 3 posts, Left 2 posts and Christian Party 2 posts. It opens up four lines after two of the posts of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party and after one of the posts of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each, with a subsequent row of up to six lines. After completion of the allocated speaking time, open for articles of up to 3 minutes. Sitting of Tuesday, 10 a.m. 10 and starting with a post from the Prime Minister of up to 15 minutes, followed by a row of 14 lines, broken down by size. Then comes any remaining three-minute speeches from Monday’s meeting and those who report during Tuesday’s debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e167	Around the country there are people who are following this debate with both peace and unrest. They know calmly because they've seen that the community and our political system pass the test in front of the pandemic. The census gives recognition to everyone in our country who stands up for sick and vulnerable people — in health care, school, transport, sanitation and other vital parts of the world of work. The working party completes that recognition. When the crisis was at its greatest in ours, Stortinget was also conscious of its responsibility. The U.S. government's proposals were quickly corrected in Stortinget. The Korona Law came in without losing valuable time. The size of the sample lasted for a critical time. It helped all parties. We are not done with the covid-19, and the covid-19 is probably not finished. Had all parties in this room hold fast to the will and ability to secure safe solutions for countries and people. Then it is so that many in our country at the same time are concerned about what they experience in their lives, in their everyday lives. Many pensioners have experienced less money to travel with for several years, while employees have received more. With the Workers' Party's model for the regulation of pensions, this injustice ends. Until now, the right hand parts have said no. We are repeating our proposal today. Others are involuntarily out of the labour market. Many people who get a foot within do so through temporary part-time jobs, often with poor payment. I am particularly concerned that tens of thousands of young people, who are now vulnerable to the coronary crisis, are struggling to get into work. An entire position, a permanent position, a good salary – it provides security in everyday life for people and families. This is also how we pay for our common well-being in this country. What is good for the individual is good for the country and for the community at the same time. So many people say – when we look around the world – that we are doing well in Norway, and they are right. At the same time, many feel that there is a concern about social development and about where Norway is going. They are concerned about a development with increasing disparities between rich and poor and between cities and countries, worrying that the welfare state is not there when they need it, worrying about serious climate change, but also about climate policy setting unfair and setting the end date for jobs without new ones coming. It is easy to understand this concern, because it is based on harsh — and often unpleasant — realities on the right. Differences are increasing in Norway. It is a reality. Differences in wealth are now on the level of the UnitedKingdom class society – in Norway. The differences in income are much greater than previously assumed. A recent report by the SSB states that the richest people in our country earn both more and taxes less than what appears in common statistics. What was the Right’s response to this development? Where did the National Meeting of the Right come from? Where did they put their mark? Well, removing the property tax, the entire property tax, that was the answer. So the richest in this country must be even richer. According to the National Meeting of the Court of Justice, Norway now needs more than 25 000 zero-tax payers. What Norway needs now is a 200-million-dollar tax haven. kr to the municipality of Bærum alone, more than the whole of North Norway together. What Norway needs now is a solid tax haven where there is zero – zero – evidence that it creates a single new job. On the contrary, in a report the government itself has ordered, which is mentioned in the DN today, it is black on white that increased taxes on wealth can provide more jobs, not fewer jobs. Removing the wealth tax is so unsocial and unfair in a country with increasing inequality, so unmusical in the midst of a crisis where ordinary people are hit. There is a confirmation that the lot on the right is occupied by the property tax. And we remember the Right-Man and historian Francis Sejersted's brutal recognition in a volume of Right-History, which I got for my birthday – thank you for that: ‘Rights have always served as a party of interest to those better off in society.’ That's the way it was before, and so it's still like that. It is also a reality that we have had a crisis of confidence in the districts. People in the districts see that the state is withdrawing, that the police are withdrawing, that the local hospitals are weakened by the poor economy, that training places in the districts are being laid down, that development funds for industry in the districts are being removed, and that the oil, fish and forest – our common natural resources – provide few jobs locally and regionally where people live. It's a reality that there's a gradual division of our health system in an a and b health system. Eight out of ten Northmen are concerned about that two-way division. Six out of ten think we already have. And that's not strange, because our common public hospital, our hospitals, is chronically underfunded. We are far behind our neighbors in using new, more expensive cancer drugs, with the result that rich people can save themselves, while ordinary people get no to new, lifesaving medicine. Right-wing privatisation reform was supposed to mean, with the words of Health Minister Höie, that there was no longer a need for private health insurance. Now we have the phase: the number of health insurances has increased by over 200,000. At the same time, the community hospital for money and professionals is being confiscated. Now private commercials are also to be allowed into the care of the elderly. The two-way northerly fears, has become clearer. The government's policy hurts worse. The Labour Party wants a fairer Norway, and it can contribute to this. We go to the elections on three major promises: safe work for all and stronger welfare state an effective and fair climate policy; In order to create jobs, we want companies to meet an active state that contributes more and that requires more return. We need a country that is gaining capital, supporting new technologies and using ownership and public procurement to create jobs and achieve other important societal goals. We need a state that demands business. More of our natural resources are to be transformed and provide jobs here at home. The organisation of work shall be strengthened. Without it, our society model won't survive. Together with a strong trade union movement, we will fight social dumping, pay theft and labour crime, and we will limit rent and ensure that more people can work full-time. The second promise we make is to make our common welfare state stronger. It should include everyone, regardless of who you are, and where you live. No young person shall fall outside and all older persons shall be safe. Then we need a stronger state of public welfare. We need stronger local hospitals, an ambulance service that comes when it really is urgent, full-time midwives in all district municipalities and a police and fire services that are present where people live. We need better quality and capacity in our common hospitals. We need schools, universities and colleges that can provide young people with the best education they need to get into a changing working life, and that can take on new societal tasks to ensure that workers have the right to new knowledge throughout their working life. All older people shall be sure that they receive assistance tailored to their needs. They have the right to a safe and dignified old age. Norway’s climate targets are to be met. That's our third promise. We need a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. In the future, the safest jobs will be nature-friendly and climate-friendly. Young people demand it, and industrial workers can supply it. Norway has the best conditions for building a new, climate-friendly industry based on clean Norwegian energy. Our professionals can develop new, good jobs and climate solutions that the world needs, for example. in carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, sea wind and green shipping. But then we need a new majority in this room who know that the climate crisis cannot be resolved by each individual or by the market alone. The Court’s national meeting gave its answer to what Norway needs now: removing the entire wealth tax. There are clear differences between the Right answer and our answer. In our new programme proposal, the main thing is safe work for everyone, a strong defence of public welfare and an effective and fair climate policy. Our dream is a strong community in which we make the differences smaller and the possibilities greater regardless of background and place of residence. Our ambition is a stronger community where we solve the big problems together. The elections in a year's time will be an ideological battle for values, direction and things. Eight years with the Right in Government and the Advance Party as the support wheel is enough. 2021 will be a policy choice for Norway. I am addressing the proposals that the Labour Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e229	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e236	I am very pleased to hear the representative Gahr Støre stand firm on the desire for consensus on the handling of the coronary crisis. There's been a good dialogue in Stortinget, and I hope we can continue. But then the representative Gahr Støre looks forward, and toward the end he refers to his own party program, which he has just presented. That's where he has postponed – he put a lot of emphasis on it – the tax conclusions, you have to get back to them. There was a lot of concrete about expenses, it was also in the post to Gahr Støre. We know that the Workers' Party will reverse free treatment choices, they will cut in private kindergartens, they say no to the railway launch, they will cut in the ABE reform, and New Roads really think they're some customs. We have released several tens of billions of more efficient operations. I understand that Gahr Støre will postpone the tax component, because this program is going to be very expensive. So when will he present this, and how much will it cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e245	We want a more redistributive tax system. It allows us to invest more in common well-being – projects we're going to have to do now. We want a more effective state, and we're going to do it through political choices, not through flat cheese-happiness that happens arbitrarily, throughout the system. Then it's like we're going to come up with our tax treatment after we see what the tax treatment for 2021 is. It is a good starting point to consider what is the starting point in the autumn of 2021. We need to make sure that it becomes more distributive, more fair. Those with low and medium income must pay less in taxes. Those of us who make a lot of money and have assets can pay something more. Business needs predictability, and we need to make sure that we also use the tax system to stimulate new industries, green industries, growth industries. And then the Workers' Party will normally implement its policy year after year, the budget for the budget, which is known here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e252	It's very interesting that the representative Gahr Støre uses so much of his post to say first that we are doing well in Norway, and then it's at the point after point after point black paint of the situation: it's too bad, and more public effort is needed. There is not a single word that the thousands of jobs created in the private sector are important. It's the public that's going to be in focus all the way. Then I think it's nice to read the program to the Workers' Party, the program design – a work that Gahr Støre himself has led. The Workers' Party has some wording on taxes, but as I said, they are going to come back to this. And then finally you write: ‘The degree of implementation of the Programme will depend on the economic development and space for action of the State budget.’ There are so many reservations about how revenue is to be generated, how revenue is to be included in the government budget, while on the expenditure side there is no reservation, where billions of people are to race out without any interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e264	Where billions rage, it's from parties that are going to cut the entire wealth tax, eliminate the billions that can bet on young people in education. We need to halve the number of nurses in Norway to pay only for one measure. So sealing holes in the heart bag must basically start with the representative of Helleland himself. My installation is a powerful contribution to policy making that enables our business life – the small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of business, but also the big ones – to play with the state to achieve the big goals. The decade we go into, with major technological changes, requires a state that sets up, but also demands – demands that we have processing in Norway, ring-effects in Norway and jobs in Norway. That's what my post was about. A strong welfare state is good for business. Then people are safe if they get sick, they can go to work while kindergartens are there for the kids, they can participate in the work. It's this social contract The right is playing with when the differences are increasing and public welfare is retreating. It's bad for business, and the Workers' Party will be good for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e273	The working party angles on a case-by-case basis. Immigration policy is bad. One day you should not accept asylum seekers from Moria, the next you should, but no one can say how many there are, and that is not interesting either, according to the representative Gahr Støre. One day you're going to develop the oil industry, and the next is the other that's going to shut down the same industry. Raymond Johansen in Oslo is in love with the MDG, and Gahr Støre says he will not cooperate with them in government. More and more in the party now say that we have to do something about taxes on goods placed on the market. What we see, is that all parties the Workers' Party will cooperate with, including themselves, are very concerned with increasing tax and tax pressure in Norway. At the same time, closed borders have now led to thousands of new jobs in Norway. What does the representative Gahr Støre think should be done with the taxes on goods placed on the market today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e280	I'm not going far into telling who the Workers' Party is in love with. In the case of the Progress Party, they have fallen in love with the role of support wheels. Either they're inside, or they're outside, but they're supporting a right-wing government in what they're implementing of politics, and it's interesting to observe. We come with our tax schedule when we've seen what it's like for 2021. I can say it this way: we're going to have a fair policy. That's why we're going to make sure that people who pay the highest price today for a tax system that's not redistributive enough get better out there. Those of us with high incomes and wealth can pay something more. Then we have to make sure that our fissure layer works. It works through what we include in taxes and charges. It's something. But it also works through a welfare state that gives people opportunities – opportunities to get into education, opportunities to get into work, opportunities to take on new technologies in the workplace. So that's how we create more. The most important way we can fund our society is through work. It's getting more people working, putting their efforts there, and that's what the Labour Party is prioritizing in its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e289	Everyone's going, they say it in the Workers' Party, and that's good. We in the Centre Party are committed to eradicating geographical and social differences, as well as the economic nature of the state when laws and regulations need to be adapted to facilitate growth in the districts. It is very important that concrete measures are taken as soon as possible to stimulate growth for those who need it the most and who do not get ahead when socio-economic criteria are presented. It must be an unbureaucratic model that is precise and concrete and that meets the core of the challenges faced by many communities today. The Workers' Party's draft Party programme states that they will develop regional agreements between the State, municipalities and regions that will provide development and growth throughout the country, and long-term frameworks for business, transport, housing, education and well-being. What is included in the concept of ‘regions’ in this context, and what does the representative Gahr Støre believe that the country’s commitment to the regional agreements referred to should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e297	This programme is being launched throughout Norway, the city and the country, as a red thread in all areas. District policy is not a single field, but it is about how we facilitate work, that there is security for well-being, that there is security for housing, that there is security for people to bet. Our country has many of its top resources in what we call the districts, and we have to make it possible for them to develop in the years to come, with greater ring-effects. When we say regional agreements, it is to come back to some of the things that Norway is good at, that is, to see the relationship between state instruments and the municipal, county or regional instruments in order to develop the specificities and advantages of a region. Regional policy instruments have been severely cut these years, with the Right Party and the Advance Party in government. There is hardly anything left in adapted instruments to the reality that is local. We want to strengthen it by the fact that the instrument – state, municipalities and regions – has a dialogue on what is needed together. There may be differences in South West and North Norway, and that inequality can be achieved through such regional agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e304	In connection with our schooling, the teachers showed that they deserve trust — great trust. They converted the schools overnight, and many teachers stretched far because they know how important the community in school is to our kids. To date, the school day of teachers has been too marked by a need for documentation and reporting. I am pleased that the representative Gahr Støre has been a spokesperson for more time and trust in the school. For SV, reducing the scope of reporting and evidence at national level is an important part of our school policy. We will end the unfortunate ranking of schools and municipalities, and we believe that national samples must be sampled. The Labour Party says they're going to review the primary school quality assessment system, without saying anything about what's been the hot potato, the big political debate, the last 15 years: the national tests. Can the representative say what the Labour Party really wants with the national tests?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e313	The big potato here is that we lack teachers in very important positions. The lack is larger than the statistics show when we go into it thoroughly. For example, 50 pst. of special education is now done by good people who are not trained for it. It's an expression for a school that hasn't been followed up as it should, and we have to change that. We proposed an extra billion to the schools before the summer to give them the opportunity to get through the Corona era without going beyond the students. National tests are good in the sense that they give those who work at school a signal of where the school is and how it can be developed further. But we've gradually been given a kind of test hysteria, diversity, where there'll be more tests, more testing, almost for the sake of tests and testing. It goes beyond the teachers' time, and I think it also affects the students' peace of mind to be able to do the job of developing the skills, talents and knowledge they have. We want to clean that up, and we're going to do it in a proper way, get it thoroughly reviewed by professionals, so they hit a system that's better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e320	The Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions have fallen four years in a row. It has not happened by itself. In good cooperation on the civil side, the Left has had an impact on important measures: cheaper zero and low-emission cars, blending biofuels, elves, we have made it cheaper to make green choices in everyday life and have had a systematic focus on green growth in industrialisation. For the same four years that the discharge in Norway has gone down, emissions in Labour Party-led Oslo have risen, despite the fact that today's plural has ensured that the state now covers 66 pst. by the collective effort in the city, against NOK 0 when the representative Gahr Støre was last in government. The question is, how can the representative Gahr Støre now promise that Norway will achieve the climate goals with the Labour Party in the driver's seat, considering what they did and did – or rather, they did not – last time they were in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e329	It's a little pointless comparison to say the years before 2013 and the years after 2020. There have been quite a number of years apart, and the proposals we have made in the UK show that there is a policy under development: resources, technology, investment. Then it's also a rather strange problem to put Norway's largest city up against what's going on in the country as a whole. A review of what municipalities achieved by cutting greenhouse gas emissions before the previous municipal elections showed that where the Labour Party and the red-green governs, there is a larger cut. The important thing now is that it is a country and a community that really pays for Norway to achieve its climate goals – that is important, we are obliged to do so – but reach them in such a way that it also has international significance. As far as Oslo is concerned, it would have helped if we had been able to capture and store up at the combustion plant on Klemetsrud. We had then been able to cut the most important greenhouse gas emissions in Oslo City. It would have helped if we had a stronger and binding commitment to hydrogen, the circular economy and the other measures that are needed to cut emissions in Norway, but really also cut emissions globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e342	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e347	In the last twenty years, Norway has experienced great wealth growth. This growth has benefited us all. We have one of the world's richest middle classes, a good welfare society and a society where most people are doing well. Norway's been using oil wisely, we've been saving for the next generation. We have invested in knowledge, road and rail. This has made Norway more rusty in international competition. We live in a safe society with little differences, and there are people living in the whole country. That's the way we want it in the future, too, but we want to go on. Because even though we have good welfare services, we want better welfare services. Even if we have good schools, we'll make them better. And although many of us are doing very well today, we want the next generation to have even more possibilities. Then we have to evolve and make the necessary adjustments. If we stay standing, it's easy to stiffen – that's the way it is in the sky, and that's the way it is with politics as well. Much is going to change over the next few years. Globalisation takes new forms, digitisation creates new opportunities, urbanization attracts people to cities, we live longer, and we get older. In 10 years, there will be more older than children in Norway. There will be more rollers and fewer pushchairs, more sick places and fewer kindergartens, more expenditure and less cost sharing. If we do not intervene now, public expenditure will increase faster than revenue. We can't have it that way. Productivity has to rise, we have to create more and include more in the workplace. Anyone who can work should work. As we entered this year, many arrows pointed up into the Norwegian economy. Unemployment was low, and optimism was back in business after the oil crisis. Tourists came from all over the world to experience Norwegian nature and culture. Then came the coronary apanda. We were put on a big test here in the country, and in the last few months we've seen how important it is that the country has good preparedness. Norway shall be prepared to enable us to deal with crises when they occur. We can never know which crisis will hit us, and when. On the other hand, we can be able to deal with the unexpected. That's why we're doing, among other things. changes in the police. We need stronger disciplines, a more knowledge-driven police force and faster response time. I want to thank the parties at Stortinget for having shown the ability to stand together when it comes. Often we politicians hear that we argue too much, that we are more concerned with conflicts than what unites. When the pandemic hit Norway, we showed that we can come together when a crisis threatens the country. We are now participating with other nations in developing the vaccine against covid-19. And we're committed to sharing the vaccine when it comes. Cooperation and generosity are values we have to value. Cooperation and generosity build links and trust between people and countries. And just trust is crucial to dealing with an international pandemic. We also need to be happy that we have economic muscles. We need to be happy that we have the oil fund. The oil fund had never been created without an innovative oil industry and a business that has created values for all of us. It's about the offshore worker who gets into a helicopter on his way to the North Sea, about the skipper who runs the supply boat in all kinds of weather, about the truck driver who runs over the mountain at night, and about the founder who puts his savings on creating jobs. The oil fund is a pension fund, but it is also an insurance fund. We save an insurance for the day we need it. This year we have needed this insurance, but already now we have to prepare for the fact that we have to spend less money from the oil fund. The coronary antelope will pass. Then the Storting must also return to a normal state. The high level of monetary use of the year cannot continue. Before the summer we had control of the pandemic, but unemployment increased to the highest level since the war. People who had been working all their lives had to fill out a report card on Nav. Newly educated students went straight into the unemployment queue, rock bands, symphony orchestras and theatres had to cancel their concerts and performances. It's bad to sit at home whenever you want to go to work. There will be many questions. Having a job is more than having an income. It's about the coffee break with good colleagues, about the discussion in lunch, the opinions about the weekend's football matches in Tippeligaen and the Premier League – it's a lot to talk about there now. It's about getting used to their abilities and being seen. On Tuesday 22 September, 106 000 unemployed persons were registered in Norway, according to Nav figures. It's going to be 3.8 pst. by the labour force. I saw that unemployment was lowest in Northern Ireland and highest in Oslo. It's considerably fewer than in ours, but it's too many. However, positive developments in the labour market continue, but we are not in target. In the future, jobs must be our main priority. The whole of Norway is going back to work. If we're going to make it, we're going to have to make sure that private business grows. It's the private business that's been hit hardest by permits and redundancies. We cannot replace private jobs with public jobs. That is why I am concerned when I hear that the left-hand side wants the state to step up its economic development. The State shall facilitate the industry, but the State shall not engage in any economic activity. We're going to leave that job as far as possible to private people. I am worried when I hear that parts of the left side will notify us out of the EEA. What we need in the future is more cooperation between countries, not less. We need a large market to sell our goods to, not a small one. I'm worried about the left-hand side's resistance to private entrepreneurs and private businesses that create jobs in the health sector. Instead of calling them innovators, the left-hand side calls them profitors. Private actors represent an important and necessary complement to meet the needs of the future, and they require public intervention in competition. In the future, we need more private innovation, not less. I am also concerned when I hear that the Center Party will reverse much of the necessary conversion that has occurred in recent years. The center part creates a picture that everything was better before, but everything wasn't better before. Schools are better now than before, the roads are better now than before, health services are better now than before, the police have more knowledge now than before, and most people are better now than before. We do not solve the challenges of the future by dreaming back to the past. Tomorrow's jobs will be greener. The right believes that Norwegian businesses can play a leading role in creating these jobs. Climate change is one of the main challenges we face. It is therefore gratifying to record that emissions are going down. In February, Norway joined and notified a reinforced objective under the Paris Agreement. Norway is now taking a clear leading role in the world by cutting emissions and moving ahead in following up our international commitments. The climate crisis can be resolved and it must be resolved. The pandemic will affect Norway in the next few months as well, but the pandemic must not make us nearsighted. We must continue to invest in good infrastructure, we must continue to connect the housing and labour markets, we must continue to invest in knowledge and empowerment, and we must facilitate job creation. We have to keep cutting the emissions. Yes, we must continue the conversion of Norway, so that people can live good and meaningful lives whether they live in Oslo, in Trøgstad, in Vardø or in Hallingdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e375	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e380	The representative of Greece is talking about creating jobs. Today, a report was issued by the government itself on the impact of property taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises. You can't ask him if he is. There the professionals state that there is an increased wealth tax for the majority owners who will be able to help increase the employment of these companies. So there is no coverage for what the Right has claimed over many years, i.e. that cuts in wealth taxes give jobs, rather the opposite. It is the Workers' Party's recipe that is supported: it is safe jobs and investment in the workforce, combined with small differences between people, which is the most important recipe for our country to experience increased value creation and more jobs. So my question is quite simple: will the Right also admit that the wealth tax cuts of their billions over seven years have mainly gone to private consumption for the richest and not more jobs for the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e387	There are many reports of property taxes, but one of the main conclusions we have drawn in the Right is that having a criminal tax on Norwegian ownership is not a particularly good idea. That's why we work purposefully to reduce what's called taxes on working capital. We believe it is important that Norwegian owners can have the same terms as foreign owners, have the opportunity to invest in their own business and make sure that values are created here in the country. Then we agree that the differences should be reduced, that one should work for a balance through the tax system, but we still believe that taxing Norwegian owners, Norwegian ownership, especially, is not a good idea. We're going to continue to work because Norwegian entrepreneurs, Norwegian business owners, those who really go to the West, North Norway, all over the country, are on and create jobs, and then we're not going to treasure them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e394	The representative of Greece is right in saying that there are many reports, but this report has been ordered by the government itself. They themselves have asked for him, they have asked for this information. Now they've got him, they've got facts on the table, and the fact is that increasing wealth taxes could mean increasing employment and more jobs. It also documents what the Labour Party has said all the way, namely that wealth tax cuts are going to increase private consumption of those who have the most money, not more jobs for the country. After all, we are living at a time when it is important to use money in a targeted way to increase value creation and secure secure jobs for people. I have to remind the representative of Greece that it is the human capital that is the real working capital, it is the workers, that is, the workers, the human beings in these enterprises – and as this report has also been asked by the government, says that one should rather invest the money in. I almost have to ask why Right will allow owners to consume more in private by providing them with tax cuts, rather than investing in people by increasing taxes on wealth, as the report they themselves have ordered suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e402	If there's something this government has invested in, it's just human capital. We've been committed to empowerment. We have focused on continuing training, on continuing training of teachers. We've been focusing on conversion programs that allow workers and others out in business, in businesses, to increase their skills and create greater values. We are not going to have the Hadia Tajik theory tested to greatly increase the wealth tax under this government, but should – God forbid – take over the Workers' Party, I expect that industry will be tested the theory, that if you increase the wealth tax heavily, then Norwegian business will flourish. I doubt it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e409	I think the representative Trond Helleland was so nice in his speech about the need to create more and to facilitate nutrition. One consequence of the corona measures is that the border with Sweden is temporarily closed. This means that no border trade is taking place, which in turn has led to a boom in Norwegian goods trade. We see that many thousands of new jobs have been created, especially in the retail trade, but also the wine monopoly has been given a strong increase in sales. There is reason to check whether, like the Progress Party, the high charges on goods at frontiers cost Norway many thousands of jobs. The question for the representative of Greece is: Will the Right be with the Advance Party to reduce fees to Swedish level, or do we have to wait for programme decisions at the Right Country Meeting next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e418	It's nice to have the representative Limi on that side of the pulpit. We have been couples for a few years, and I feel that we still have a good relationship and should be able to talk about both border trade and taxes when we start the debate on the state budget. It is important to wait for programme decisions, too, because there is a lot of sense here, among other things. on taxes and frontier trade. If the Court’s national meeting follows that up, there will at least be opportunities to approach it. I am very pleased that the trade industry in Norway, after a tough start, has come through the corona well. The representative Limi forgot the sports business. They've really got a sales increase now. People are out in Norwegian nature, kissing and doing well. So it's, as we're familiar with, some frontier goods – and it'll always be exciting to take a trip across the border. But I agree with the representative Limi that we should work to reduce the gap between fees in Norway and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e425	It's a limit of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e430	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e435	An important competitive advantage for Norway is the ownership and management of our natural resources. Before the weekend we were told that a Norwegian investor has sold 580,000 dekar Norwegian forest to the rest of the world. Right County Leader in Trøndelag is well pleased. 580000 cover forests are more than 1000 times the average size of a forest property in Norway. Right lifted the price control for forest in 2017, and there is reason to believe that it was a very lucrative sale for him that sold abroad. The right also proposes in its programme to remove all the obligation of concession for forest treatment. Why does the Right think it's so good that German or Chinese interests buy up Norwegian natural resources, like forests?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e442	I was a little in doubt – it seemed that the forest was about to disappear abroad. It stays in Trøndelag, it stays where it is, and of course it has to be managed within a Norwegian legislation. It is possible that owners will get some benefits from not paying property taxes if they are non-resident owners. The centre party can help us to achieve a non-discriminatory treatment of Norwegian and foreign ownership. But in terms of forest management and forest property management – which is where they are – I'm not so much afraid or think it has so much to say if it's Norwegian or foreign owners. The important thing is that we have a forest management regime that allows us to process the timber so that we get more out of it, as Borregaard has done for many years. Here I believe we all have a common responsibility to contribute to the forest being used in the green shift, and that we can get more out of the amazing resource it is. Ownership is of course important, but it is not crucial in the case of forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e447	Crisis time can lead to increased disparities if we do not face the consequences of the crisis with a fair policy. There has been a lot of talk about hard work lately, and should work, everyone must carry according to ability and get help as needed. However, some 200 000 people are still unemployed, while the stock exchanges are essentially going down. Nevertheless, the government parties choose to vote against the requirement that crisis support cannot be taken into account in dividends, management salaries and bonuses. They also lower the demand for people not to be able to resign while receiving crisis support. A new record has already been set in billionaires this year, and a new SSB report shows that the richest pay a smaller share of taxes than ordinary people. But the Right does not say it is satisfied: now they are also going to choose to remove the property tax completely. That is why I have to ask: is it really an objective of the Right's crisis policy to stop the growing differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e452	This government is not working on removing the property tax, but we are working on reducing the tax on working capital. It is important to stimulate Norwegian ownership and to obtain investment in enterprises. I believe that in the Corona era we have been good here in Stortingen to find solutions that both help those who have extra needs for a difficult time and that stimulate business. We do not want a business that is basted and bound by rules adopted here on the Storting in a discussion about symbols? The important thing is that there are opportunities to create values. I referred in my speech to the fact that unemployment has fallen sharply – of course – from the enormously high level it was at when the Korona crisis came. It's been falling down a week after August. I hope it keeps doing that, so that we get people back to work and can include more and create more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e461	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e466	It's hard times. Unemployment is high. Many jobs are exposed, and many now experience their life’s works as being really threatened – so they can end up. Then I have to say that I think it is a little strange with many repeating messages from different parts of the government parties that we are now on our way out of the crisis. We heard the last time the representative of Greece said that now is the time to reduce the use of money. There are many good reasons for going through public money critically, but then the government should also look at what is currently defined as sacred cows, for example. That you put 1 of the pst first. of GNI for assistance, without going through the same critical assessment as anything else. If at one point we're going to be happy that we have an oil fund, it's just now. It's in times of crisis that we're going to have the opportunity to spend a little extra money to relieve the very unfortunate results that this pandemic has given us. Nothing would have been better than if the government parties were right that we were now on our way out of the crisis, but there is very little to suggest it. All the businesses I talk to when I travel around this country, tell pretty tough stories, about the fear that the companies will go over the edge, and that the package of measures that the government has come with, don't hit well enough. You can't take a cross-section of the businesses that are almost completely unaffected by this crisis, look them up against the companies that are experiencing major problems, and then say that if we take an average, it's a sign that we're now on our way out of this crisis. I totally disagree. Therefore, on behalf of the Advance Party, I have great expectations of the state budget that the government will present in a few days' time. I can at least mention some of the things the Progress Party has expectations of coming there. Of course, we have expectations of greatly improved framework conditions for Norwegian business by reducing taxes and charges. We have expectations of less bureaucracy. We have expectations that we will now safeguard the interests of our citizens through good services and through safe jobs. We have expectations that we will apply a hand bill to the country's pensioners, who have experienced a significant decrease in purchasing power over the last few years as a result of wage settlements. Of course, we also have expectations that something will be done about the border trade. I have visited companies around this country that are now experiencing strong growth in the trade in goods. I've been talking to people who've got a job for the first time in many years. They are very happy about it, but of course they are worried because that job is temporary. Think so well if we could make all these thousands of temporary jobs firm by reducing the difference in fees between Sweden and Norway! It would have been a good contribution, and also helped to increase the number of jobs in the trade in goods, which are very often jobs for non-skilled people. At a time when the private sector is struggling the most, I think it is also quite obvious for more and more people where growth must come in the future. We have now entered a time when government must know its visit time and reduce red tape and not least the waste of tax money. Today, the Progress Party is promoting a wide range of proposals that are just about safeguarding the interests of its citizens. It's about no one under the age of 50 being forced to live in a nursing home against his own will. It is simply unworthy that this is happening in Norway in 2020. We propose to do something about the underregulation of the pension for the country's pensioners. We propose to do something about the fees in the municipal sector, which may not be said to be entirely on the principle of self-sufficiency. We are promoting proposals for various reviews of state subsidies, and we are asking the government for a comprehensive review of Norwegian aid funds. It can't be that you're so concerned with the goal of 1 pst. of GNI that you are not concerned about what this money is going to do. A critical review of this must be in place, and of course we expect to support that proposal in the Stortinget. Why do you have to have this kind of critical review? Well, simply because it's always the taxpayers who get the bill, and it's also the ones who are going to be left with the bill if we get a government change after the election. It's a bouquet of parties that, in between, conduct some kind of NM in tax austerity. That's why there's reason to be a little worried when you hear the post of the representative Gahr Støre, who opened today talking about this state that's going to stand up for everything and everyone all the time. But who is it now? It's the taxpayers. So once again, we get a very clear message that these are parties that individually want to increase the overall tax burden in Norway and then spend considerable amounts on expensive reforms. It's a calculation that at least isn't going to go up for the wallets of people most and business. That is why there is every reason to worry about what could be the consequences of worsening private sector framework conditions if we get a shift after the elections. I also find it a little strange that the Prime Minister said this weekend to NTB that she could imagine seeking a second majority in the budget. I see the Prime Minister shaking his head. I expect that in that case someone from the government or government parties will clarify during this debate, because I read the NTB interview with great interest. In that case, it is tempting to ask if it is such that the objective of being in government is more important than what kind of policy is pursued. I believe, at least on behalf of the Progress Party, that better solutions are being provided for taxpayers, for most people, by listening to the recordings and suggestions that the Progress Party is now making. Anyway, we're going to meet an exciting harvest. I can assure you that the negotiations on the state budget, which I have seen the Prime Minister wanting to happen – at least first – with the Progress Party, will not be a simple operation. Of course, we are going to complete our demands, but I can assure you that it is about reducing the charge on goods exposed to border trade, that it is about securing people's everyday lives and doing something for the elderly who have experienced a severe deterioration in their situation as a result of the coronary apathy. We can't have it that way. We need to do something for all those who experience exposure to treatment and surgery at their hospitals because all the resources have been primarily tied up in corona-related things. It is understandable, but at the same time alarming that health cows are now growing and that waiting times are increasing as a result of that priority. Of course, we have expectations that we will be given a hand bill to the country's pensioners. There are over one million people who experience that the situation has deteriorated, and that is not a situation that can persist, especially because they experience negative purchasing power developments in a situation of low pay settlement. It is possible to understand this, but it is not possible to understand that there is nothing to do with a lack of the assumptions underlying the adoption of the pension reform in its time. I'm assuming that multiple parties should come to a recognition of that, and that we're going to have to do something about it. With that, I take up proposal No. 70, which the Progress Party has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e495	The representative, Siv Jensen, then mentioned the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e502	We've now heard a 10-minute long post in the main hall that doesn't mention a single word about the growing differences in our country, which we almost every day get new reports that are bigger than we thought. Last year there was a record increase in the number of new billionaires in Norway, and the richest could be as much as twice as rich as we thought, at the expense of everyone else. The SSB showed a few weeks ago that the richest now pay less taxes on their income than nurses and teachers. The representative Jensen did not mention all of this in his post. That is very understandable, because as a former finance minister for six and a half years, she is responsible for the tax system we have today, which ensures that those with large revenues pay less taxes than ordinary people. My question to the representative Jensen is whether she is satisfied with a tax system where at the top they pay less tax than ordinary people, and where they leave, and that of course this increases the differences in Norway year after year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e509	I understand that the line was written before I kept my post. The representative may not have heard after I talked about how it was important to take action to improve everyday life for people who have difficulties in Norway. It is precisely about implementing measures that help to reduce differences. I also talked about taxes, but unlike the Workers' Party, the Advance Party is committed to reducing tax and tax burden in this country. It shall be a pleasure to see any forthcoming negotiations between the Workers' Party and their potential partners, which in their alternative budgets have an NM in tax consolidations between them, starting at 10 billion. kr and up to 40 br. kr in one year only. Is there anyone who thinks that it creates growth and value creation in the private sector, that it creates more jobs? No, I don't think so. I rather believe on the contrary that we must have a competitive tax system and keep tax and tax pressures as low as possible in order to invest in businesses and jobs, and in order for most people to retain more of their wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e514	If I had written this line before the representative Jensen's posts, I would have done it a little bit more neatly than my own illegible handwriting on a little sheet. But anyway, the representative is afraid that a new majority in the Storting will lead to a different tax regime. Yes, it will. The Workers' Party wants ordinary people to pay less taxes on their income, and people with high incomes and large assets to pay a little more taxes than today. But the representative Jensen did not answer my question – whether she is satisfied with the tax system we have in Norway today, where they are moving from the top, and those with the highest income pay less taxes than teachers and nurses. Is this a good tax policy and a good tax arrangement for the party that says they're for the most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e519	The question was whether I am satisfied with the tax system that we have today. No, I'm not. Had it been up to the Advance Party, we would have significantly reduced the tax and tax burden more than we could do in the years we were in government. The Progress Party is a party that wants to reduce tax and tax burden, not tighten it up. It is a perfectly honest matter that the Workers' Party is committed in every context to tightening up taxes and charges for both ordinary people and owners of capital, businesses. But I think we have to be able to have more thoughts in our head at once when we're designing a tax system. So it's like someone has to invest in the companies that are going to employ people and get unemployment down. Do you really think there will be more investment in more jobs in Norway by knocking into the tax system, which the Labour Party is now calling for? I don't think so. Rather, I believe on the contrary that this could lead to more enterprises going to an end, and that unemployment thus remains. It will be quite hollow for the Workers’ Party – to contribute to high levels of unemployment because they are concerned with symbolism policies in increasing taxes on capital owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e524	The representative Jensen spoke in his contribution on taxes and charges. The fasitant after the year of the Progress Party in government and as a supporting party is that the fees in Norway have increased. A professional group that is now burdened with the contribution of the Progress Party is its fishermen. Although fish are environmentally friendly food, there is an increase in CO2 for fishermen. A compensation scheme is in place. It has two features: it's temporary, and no one has seen anything about it yet. Another suggestion is that one has introduced 100 million. kr i fee on fishing – a pure fiscal fee. One would think that Jensen believed that the fiscal fee was a fee on fish. So it's not. My question is therefore: why my Advancement Party that it is important to increase the tax burden on fishermen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e536	I am very pleased that the Central Party seems to agree more and more with the Advance Party that the tax pressure in this country is going down. But what I'm looking forward to is the cross-section of the Central Party's tax and tax arrangements and the parties with which the Central Party must cooperate if there is to be another majority in the country after the election next year. I am delighted to see how the Central Party believes they should be able to make up all their suggestions with which they travel country and beach around, with the Workers' Party, SV, the Green and Red Environmental Party. It's not going to go up, and it's going to be an unpleasant stomach spot for the Center Party if you wake up to that reality after the election next year. I think I'll be careful to say that. I am pleased to look at the cross-section of the content of the tax and tax settlements between the Centre Party and the parties with which the Centre Party intends to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e543	I thank you for your answer. One sees, for example: That is the 100-million-dollar proposal. kr in an own excise duty on fishing appeared, the Party of Progress was eager to do so, together with the Government Party. It was they who decided this in Stortinget. The Labour Party and the Centre Party – I believe even SV – were critical of introducing this fee. So it's not like the Progress Party can claim to be a batch of cuts in fees. The fasitator is that the Progress Party increases the charges in the area by area. I would like to get an answer as to what the Progress Party wants to do with imposing full CO 2 tax on the country's fishermen first and then an own excise duty of 100 million. kr. What is one that will achieve? Is it that the objective of being a support party is more important than what policies are pursued?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e553	So it was possible to find one tax relief like the United Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. That's great. But you have to look at the whole of the scheme that these parties present. It is not that alternative budgets are created with net relief, either in fiscal policy or tax policy. There are significant intensifications, in the billions class. So the centre party is going to cooperate with lots of people who aim to increase the tax and tax burden by between 10 and 40 billion. kr. That's the reality. The sooner the Central Party starts to respond to it, the sooner we get to know at least what direction one believes it is possible to adopt in tax policy. What I can say is that in the cooperation we had while in government, the total tax burden in Norway went down, not up. So I just said that our ambitions, the ambitions of the Advance Party, are significantly greater than that. We want to continue to reduce the tax and tax burden and will make use of that opportunity when we sit at the negotiating table with the government parties this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e562	I had hoped that this debate would focus on the really big issues facing society, and also that the contribution to the representative Jensen had been about it – but no. What major existential questions do we face? What threats do we face? We have two UN panels that have come with the index finger. They have come to us with serious warnings that we need to seize. One is, of course, the natural panel. The second is the climate panel. I cannot, with my best will, no matter what magnifying glass, look at the areas in which the Advance Party has ever taken these big questions into consideration. When they were involved in things when they were in government, it seemed that it was despite the Progress Party and not because of the Advance Party when there were any decisions that benefited the climate emissions. Can the representative comment on why the Norwegian population is left with the view that the Progress Party is never offensive in these two questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e567	I think I should remind the representative Nävra that in the years of the Progress Party in government, greenhouse gas emissions went down. It's a slightly different story to tell than the SV itself can tell from their eight years in government. Then the question is, what approach is there to different climate-related proposals? Our approach to this is very simple: we have to look at the price tag. We have to think about how much emission reductions you get for each of the heads you put in. It is the taxpayers who have to pay this bill. We believe that some of these climate measures need to be carefully reviewed in order to have cost-benefit calculations of all of them, so that we get as much back for the money we spend. The Progress Party is too good for climate action, but we are not to waste money on all measures that can only be put on a climate label. Asking critical questions about this as we do in all other areas, when our main task is to manage taxpayers' money, we will continue to do so. That should also start with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e577	The Left has cooperated with the Progress Party both on budgets and on many other issues in almost two major periods of time. This is how, as the representative Jensen says, greenhouse gas emissions have fallen in the last four years. Yeah, actually, they've gone down to six of the last seven years. It's on the civil side that we've reached agreement on just the sale of a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. We have stuck to the electric car benefits, and we have also reached an agreement on common climate goals with the EU. Then I notice that in the post of the representative Jensen she mentions nothing about what is the biggest problems the world is facing. It's nature, and it's climate. Then my question is: is it still this way, despite what we have done, that the Progress Party as a party does not recognise man-made climate change as a problem, nor does the representative see that climate action is what is currently driving industrial development? We look at it in the area by area: green shipping and now also carbon capture and storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e584	I don't think Ola Elvestuen heard my previous answer when he was able to ask that question. Of course, the Progress Party is committed to ensuring the climate measures that have a good impact on the money you put in. But I believe that Ola Elvestuen is also wise to take some diet-benefit calculations of some of the measures we spend a lot of money on the state budget. So I want to say that when we're in the middle of a pandemic that has significant and dramatic consequences for ordinary people who have lost their jobs, for companies that risk going over the edge, I think that quite a lot of people feel that there are other issues that at the moment appear to be more demanding. That's why I spent my time in this throne debate on it, and that's what we're going to spend our time on in the next budget negotiations. We have to solve the challenges for people in everyday life, for our businesses, which means that we can get growth and not higher unemployment, which allows more people to get to work, not fewer, secure income for ordinary people, including the pensioners. I think there are major and important issues that we need to discuss during a chronology debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e591	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e596	With the previous speaker a moment got a feeling that we were far inside a budget debate about a budget nobody knows yet. This is, of course, a persuasion debate, which is about the parliamentary situation, not least between the government and its support party, the Progress Party. But as a representative of an opposition party, I have to say that there will certainly be quite interesting budgetary discussions, based on the post that was just held. This is the last persuasion debate before the elections next year, the last persuasion debate before a big shot. Over seven years, the Right-Leader Government has now centralised, closed down services and pursued policies that have provided both district uprisings, coastal uprisings and poorer local public services. However, the talk of the throne was free from any mention of anything that might resemble district policy. I think Prime Minister Erna Solberg and the government are now making every effort to ensure that the voters have forgotten questions about centralisation and district uprisings towards the election day of 2021. The extraordinary situation in the last six months has in many ways shifted the focus away from the government's actual project, namely the political content of the seven-year-old agreement between the Right and the Advance Party. Now the government is probably trying to steer the launch into smoldering waters. Now, right-wing people travel around saying that there has been no district uprising. And they're trying to reduce the importance of this and really of all the discussions about districts, to talk about the past. The election in 2021 is about political direction and direction. What this government calls reform has, in many respects, been a pure centralisation and a desire for large units, without any justification for how it should provide better quality and content. The right has focused on the systems, not on humans. It creates a society with greater differences and amplification. The government has used both pressure and coercion against municipalities and counties in order to obtain mergers that are neither in the hands of the people nor in the hands of the population. Two senseless giants remain as a reminder of it: Troms and Finnmark and Viken – Troms and Finnmark, which are larger than a number of European countries, and the Viking, who have a population of 1.2 million and go from Hallingskarvet to Halden. Both states are inconsistency. The right has become so concerned with regions that they have forgotten the people who live in them. The government has also pushed forward a police reform that means that a number of communities – both urban and rural – have lost their neighbourhood police. It's like the recently retired police officer Geir Tveit of the Greenland Police Chamber said: ‘But every day our competent police force is prevented from carrying out the work for which they are dedicated, because the department is more centralised and top-notch.’ Over seven years, the same philosophy of centralisation has been applied to both emergency hospitals and food supply, to the university and higher education sectors and to local courts, district courts. In some places they are laid down, in others the offer is emptied slowly, but safely for management and content. They are impoverished, and the hope of the Right Party and the Advance Party is enough for them to gradually “mature” for closure. Throughout this seven-year period, the government has pursued a policy by means of both small and large-scale interventions that have made life difficult for Norwegian districts and have benefited the large units and communities. District policy instruments that contributed to activity and investment in many municipalities have been deleted. Agricultural concession limits have increased and contribute to greater use. At the same time, the import quotas are far-reaching. In fisheries the government's policy has now led to a division within the fisheries that we have not seen since the Trollfjords Battle in 1890. State jobs have been withdrawn from the districts by the closure of a number of offices — tax offices, Nav offices and other functions. The government seems to be working out of some sort of hypothesis that says that the small units and everyone who lives out there somewhere are too expensive to operate. They should preferably move. Maintaining services and jobs costs too much. It is too expensive to maintain infrastructure, to maintain power cables and to add fiber to houses that are scattered and far away from the center. The Center Party won't think of it that way. Equality and trust in this society mean that we need to see and recognise the challenges in this country no matter what part of the country it is about. We have to believe in Norway at all. Former Right-State Council Victor Norman had an interesting introduction to a District Political Conference that I attended last week. He thought that the housing pattern was a common good we couldn't afford to lose, and that there was a need for a new and powerful district policy. The centre party believes that new tools are needed in the area of district policy. Above all, there is a need to recognise that rural policy cannot be resolved by means of entirely general and neutral instruments. It has to be solved with targeted bets. That is why the Senterpartie proposes inter alia: rural growth agreements – a long-term commitment to those municipalities that face the main industrial challenges. That is why we are proposing a reduction in corporate taxes in the districts. That's why we're proposing broadband, not 92 pst. by the population and not to 95 pst. by the population, but to the total population. The coronary apnea has been imprinting on us for the past six months. In the beginning, the parties at Stortinget made a great effort to reach common solutions to many of the challenges. It was an important work – both in the case of legislation, in the case of health, and in the case of the economy. Today, however, that period is over. Now the government chooses to talk to its support party, the Progress Party, rather than to talk to all the political parties. Then it is all the more important that the processes are characterised by openness. The centre party is concerned that the Commission which is now to evaluate the implementation of the Corona situation will carry out its work in sufficient transparency, i.e. in full transparency. When the pandemic broke out, the government was poorly prepared for health equipment, and the municipalities were given priority over the first few months. Then it is a little sad that the message that came last week that the municipalities will no longer receive help from the national emergency storage facility and have to build their own stores for equipment comes at the time it is doing. The government must not fail its own emergency responsibilities in the middle of the pandemic. They must not neglect their own coordinating role. It is clear that transferring this responsibility to municipalities can become a financial burden that goes beyond other services, which are growing up and older. The centre party is concerned about the government's attitude towards Municipality-Norway, about the municipalities that are in and do a great job of protecting their citizens, with testing, with infection tracking and with health care. Nor does it improve when the Minister of Health makes statements about financial management in the municipalities that are perceived as a bit arrogant. In any case, there is evidence that the government has a way of listening to the local government sector, which has incurred considerable additional costs in relation to the whole situation of the corona. I want to mention one little thing: the centre party is concerned about the strict rules of the elderly and the disabled have been subjected to the last half of the year – holding back visits from the nearest, refusing relatives to come in to help their neighbors with the most basic things. There are many examples of this being practiced unwisely. In the future, we need to be better able to balance the objectives of good protection against the need for contact with friends and family. Isolation and solitude are serious. Today, therefore, the Centre Party is promoting a proposal – because we believe it is necessary – to better monitor the authorities’ management of visitor restrictions and stoppages. It's a field where all sides have to come forward, so that we can learn from it for the future. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e631	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e638	It's always interesting to right Marit Arnstad's analyses in such debates, and they show that the Central Party and the Labour Party are united about the need for a new government that sees and understands Norway as a whole and the need to reverse the centralising right-wing policy. But in order to achieve a fairer social and geographical distribution, we need to address the growing differences between people in Norway, and this is more than just district policy. We must prevent those who have the most of them from getting more and more – when it is that they get less and less. And too often I thought it was from the Center Party on such questions. The impression is that there is no priority. Maybe it's because the differences between people are the most obvious in our cities. I want to give Marit Arnstad the opportunity to correct that impression and ask: What are the most important forms of distribution in the policy of the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e643	Firstly, I agree and believe that the Central Party and the Labour Party have a lot to work together on both the issue of reducing disparities, and in terms of district policy and resistance to centralisation. I also think the representative Gahr Støre's contribution was a good estimate for that. The centre party may talk more about district policy in some of its articles than about differences, but it is because there are so few others talking about district policy. Someone actually has to get up and take that fight. Then it's the Center Party that has done it, because there have been throne debates here in the Chamber over the last seven years where no party has talked about district policy. The Labour Party did so today, and it was good, but there have also been contributions earlier that have been almost chemically free of rural policies by the Workers' Party. So you see that someone has to take that fight, and that's what the Center Party has to do. That said, that doesn't mean that we're not concerned with the differences and getting balanced differences. We believe that we should have a tax system that balances differences. We believe that we should not increase the fees in such a way that it affects those who have the lowest income and have at least already, as we have seen that the Right Party and the Advance Party, for example. has done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e652	First, there were many themes that were not affected in this year’s census. That's because it was shorter, and it was for reasons that I'm absolutely sure Arnstad's representative is able to understand, rather than knock political coins on it. All the parties in this room are working on the program, and when I read the program of the Center Party on parts of the points they were working on, there was a point that I noticed. In order to ensure that Schengen cooperation is a matter for Norway to withdraw as soon as possible and to introduce a national border and passport control as a substitute, this position now seems less clear. The two options sent out are not just to leave Schengen or stay, either to sign out and introduce border control or to strengthen cooperation between Schengen countries to combat crime. What new reflections is the Central Party now taking place, now that it is obviously beginning to understand that international challenges are best addressed through international cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e659	I understand that one from the Right reads our software well – it wasn't a full program, it wasn't, it was an early draft that was sent out to an additional hearing. We haven't presented our software yet, we're going to do it this week. Then the representative Wang Soleim will see what we are saying about Schengen, and things may have come up during the hearing, which means that we have also made changes there, for any draft programme must address what comes through the consultation round. What we have said is that we do not want Norwegian participation in Schengen, but at the same time we see that there is some dialogue between the EU and the United Kingdom about the future of the United Kingdom's relationship with Schengen, and that is enough work that might be interesting for Norway at least to look at and perhaps have a more thorough review of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e666	Interestingly, an additional consultation on Schengen cooperation is needed. That means, as I can see, that the bona fide attitude to unilateral national solutions is now on the way to being abandoned. Another point of the Central Party's programme design is whether or not to continue the road company Nye Weier. So it's a way of building a road that saves the state for tens of billions of dollars, and that also builds road projects more coherently and in a shorter time. In its alternatives to the party organisation, the Committee either proposes to keep New Roads or to return all projects back to the State Roads Agency, i.e. the sector from which the projects were moved, precisely to provide the new tools with a development company that New Roads can use to reduce both costs and time use. Is the representative of Arnstad concerned about the impact of cost and time use on road construction if the party does not end up with what they have already ended up on before, namely keeping New Roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e675	I don't know what the program process is in the Right, but the program process in the Center Party is a very lively debate. It is a party democracy that expresses itself widely about many things in several rounds. That means that the different software designs are going to evolve on the basis of what has been experienced by the partisan democracy and what one in a way is getting from hearings. Something else I think would be disrespectful of the big, important and lively debate one should have. Also with regard to the point of Nye Veier, I think the representative should wait for the final draft of the programme from the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e681	The Central Party does not like to have questions about whether it is prepared to cooperate with the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party after the elections next year. But after all the sunmarks, you have to. SV shall increase the tax and tax burden by more than 20 billion. kr. The Green Party, which is mostly for the people of Europe, will increase taxes and taxes by 39 billion. NOK, and the fuel and diesel tax will be up by NOK 5, which will sweat hard, especially in the districts, where people depend on the car. Flying will be so expensive that ordinary people can barely afford to travel on tour, and the Communist Party Red will have an increase of 40 billion. kr. In this company, the Workers' Party itself is moderate. The oil industry, which brings huge incomes to the country, is going to put all of these down. Now the Center Party has probably winged away. Will the Central Party guarantee that they will not cooperate with the SV, the Green Party or the Red Party after the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e688	I'm so surprised that the Progress Party is so concerned with games and tactics that they here and now, based on hypothesis a year before the election, as well as should have decided what the election result is, and then in a way have a game debate and a tactical debate based on it. I think that's nice. I believe that the debate of the throne is an excellent place to discuss political matters, more than to discuss the political game. I could have mentioned that in four years we have had four different versions of civil government, three with the Advance Party and one without. I could mention that the leader of the Left has now invited the Greens into possible future civil cooperation. But it's so pointless, because I think we should discuss the issues and the political basis – I think that's what people expect from us – more than discussing games and tactics.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e693	One of the most spectacular things that has happened in Norwegian politics in the last few days is Jan Bøhler's transition from the Workers' Party to the Center Party. Especially as politicians in Oslo, we are curious about what this involves, and what policy the Central Party will now lead in Oslo. Does this mean that the Central Party will be more committed to urban policy and less to district issues? It's important for us to know what comes out there even during the election campaign. With regard to Oslo, the Center Party's programme contains points about hospitals, roads, transport and churches. It also opens up so that the districts can be converted into municipalities, and there is even an idea that Oslo and Akershus should be merged. There is nothing on what Jan Bøhler is concerned about, such as living conditions challenges, poverty and crime. It's unclear what kind of policy the Center Party is going to go to elections on in Oslo. Will it be the Central Party's policy, the Labour Party's policy, or Jan Bøhler's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e704	No, it's not so unclear, this. After all, any party's candidates go to the elections to the programme adopted by a party. This is the case in SV, and it is the case in the Centre Party. This will also be the case in the Centre Party – that the representatives of the Centre Party will vote on the programme of the Centre Party, which will be adopted at the Central Party national meeting. It is really quite simple, this with party democracy. What the Center Party has said in the slightly special situation we're in now, is that Bohemia has today been elected to another party program, and out of respect for the voters who have elected him in there, he should be allowed to stand free in the eight months that remain of this period, so that he can fulfill the promises he has given his voters in that election program. I think that's the only reasonable way to do that in the eight months ahead of the election, because one can in some way not demand that someone vote against what the voters have chosen. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e711	Climate change is the biggest problem we have to solve in Norway and the rest of the world, alongside today's pandemic. One of the measures that really work and that have a high priority in today’s government is urban growth agreements – and not only in the government parties, but also in the cities that have these agreements, and not least in the cities that want it. They're in line. I mention: Tromsø, Sarpsborg, Fredrikstad, Kristiansand, Drammen, Grenlands towns, Vestfold towns, Ålesund, Haugesund and Bodø. Enthusiasm is great, and policies are created from local initiatives. Why doesn't the Central Party at Stortinget have this enthusiasm?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e718	Urban growth agreements are an important element of climate action. There's no doubt about it. Reducing, for example: traffic and urban traffic challenges are important. Getting good collective services in cities is important. Then one should be betting on electrification into Trondheim, and not hydrogen trains, which are going to emit more CO 2 than today's diesel train, into the area that the representative Gunnes and I come from. At the same time, I believe that these kind of growth agreements, when they become as extensive as they are now, also have to be subject to a debate: what is actually working and not? What is it that actually has a climate effect and not? That debate is almost absent from some of the parties because one by definition is so in favour of urban growth agreements that one is unable to problem or discuss different aspects of the agreements or the way they develop. I think it makes sense, when so much money is spent on urban growth agreements as it is today, that one also has a fundamental debate on the content of some of the agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e730	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e735	The time we live in, and the years we're going into, is marked by two major crises. One is the pandemic and the economic crisis it has triggered. The second is the climate and environmental crisis. That means that what we're going to do this big year, what we're going to decide about in the elections next year, is more serious than what I can remember at least that Norwegian policy has been before, and that there is a great need for a policy of hope and change. If we're going to be able to solve these two crises, we have to do what we've done in Norway many times before, that's to run a policy that's for the many and not for the few, where it's not the crooked self-interests of them with the most money and power from before that's going to decide, but the interests of ordinary people. That's how we've done it in crucial choices in this country. That's how we got a working life where people weren't supposed to stand in the hand, but be protected by a strong law and strong trade unions – a working life for the many and not for the few. That's how we got a tax system in which those with the widest shoulders would bear the heaviest burdens, and where one would not only bring down the differences, but also finance a welfare state that would provide a safety net for all of us, but also a trampoline to put on for the people, so that not only the richest children, but everyone's children, would have the opportunity to use their abilities and live their dreams – a tax system for the many and not for the few. That's how we got an industrial policy that secured the hydropower and oil for the people instead of privatising the resources – an industrial policy for the many and not for the few. In short, this country has never been built with the invisible hand of the market; it is built on strong communities and small differences. Now we have to do the same thing again. But that's not how this government meets the time of crisis. On the contrary, we have seen an inadequacy in measures against unemployment, and we have seen a lack of social demands. Where are the requirements that those who receive State aid not be able to at the same time put money into tax havens or pay dividends to owners? Where are the demands that those who receive money from the state should not quit people or move to unemployment? Instead, we see pointless tax cuts, whether they are cut in taxes on wealth or cut to oil companies. In the context of the climate crisis, we have received a tax package that guarantees only the shareholders of oil companies, not work and climate change. The government still doesn't have a plan for the transition we're going to go through, or for how we're going to achieve the climate goals in 2030. Still, there is no recognition that we cannot look for more oil when the world has already found more fossil energy than we can burn, if we are to avoid catastrophic global warming. There have been some recent reports on which it is necessary to spend little time. One is the one from the Statistical Central Bureau that shows us the truth about Difference Norway – how great the inequality in power and wealth in this country actually is. It shows that what SV has said for years about the deep societal problem we have with increasing inequality is true. The 370 richest individuals in Norway confiscate 6 pst. of all income, it says in that report. The richest prom of the country's population pays between 9 pst. and 17 pst. in taxes, while ordinary workers pay a lot, much more. The rich leave, and that is the main reason why the inequality of power and wealth is increasing in Norway. It's a social problem when power and money come together on fewer hands than before. Then we have today's report, ordered by the government, which shows that there is no lower but increased wealth tax that can provide more jobs – just after the Right has decided that it is a big and important goal to eliminate the entire wealth tax. This shows that the largest government party allows its tax policy to be governed by the emotional life of billions rather than by the real interests of business. We don't need billionaires, we need billions to work and welfare. Over the years of blue government, we have seen a trend in which many ordinary workers experience stagnation in their incomes, looking up to what is happening at the top of society. Many of the worst paid in Norway have not had real wage growth for years. The pensioners now see another year with a minus in purchasing power, which, of course, hit the hardest those who are older and already have low pensions. The bill for tax cuts in the blue years has also largely been sent to many of those who have the least — disabled, single parents, people on redundancy pay, burns, amputees, children with glasses — all the different support schemes that this government has cut into. Today, SV proposes that the Storting should ask the government to do something they have never done, namely examine the consequences for those affected by these cuts. That's the least we can ask for. I believe that the investigation – if the Stortinget decides to carry it out – will show that these cuts should be reversed, one at a time, for a dollar. SV also proposes to declare the climate crisis a national emergency. It will be to underline the seriousness with which we have to deal with climate policy in the future. Some representatives from Stortinget have recently been to Svalbard. I was there with the Foreign and Defence Committee. The temperature increase in that part of our country has been 5.5 degrees since 1990. There we see – more clearly than anywhere else in our country – what the consequences of the climate crisis are and will be: ecosystems in imbalance, local community conditions are drastically changed. Nevertheless, climate policy in this country is still random and half-hearted. Now we need a plan to achieve the climate targets in 2030 and a plan to make us less dependent on oil. Around the country, the enterprise is waiting for the enterprise on the plan and for the measures to ensure that there are zero-emission solutions that pay off the measures to ensure the success of the new ideas. What we are facing is a cleansing of the active food and industrial policy, with the state and the community as an engine and with market liberalism on the scrappowder of history. Norway needs a green new deal, where we need to cut emissions, build the country and share goods and burdens – cut, build and share. It is common rather than market and privatisation that is now modern. Then we should also see a proper boost for the local economy this autumn. We should see a stop in the privatisation policy, whether it is about the suckers that welfare professionals have gotten into the state treasury through the release of commercialisation in the field of child protection, or it is about the great opportunity to take advantage of kindergartens and care for the elderly. It should mean stopping the privatisation of the railway and stopping the development where fishing resources are collected on fewer hands than before. Finally, one of the debates Stortinget has to take this autumn is how we are going to deal with the democratic anchoring and the need for open debate about the necessary measures against the pandemic. To date, the government has had the power to act alone and to adopt very dramatic interventions in the freedoms and rights of its citizens – the suppression of all parts of our society. It was necessary to do so in ours, it had broad political support, but SV has always said that we have a law that is adapted to short-term but not long-term crises. I would therefore like to challenge the Storting to a debate on the proposal SV has promoted to withdraw the government's powers, so that new corona measures must be anchored in the Storting in a completely different way. We promise a clear opposition in the fall. SV is the Red-Green People's Party in Norwegian politics. Our project is a red-green government – one that works for the many, not for the few. With that, I take up SV's proposal No. 71-87.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e771	The representative Audun Lighthouse has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e778	The light slide spoke for a long time and warmly about the need for environmental action and the need for distribution. However, in many countries, including Norway, we have seen that a good part of the environmental measures being introduced affects most people. This is why there has also been a great deal of resistance to some taxes that may be important from an environmental point of view, but which do not come into play. That's why we got a big uprising in France, the yellow vests, and we also see that kind of discussion in Norway. And we see discussion when it comes to the future of the oil industry, because people are afraid to lose their jobs. So my question to the Lighthouse is how we get into a distribution policy that helps most people get involved in the big shift we need in environmental policy, and what dilemmas he sees. Because this isn't just easy. Can the Lightbaking say anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e784	More than I would like to. I think this is a very central question, because solving the climate crisis won't be possible if we don't do it in a fair way. That's just how we can make people upset. That's why I think it's a big mistake to think that you can combine green climate policy with a blue economic policy. Firstly, in order to develop the technology and solutions we need in the future, we are dependent on putting the market out of play in important areas. It's just the opposite of a free market that's going to give us these solutions. Secondly, we want where we need to, for example. increase the price of pollution, have social measures that ensure that the burden of pollution is not unfairly distributed. That's why SV has proposed what we call a green people's bonus, which means that in our alternative state budgets, we lower the tax on work for ordinary people with at least as much or more as the environmental taxes increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e793	The representative Lysbakken was a little inside the scrapper of history in his post, and it's clear that when socialists talk about it, you have to listen – that's something they have firsthand experience with. I'm going to ask about the climate, which he was also inside. On Friday, Audun Lysbakken wrote on Twitter that the singing during the opening of Stortingets was better than before – I agree. He wrote that the Crown Prince did a great job – a Crown Prince he would not want otherwise. I agree that he did a good job, but I want to keep the Crown Prince. But then he wrote that in Norway we do not have a plan to achieve the 2030 climate change targets. I could then say a lot of things, that we have incorporated ourselves into the EU's climate policy, that we are pursuing a climate policy that reduces climate emissions, and that we have ordered a climate cure just to make a plan that comes before Christmas, about how we are going to achieve the 2030 climate targets. My question is simply: Is he not involved in climate policy, or is he deliberately leading his followers on Twitter behind the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e802	I have a feeling that we've been here before. I wonder if the representative Heggelund has not become my permanent manager in these debates! Now it's zone defense that's the most modern in our time, but right-wing swears to human marking. It's very nice, it's! Yes, I am closely following climate policy, and I am aware that the government has promised to make a notification. If that's the plan we need, I doubt first, because what we need now is not just a big message that says something about how we're going to get cut in 2030. We need a comprehensive plan of what kind of business policy it is to be combined with, what kind of distribution policy it is to be combined with. And that's the SV that the first party in the UK has presented, that's a draft of what we call a green new deal, which is to provide both climate policy, justice and jobs. And it must be allowed to ask for a plan when someone has been running for seven years without submitting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e809	I may have become a sort of manager for the representative Lysbakken. To be honest, I'm just doing what I'm told. [[laughs in the hall]] The Socialist Left Party has been talking about this green new deal, as they call it, for how many years now? I've asked representatives of the Socialist Left Party: what does this green new deal say? Nothing - there's nothing concrete to come up with yet. Only that is what everyone is concerned about – that industrial policy must be involved, that we must have a redistributive tax policy, etc. Instead of leading their followers on Twitter behind the light and saying there's nothing coming [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e818	The representative Heggelund must also try to keep his time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e823	I am pleased that the representative Heggelund said that we have not presented anything concrete on the Green New Deal, because then I can arrest him. There has been a document of more than 100 pages, and there has also been considerable publicity. I would suggest that the representative read it. There are many good proposals. There is a basis for a debate on this in SV around our program, but will of course also form the basis for very many good input that Lars Haltbrecken will take into account in those negotiations. So I hope that this time the government will be focused on what has not been set up for the whole period that the Right has had the power, namely wide-ranging discussions about climate policy, instead of just a civil bargain at the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e830	Recently, Sweden’s Prime Minister Stefan Löfven delivered a rather remarkable opinion. He said, ‘If you have a migration that means in the order of magnitude that you can’t handle integration, it’s clear that it’s going to be like having social tensions in a society. That's not good." On direct questions, he also confirmed that Sweden has problems with integration and that, therefore, immigration policy has been reformed and is now receiving considerably fewer. It has not been many years since the representative Lysbakken believed that Sweden was a light in Europe in the field of asylum policy. Does he still mean that, or does he agree with the Law that Sweden has probably had too much immigration and for liberal asylum policies, which has led to major negative challenges for Swedish society? In reality, it is well that the light has now passed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e842	Firstly, there are no parties in the Storting that are in favour of free immigration, precisely because there is a connection between how many people we receive in different forms of immigration and what kind of integration policy we can have. Then we probably have a disagreement – or we do – about where that boundary goes, because Norway has the possibility of, for example, to help more people flee, and then SV has proposed that we should make some clearer demands related to labour immigration than the Progress Party wants. This with light in Europe was really nice that the representative took up, because I am often confronted with it, and then people have forgotten to read what I actually said. I said in that interview that we understood that Sweden had to tighten up, because they, together with Germany, had been the only ones who went ahead to make sure that they accepted refugees during the refugee crisis, and that because other countries didn't, they had to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e849	The centre party is a hot supporter of the Norwegian model where elected representatives of the Stortinget have the freedom to make laws and regulations governing market forces and the content of private property rights. However, this model of society is attacked every day by the rules of the EEA Agreement, which prevent elected representatives from implementing what they promised before elections. It creates popular amputation. The EEA Agreement means uncontrolled labour immigration from countries with high unemployment rates and associated poor pay and working conditions. Uncontrolled labour immigration is the main driving force in the development of Difference Norway, a Difference Norway that the majority of Norwegian people do not want. The centre party stands for the Society-Norway. This is why the Stortinget must take back elected responsibilities for the Norwegian labour market and the labour market, so that people do not stand by. Will SV support the Central Party's demand for controlled labour immigration from EU countries outside the Nordic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e860	It is quite right that the development of working life is probably the most important thing if we are to combat differences. I would like to underline the need to pursue a policy that ensures equal pay and working conditions for all workers in Norway – workers who are already here, and migrant workers. It is, of course, the right-wing policy and the European legislation that are driving this forward, not the people who are looking for work in our country, and we certainly agree on that. SV, like the Centre Party, wants to replace the EEA Agreement with a trade agreement that gives us back the right to consult our labour market, and then we want to use it to set standards and premise in working life that ensure that all work in this country, for all workers in Norway, regardless of where they come from, is done under Norwegian pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e867	In the last year, SV has been involved in adopting changes in Norwegian law that deprive their children of their right to know their biological parents, and which potentially also contribute to making women the victims. SV has previously been concerned that egg donation should be altruistic. Now SV has agreed that payment should be given to those who donate. It makes the woman's body a salesman, which Christian People's Party is strongly opposed. I wonder how SV now relates to the fact that we have opened up for Norwegian women to become part of a market for the purchase of eggs, donors and surrogate mothers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e875	I don't know that version at all. If the Christian People's Party wants to take that debate, it must take on honest premises. On the contrary, SV has been in the front when it comes to fighting the commercialization of the female body. That's why we, together with the Christian People's Party, were a perpetrator of the Sex Purchases Act, that's why we don't want to accept surrogati in Norwegian law, and therefore we've been busy with frames around egg donation to ensure that we don't get a commercial market. Here, I think we're simply disagreeing on what's the starting point. The SV and the Christian People's Party have quite different reasons to have restrictive positions in this area. For the SV, it has just been essential to avoid the commercialisation of the female body, and we have maintained that as an important principle through the negotiations and the votes that have taken place in the Stortingen on the Biotechnology Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e882	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e887	If there is one word that can best describe what we politicians have met through the corona era from businesses, self-employed, freelancers, organizations, sports teams, employees and very common people, it is the word 'impressive'. The way in which we as societies have unitedly set each other up, showing patience, solidarity and accepting all the restrictions, shows something of the quality of Norway and Norwegian democracy. As the parliamentary leader of a government party, I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the Norwegian people, business and organization, with the two great, LO and NHO, at the head, and all in the public sector who have set up, and set up, at work. Even in times of crisis, it is a privilege and a grateful task to be responsible politicians in a society where the trust between the government and the people is so great, where we are so well organized, and not least where we have access to resources few other countries are close by. However, there is no doubt in the summary that for most people there is a time that is required. Two of the industries that are still hard-wearing, and that will wear off for a while yet, are the travel and cultural and event industries. The government party and the Progress Party agreement were agreed on Friday now, providing greater security for these industries in the future. There is reason to thank the Progress Party for important, constructive contributions. The compensation scheme for self-employed and freelancers was e.g. not only continued but also improved. The government announced that they are following developments closely and, of course, they are prepared to pass on different measures, change and supplement them, whether the situation of the corona and its future needs so require. Fortunately, a vaccine may be in place in the new year. Through close, good international cooperation, there is full pressure to develop a brand new vaccine in record time. International cooperation is not only necessary to deal with pandemics that do not know national borders, but also climate crisis, the fight against poverty and the migration problem, and to overcome a wide range of tax evasion. In the summer of 1989, well-known American statesman Francis Fukuyama came with this summary of the spirit of time: what we can experience is not just the end of the cold war, but that Western liberal democracy is now accepted as the ultimate version of human rule. A few months later in 1989 the wall fell in Berlin. Communism in Europe was history. Fukuyama was almost prophetic. The rest we know: 9/11, the fear and danger of terrorism, financial crisis, right-wing populism, left-wing populism, Trump, Brexit and Boris, European countries that reconstruct walls, now not to keep people inside, but out. Unfortunately, history was not over. And at a time when even major acts such as the United States and the United Kingdom have political leaders who are active drivers of unhealthy, directly dangerous nationalism, and almost warn against globalisation, it is important that a rich, well-organised country such as Norway takes responsibility and is driving more committed European cooperation. For a small country like Norway, it has historically been entirely decisive, and is an important contribution to our being the safe, privileged country we are all new to today. For Europe, the EU's cooperation with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe has been driven by democracy, human rights, economic prosperity and growth, and not least by the fact that the continent of fear is now the most peaceful continent on the planet. Europe needs a unified leadership to manage what it has the strength to reverse European cohesion for decades, a leadership that strengthens the democratisation of the EU and strengthens the role of the elected EU Parliament. The Land Meeting of the Left will deal with a new principal program last weekend. It was agreed that Norway would, in the long term, participate in the EU's democratic institutions through an EU membership, providing good solutions for fisheries and agriculture, and making a separate assessment of possible entry into the eurozone. Membership must be decided after referendum, and the Left shall respect the outcome. The scepticism and opposition to the opinion of any Norwegian EU membership are strong. There is little or nothing to suggest that the Left should make the EU an important issue in the forthcoming roll-out election programme and in the forthcoming peak period. And for us who are concerned about leading a policy that ensures and lays the foundations for jobs in the districts: it's not the nuanced yes-point left now that has the risk of our export industry or agriculture, but the parties that want to cancel the EEA Agreement. The meeting with the Left also selected new party leader, Guri Melby. In addition, she is Minister of Education in the government and is thus in the middle of the historic, inexhaustible effort left since the party was ordered to give all children the same opportunities in life regardless of background and origin and to fight against child poverty and inequality through systematic efforts at a strong public school and early effort. And unfortunately, not all children do well in Norway. Then our job as politicians is to take care of these kids, give them the opportunity to participate in leisure activities, go to kindergarten and at the SFO and have a school day shaped by teaching adapted to the individual and free from bullying. For example, the left has ensured free space in the nursery for children in families with poor advice, so we have invested in free schooling for children in families with low income, and so we have supported a better schooling service, a better leisure provision and free activity cards. I am also very pleased that, in close cooperation with the other two government parties, the Right and the Christian People's Party, and with the Progress Party, we have had eleven months of student support, better welfare arrangements for students and systematically set up several study places and facilities throughout the country, and not least the monthly better opportunities and the offer for those who are struggling to complete further education. For the Left, the fight for climate and the environment is about securing the freedom and opportunities of future generations. We're unsavory future-optimists. Hence, we cut greenhouse gas emissions and peace worthy and threatened nature. With the Left in the head, we now have the lowest emissions of 27 years nationally, despite going up in Norway's largest city, Oslo. It has not come about by itself, but through the advantages of electric cars, increased use of biofuels, an extensive commitment to public transport and rail, and not least extensive cooperation with Norwegian industry and the research and technological development environment. Heavy government tools such as Enova, the climate technology schemes and the TaxFUNN have increased by many billions. We have established a completely new state-owned climate investment company, Nysnø Klimainvestmentar AS, which in record time has been added 2 billion. kr in management capital. We have made it more profitable to make green choices in everyday life through a green tax shift that reduces the price of green solutions, such as zero and low emission cars and public transport. And in the draft budget for 2021 there is a huge effort on carbon capture and storage. This may be one of the most important measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions quickly and comprehensively, not only in Norway but worldwide, in order to avoid the worst climate change in the future. For the Left, freedom and opportunities are all the most important. There will certainly be a lot of battles in this process: the drug reform, the climate message to show us how to reach the 2030 targets, and various measures to ensure that even more thorns are realised, and closed down by realizing its founding dream, for example. – necessary and demanding proposals, but proposals that make Norway a better country. For better is always possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e917	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e922	The representative, Breivik, spent a lot of time in his speech talking about all the innovations that Left has accomplished in this period – things that have been done and things that have been created. The left has even established foundations during this large-scale period. A few weeks ago, it became known to us that the Left in the budget negotiations in 2017 was drumming through 5 million. to a foundation to work against social control, for equality and for diversity. So far it sounds like a very good idea. It was just one small problem that left wasn't as clear in the negotiations. It was that the foundation did not exist. No, the then and present Minister of Culture created the foundation itself by hand picking people who were going to run it, after the money was in place. Does the representative Breivik see the fact that adopting money in the million-dollar class for foundations that are not yet established is unprofessional?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e927	The purpose of the money is the most important. At Stortinget we are busy finding ways out of problems that are important to solve. The aim of the money for this foundation was just to fight social inequality and social discrimination in the immigrant environment. It is not the Storting's job to post-grade how the money is actually used. Fortunately, with the control systems of the department and the directorate, one can find out if things are not entirely consistent. Then intervene and allow the organisation to make changes and fix any errors that may be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e932	Yes, there are a lot of good forces working against social control and for equality and diversity. The special thing here was the procedure -- a procedure that testifies that the Left Party was perhaps more concerned with having ownership of the foundation itself, and even getting attention by being able to hand pick people and stand up in the press, that it might be as important as actually making a solid effort against social control. It was also that the news of the default of the money reached most of us a few weeks ago, but it reached the Left in the government much earlier. Yes, in 2018 the first time came a notice that everything was not as it was supposed to be in this organisation. After that, the foundation got a new 15 million. kr over 2 years. Does the real representative, Mr Breivik, think that the establishment of the formation and its handling have been carried out in a proper manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e937	I can de-dramatize this. There is a very common procedure in negotiations between the parties at Stortinget in budgetary context when the parties have different preferences, different things you want to solve. It is also equally common for the quality assurance of those receiving different support from the State budget to be provided by the managing body, whether it is a department or a directorate. This is a very ordinary way of allowing money for a very good purpose in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e942	I want to start by saying that the representative Breivik and I have a common interest, a passion, and that is for a car, and necessarily not battery driven. In September, the sale of electric cars amounted to 60 pst. of the new car sales, and the Stortinget has adopted a target that all new cars should be zero-emission cars from 2025. Then I see in the Left's proposal for a new programme that the Left will end all sales of petrol and diesel cars from 2025. Then I almost have to ask the representative Breivik: does that mean that the Left will ban the sale of petrol and diesel cars in 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e949	The most important thing for the Left in car policy, and I understand that we and the party of the representative Limi are a few things about, is to use market forces actively to make it cheaper to make the climate-friendly choices, even when one is on the threshold of buying a car. We've done that through a very good cooperation. We have changed the car charging system in favour of zero and low-driving cars, which we now really see the results of, where the sales of zero-driving cars, and partly low-driving cars like hybrids, dominate in total, and we are on the right track towards the common goal that the new car sales in 2025 should be 100 pst. zero-emission vehicles. Then the representative Limi is aware that this is a software draft that has now been sent out to the party to listen, cf. an earlier representative who was asked for the same thing. I look forward to participating in the processing of this in the party organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e954	Indeed, it is possible to have different opinions on whether the objective adopted by the Stortinget to sell only zero-emission cars from 2025 is realistic. At the same time, we know that the very conversion of the charging system that has been implemented in recent years also contributes to the emergence of new technologies, modern engine technologies that contribute to both less consumption and less emissions. So I hope that the representative Breivik will influence the Left in the right direction, so that you don't get banned and that way restricts people's freedom of choice, but just keeps stimulating so that you can choose, and you make your choices according to your needs. But whether you choose battery or petrol/diesel, you can choose a modern technology that is both energy-efficient and contributes to reducing emissions, at the best for the climate in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e960	I can confirm that for the Left, it's absolutely crucial that we have an active tax policy, which just makes it cheaper to make the climate-friendly choices in everyday life, whether it's for most people to trade a car, or it's for companies to make money in a market. I can also confirm that as a government party, we obviously think about the future car tax system, in order to last this kind of thing after 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e967	I noticed that the Left's representative used his post to say that they have given priority to reducing prices on different measures that will make people choose renewables. But last week it became clear that the municipality of Troms and Finnmark had to cancel contracts to use biodiesel on their buses. The justification is the sole charge imposed by the government from 1 July of this year. The extra costs from 1 July to December this year will be close to 6 million. kr. An already pressed state economy thus pushes Troms and Finnmark county municipalities, but also many other actors, onto fossil diesel again. It can't be said to be a very good environmental policy. It surprises me that the Left is pursuing a policy that makes it harder and more expensive to switch to renewable fuels. What does Left think about the fact that more people are now being forced to return to fossil diesel as a result of the government's introduction of a user charge on biodiesel?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e972	It shows a little bit of complexity when you're going to have a transition from pure fossil fuel to a biomixed fuel. It also shows the importance of everything we do to stimulate the Norwegian forest industry and Norwegian bioproducers to contribute biofuels that also maintain the sustainability criterion, which we need to add to biofuels. Then I say we're going to have to wait and see the results of both the budget proposals and the budget negotiations before we take the final verdict on how the county councils can deal with this kind of problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e979	‘Crises do not just disappear, we close our eyes to them. More than 70 million people are fleeing the world – never before have there been so many. In the face of refugee crises, we must take our responsibility and ensure that Norway is a safe haven for people seeking protection from war, distress and misery. The humanitarian situation of the Moria camp refugees is very serious. The refugee camp is built for 3,000 people, but it houses about 20,000 today. There they live under unworthy conditions while they have to wait a long time for the asylum application to be dealt with.» This was posted on the Left's website on April 23rd this year. The night of September 8th, the Moria camp burned it down. That same day the government announced that they would receive 50 refugees from the Moria camp. What I'm asking is whether the Left really believes that Norway is taking its responsibility and that the government is making sure that Norway is a safe haven for people seeking protection from war, distress and misery, when only 50 people from Moria are admitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e986	Yes, Norway is definitely taking its responsibility in this context. If all countries had taken equal responsibility for the refugee situation in both the Moria camp and elsewhere in the world, we would probably have been able to solve the acute crisis by far. And of course, as a representative of the left, I would be happy to accept more than the 50 that we are now accepting. But remember, by doing it, Norway will also be a heavy, important driver for the rest of the European countries to do the same. And if a little bit of the refugee situation that is now pushing on both the borders of Europe and the rest of the world, is a whole lot dependent on Norway alone not doing much more than everyone else, but that we're going through what we're doing, dragging with us the rest of the European Community. Only this way can we set up for all those who are currently in need and in a completely hopeless situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e993	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e998	It's quite incredible – when I hear the red-green parties in this debate, it's impossible to recognize themselves in the picture being drawn. It's the opposition's role to criticise the government, but the Labour Party and the rest of the left-hand side are wrong. They're wrong. The truth is, we have a government that shows leadership, safe leadership. We have a government that trusts the families, who believe in the community, the close relationships and voluntary engagement. We put the individual in the center, yes, we put human dignity in the centre, from the beginning of life to the end of life. We are in a government that takes the Christian cultural heritage seriously and that knows that freedom of faith must be defended. This working party does not seem to understand. The left-hand side is just not there. They're in a completely different place, surrounded by state coercion and belief that everyone should go at four-quarters pace. But man is so much more than that. I am proud to belong to a Christian Democratic Party that knows that the most crucial thing in society is not the state, but precisely the communities maintained by families, religious communities, volunteering and institutions. Values such as personal responsibility and trust contribute to the creation of a good society for all, where the small communities are at the centre. Our Christian history is taking us into a new era. It characterizes us as a country, and the values are still relevant. But the values are also under pressure. When parts of the left will clean the Constitution of Faith and Church, we must be on guard. Because even though the Christian cultural heritage is still strong in Norway, we know the counter-crimes. But the Christian People's Party is proud of the Christian cultural heritage. Christianity characterizes our human vision and values. It characterizes our laws and our history, yes, our whole culture. We'll never let the left-hand side win that game. The value basis obligates. Yes, we are obliged to pursue a policy that gives a better life for all those who in the course of life need extra help and support in different ways, and in life there are many who may have special needs, either because of sickness, job loss, loss of close relationships, maybe a break in life, or because of a demanding starting point in life. Then, as a society, we need to set up – with the leisure card to enable all children to participate in leisure activities, with a historical increase in child welfare, with the escalation plan against violence and abuse, with cheaper SFOs for those who need it, with more money for lonely minimum pensioners. We've got a senior agent in place. We have provided grants to non-profit institutions that care for the sick and dying so that they can get better care in a vulnerable phase of life. The offer of seriously ill children and young people has been strengthened. We're increasing the poverty rate to about 1 billion. kr. We have introduced more reasonable childcare facilities for low-income families, a national system of free core time in kindergarten, increased family protection, parental support, health and school health services, child protection, drug and psychiatry care and work against violence and abuse. In addition, we have made sure that young people in low-income families get more in school scholarships, and started a trial project with free part-time space in the SFO. The list could have been much longer. This is Christian People's Party policy that makes a difference in people's everyday lives, because the Christian People's Party wants to take that fight. But we also need to look beyond the borders of the country. As a resource-rich country, we have a special responsibility to help people in need, as in Greece, in the Moria camp. The enormous suffering makes an impression. That's why I'm glad that the Christian People's Party got a government breakthrough to help these people in an extreme situation – absolutely necessary, but of course not enough alone. That's why we're now helping out in different ways, and we're still working to get a pan-European solution. Common European solutions are important, not only in this specific situation, but also later when new crises occur, for they know we will come. So we haven't set a sentence for Norwegian aid for refugees in Greece. We're not done, but we're on, and we're already seeing some results. Teachers, students and parents had their everyday life turned their heads around when the schools had to close in ours. From spending many hours each day with contact students and fellow students, home schooling and screen meetings became the new everyday life. School students and teachers therefore took a large part in the burden of social exclusion. In the face of an uncertain future, we all need firm and secure points of view, and there's something children and young people need right now, is the safe adults who can create a safe community for the children. Through home schooling and high levels of isolation during the spring, some of the lessons were lost for some, but more important now than increasing the focus on reintroducing lost education will be to focus on just social and relationship-building activities in the weeks to come. School life must be about belonging and cooperation, safe relations and care in school everyday life, because in a secure environment, it is precisely groundwork for both learning and mastering. I'm proud of Norwegian youth. Through different times, young people have shown that they are getting up and going through crises. I think we'll see that this time too. Future generations are totally dependent on us taking the climate noise seriously. The world is in the midst of a serious climate crisis. With today's knowledge, therefore, it is absolutely necessary for us to have a large-scale CO 2 capture and storage system to achieve the climate objectives. The Langskip project will be an important Norwegian contribution to just reaching them — both in Norway and internationally. We have both the capital and the technological skills needed to succeed. In addition, we have decades of Norwegian offshore competence and a continental shelf that is an ideal storage space for CO 2. We thus have the opportunity to create a complete value chain for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2. The government has promoted a big message about CCS, a long step forward towards the realisation of the zero-emission society. We are facing an exciting political harvest. There'll probably be a lot of noise, a lot of trouble. The media will speculate and conspire. The Christian People's Party must have looked at the political issues on which we are elected, the basis on which we manage, the belief in the family as a framework for a safe growth, the dignity of our elderly, the belief in civil society and the creative power of volunteering, the close relations and secure communities, a robust and solid defense of the country. We shall be proud of what Norway represents, our freedoms and our democracy, and we shall be proud of our Christian cultural heritage. It shall not be hidden away; it shall be lifted forward – always.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1028	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1033	The working party is deeply concerned about Norwegian child protection and about children who are failing by the large community. Before the Christian People's Party entered the government, they were with us about that concern. The criticism of the Christian People's Party is muted, despite the fact that we get strong and frightening stories from and about single children. In the last seven years, we have received a bunch of professional reports that clearly require action, and we have more and more cases in the EMD, which confirms the impression of a child-restraint that deserves better. The Christian People's Party is simply not to recognize from when we stood together to strengthen child protection in general and give priority to the ideal institutions. Is the representative of Gruvan happy that the government is helping to increase the disparities in society and that the efforts are strongest for those who have much and most, as is also reflected in an increased commitment to commercial child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1040	Here are several issues to be addressed. Firstly, I would like to say that the government is not pursuing an unsocial policy. We have seen many examples of important actions – targeted – just to meet the child poverty that the representative Henriksen is talking about: increasing child welfare, the leisure card, the introduction of free SFOs and kindergartens, etc. for low-income families. As far as child protection is concerned, we are concerned that we should do the best we can. We also record concerns reports. We are now working in the government with a new notice on child protection for the spring, in 2021. We see that in several areas there may be a need to strengthen child protection. That doesn't mean that everything that's happening today needs to be done better than today. There is a lot of good work done, but among other things. Competence we know is an area that we want to work to strengthen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1047	Despite the good intentions and policies of the government, there are increasing numbers of people growing up in persistent poverty. The Workers' Party will have a fairer society, where differences are reduced and opportunities are increased. The pandemic now gives us an additional commitment to further efforts to prevent the development of more and more children falling outside. Before the Christian People's Party joined the government, they were on proposals that went in that direction. Among other things, they were involved in earmarking positions for municipal child protection, i.e. several safe adults for children, on whom Gruvan was involved, and they were also involved in our proposal to limit commercial actors in child protection, i.e. to use the money in a good way for the children who need it. Now we see a Christian People's Party that is not concerned about multiple ear-marked positions, and that is not concerned about increasing the ideal share of child protection. Does the representative Gruvan think this is good for the most vulnerable children in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1053	We are committed to good child protection, which has competence, which can intervene at the right time, and which can put in place the measures that are important to help children in a vulnerable situation. We are concerned about child poverty, as the representative Henriksen also expresses in his reply. We share that concern. At the same time, we are also concerned with a policy in this area that allows families to manage themselves better than they do today. That is why we are, for example, It is committed to increasing child-responsiveness, perhaps one of the most targeted measures to reduce child-restraint. I have to say I am very surprised that the Workers' Party is not with us in that very intention and is putting in the measures where they really work best.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1058	The Christian People's Party talks eagerly about combating poverty and differences in society. Special child poverty is what the party is talking about eagerly. At the same time, Christian People's Party policies ensure that differences and poverty increase. The Brochmann 2 Committee has concluded that the increase in child poverty in Norway is almost unambiguously linked to immigration. The Christian People's Party is fighting for more and more people to come to Norway, despite high costs and major challenges of integration. Less than half of those who come as refugees are at work. Many live on the side of society. We see an increasing problem with recriminalism, but the Christian People's Party will not be confused by the facts. In Sweden we see that Ebba Busch and the Christian Democrats have finally woken up. They see that immigration poses major challenges in society, challenges that are also growing rapidly in Norway. When has the Christian People's Party planned to wake up and see the need to pursue a responsible immigration policy, as Ebba Busch and the Christian Democrats in Sweden have understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1065	I am proud of the immigration policy that Norway is pursuing, for which the Christian People's Party has been a spokesperson, and which the Progress Party has also agreed with the government until they left the government. That we can accept 3 000 quota refugees each year, I think, is an honorary sign for Norway. That we can contribute that way by sharing some of our wealth with that part of the world that has the worst and most difficult, I think we're doing very well. Then it is clear that some immigration policy remains challenging. We need to work more with integration, we need to work more in order for people to get to work and have their own incomes in order to be able to handle themselves. We would like to take that challenge, and we hope that the Progress Party will also be with us in that part of the work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1072	The Progress Party will contribute, but more in the neighbourhoods, where one can help thousands of more for the same money that we take a few to Norway. Numerous reports have revealed that we do not have control over what Norwegian aid money is going to do. Last week there were new revelations that Norway has not worked well enough to target corruption. Nevertheless, money is generously distributed to the world's most corrupt country. We don't know if the money's coming out, the State Secretary in the U.D. The Christian People's Party has never cared about this. The most important thing for the Christian People's Party has always been how much money Norway gives. The results seem to come in second rows. I wonder: Why is the Christian People's Party not concerned with aid results? Why is it only the percentage of GNI that is important, and why is it not now the need to safeguard Norwegian interests and ensure the needs of Norway at the expense of spending so much money on aid that has not been documented?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1079	I'm proud that we can use 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. We are one of the richest countries in the world, and we must share some of our wealth and wealth with the rest of the world. So we're very concerned that in terms of the money to be spent in this area, it's not just about taking out a sum of money, but about meeting those people who really need it the most. That's why we've been busy, along with the government, helping the very poorest, those who live in the very poorest parts of the world. It's been our policy. Over the years that I've been at Stortinget, we've had a lot of reports controlling how the money is spent, and a lot of this turns out to be reaching out and being able to make a difference in people's everyday lives. Then there's something that doesn't work well. We need to tackle this and fix it, so that we ensure that the money comes to the right place, in a good, safe and secure way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1090	One of the most serious things we elected people in the nation's national assembly can do is to give sovereignty. By several crossroads, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have been united when proposals have been made to do just that, against those proposals. When the Right and Advance Party proposed in government – with Minister of Finance Siv Jensen at the head – a refusal of sovereignty in the financial field, the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority (NFS) proposed to intervene under the EU, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party voted against. Yes, the Christian People's Party has yet to propose that a person should ask the Supreme Court to make a legal consideration of the waiver of sovereignty against the Constitution. Correspondingly, when the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left in the Government proposed to introduce vital parts of Norwegian energy and industrial policy into the EU, giving sovereignty, enlisting under the EU Energy Agency Acer, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party opposed. Once again, a legal reference was proposed. Will the Christian People's Party also propose the same in the case of the European Railway Agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1097	Our government has made assessments of legal competence on the issue of Görlsvik here, in the railway field. We have received an answer stating that Norway does not give any sovereignty in this case. We still have opportunities to set our own frameworks around the activities on Norwegian rails, as far as weather, climate and safety are concerned, in all other areas. So we feel that this matter is well resolved, and in this case we do not give sovereignty in breach of Norwegian constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1102	A case from iTromsø last week showed how Ida Karoline and her family have been the frame of this spring's great spectacle. Her two sons in five and two years must both have glasses to correct visual defects. The consequence of the spectacle, which the Christian People's Party took care of, is that Ida Karoline now has to spend NOK 11,000, then fill out a lot of different forms and try to get the money back, which is not entirely certain that she gets. It's quite violent for a small children's family to spend $11,000 on glasses and not know if everything is refunded. Is the Christian People’s Party happy with this arrangement as it has been, and with its own efforts toward the family of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1109	As far as our efforts towards families with children are concerned, I think that we have done a lot of good, important things to take care of children who grow up in poor families. Brilliant hats can be a challenging thing. At the same time, I believe that the way in which this was finally addressed through the corrections made takes care of children with major visual problems and keeps them covered by the public system. We feel that some of the other adjustments are of a smaller nature, but still they will be taken care of by the state with the biggest problems — and therefore the largest ones too. I hope that this will be the practice we can apply also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1116	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1121	Our time requires a lot of people elected all over Norway, and also of the Stortinget. We are in a temporary state of emergency because of the corona, while continuing a permanent and absolutely necessary transformation of society – a green transition. Anyone who can take it in, sees the urgency of solving the climate and nature crisis. The world's animal populations are on average reduced by two thirds over 50 years. Climate change threatens life and health around the world if we do not change climate policy as soon as possible. The solution to future challenges, pandemics, climate crisis and natural crisis requires that we see the relationship between people and the environment. A good term for this is the term ‘one health’ of the World Health Organisation. World Health, i.e. Animal health, human health and natural health, are linked, they point out. This is evident during the covid-19 outbreak. Loss of nature leads to impaired animal health and public health because nature stores carbon, it is the habitat of plants, animals and microscopic helpers, and it supports us not only when it is cultivated, but also when it is wild, by providing basic services such as clean air, clean water, flood protection, medicines and good experiences. It is therefore essential that we resolve the coronary crisis in a way that also resolves the natural and climate crisis. A few weeks ago, the Red Cross presented another report showing that the majority in Norway are concerned about more extreme weather. The report also found that eight out of ten Nordics are willing to make more climate-friendly choices in their everyday lives to mitigate climate change, and that only one in five Nordics believes that climate change preparedness is good enough. Nevertheless, the majority in Stortinget continues to build motorways instead of racially safe roads we have and move money over to trains, ferries and collectives. They continue to subsidise oil exploration, the golden calf of the last century, instead of investing in renewable alternatives for which we know there is growing interest. Since we closed the Storting before the summer, the interest in oil on the world market has plummeted, while for renewables it has speeded up. Renewable energy investments have risen most in value this year by all industries, in fact the whole of 56 pst. At the same time, the oil service industry has fallen most of all industries. While the values of oil fell in the rest of the world, investments in fossil energy will increase in Norway in 2020, according to the last estimates of the SSB. I'm sorry to say that, but in ten years' time, the oil tax package adopted by the majority of the population before the summer will be seen as the last major cramp of an out-of-date political regime. It's not about the jobs of people not being important, but about the fact that investment in oil is no longer the way a rescuer works. Carbon capture and storage, on the other hand, creates jobs and takes the world forward. Unless the world manages to cut energy consumption dramatically, we're totally dependent on a massive expansion of this technology if we're to have some hope of limiting the globe's warming to 1.5 degrees. However, the government says no to carbon capture and storage on Klemetsrud, unless the Oslo population is able to obtain 60 pst. of the money itself. It's now highly uncertain whether they'll be able to do it. In the EU, there is a great struggle for investment funds, and Norway is, after all, a rich country that can be expected to cover this cost itself. We've been waiting for an investment decision for CCS for seven years. The oil tax package was adopted in one direction after a few days of negotiations in the Storting, despite enormous economic risk. Today, therefore, the Green Party is proposing to ensure that the tax regime for the petroleum industry prevents economically unprofitable investments. We need to shift ambitions, risk capital and taxes to sea wind, green shipbuilding, CCS, solar energy and businesses that create jobs and development without ruining the future of our kids. EU Heads of State are now using the Corona crisis as an opportunity to make the economy and society more sustainable. One third of the EU Corona package will be used for climate action, renewable energy and energy storage. One million new charging points shall be built for an electric car. In France, Air France is no longer allowed to offer domestic flights where trains are a good alternative and in order for gas stations to receive corona support in Germany, they must offer cargo to the electric cars. Norway has a lot to learn here. At the same time as climate change threatens, Norway continues to disperse, consume and pollute the habitats of animals and plants. The government protects new areas with one hand and makes it easier to build down all the other nature, the beach zone and the food soil with the other. In addition, they do not hesitate to remove protection when appropriate. Right now, dredging is planned in the sheltered Tanadelta in Finnmark, road construction through the wetlands of the Northern Tyrifjord and new E6 through the Lowend delta at Lillehammer. It does not help with new areas of protection when the protection decisions are not worth the paper they are written on. All children deserve to grow up with bird whites and blueberry tours in the vicinity, discover traces of gloat or yew in the mountain or get eyes on a oat. That is why, in the Greens, we want to reform nature policy. We have to stop building down nature, and we have to invite back more of the nature we have lost. That is why we are proposing today to ask the government to present a big message with an obliging action plan to restore 15 pst. of the degraded ecosystems in Norway, in line with the Aichi objectives. Sometimes we're so small. In Trondheim they have opened the stream and created a beautiful nature park in Iladalen right by where my grandfather lived in the past. On Dovrefjell, the restoration of a large mountain area in the old shooting area is finally completed. In Oslo, wetlands shall be restored in Bjørvika and salmon shall be back in Akerselva. All children also deserve to grow up in a world that defends fundamental human rights. In recent months we have seen a huge public commitment to the refugee crisis at the borders of Europe. The Action Group Evacuate the children of Moria now and a number of Norwegian civil society organisations have allied themselves with many of its rapporteurs and demand that Norway accept more than 50 asylum seekers from Moria. The majority of the population also supports this. Norway has everything needed to help relocate more asylum seekers from Greece. Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, and Tromsø have all said that they can accept 50 each. And we have a lot of capacity. Asylum reception across Norway is empty and laid down, competent professionals in the municipalities are unemployed because asylum seekers are now barely coming – they are stopped in Turkey and Greece after Europe closed its borders in 2016. The fact that 50 from Moria are not enough is not about being good and kind, it is about defending fundamental human rights, where the right to asylum as asylum seekers in Greek islands is now being deprived because Europe's borders are closed, and Europe does not take responsibility for the treatment of people's asylum applications elsewhere. In addition, the humanitarian conditions on our own continent are totally unacceptable. Greece has warned and asked us to contribute to evacuation for many years. 50 from Moria is not enough, for Norway is to be a country that defends and fights for international rules to ensure peace, stability and respect for human dignity. That is why I am today promoting a proposal together with the Swedish Government to request that asylum seekers be relocated from Greece to Norway as quickly as possible, and to increase the number to significantly more than 50 in 2020. We hope for broad support for that proposal. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1156	The representative of Une Bastholm has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1163	Thanks to Une Bastholm for what I thought was a good post. I think it was very good that she spent so much of her speaking time talking about the natural crisis. If there's something we're going to learn from the coronary crisis, it's that we need to be better prepared for the crises we know will come. It's precisely when we're able to see the crises in context, that we can really do something about it. It's about health, it's about climate, it's about nature, and it's about the big social crisis that we're finding in many places in the world, which also apply in Norway, with increasing differences. As others have noted, the SSB recently presented a report showing that differences in Norway are increasing much more than we think. Those who have the most, treasure less, and they earn more. For the Workers' Party, it is an objective in itself to combat increased differences, but it is also an objective because it is essential for us to be able to meet the climate crisis. If we're going to be upset by the big changes we're going to have to make in the next few years, people have to feel they're fair. I'm sure the yellow vests aren't primarily a rebellion against climate proposals, but a rebellion against social differences. What is the Green Party's policy on the environment for a more redistributive policy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1172	Our alternative state budget is very marked by the fact that we are using the tax system for the major redistribution of society, and then we are using the charging system to bring about the green transition that will ensure that today's policies are also fair for future generations. What we're doing on the tax side is we're moving a lot of the tax, you could say, that those with the lowest income get less tax, and those with higher incomes get more. We're also grading the property tax. We have a higher base deduction, while there is a higher tax on the largest assets. Together, we see that we can redistribute large amounts of money through the way we use the tax system. On average, they with income below NOK 600 000 will come out better with our scheme. We've also looked at how the charges affect ordinary people. We see that even though many people raise their eyebrows above our use of fees to make an environmental change, most people are only left with 400 kroner less; a normal family with the usual amount of air travel, meat consumption and everything is left with 400 kroner less a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1179	Thank you for that. I think it was a good and exciting answer, and I think it is very good if the Greens are also more committed to the fight against increased differences. I am sure that this is absolutely essential for us to be able to achieve our common objectives in the climate issue. In a year's time, it's a choice. This is the last presidential debate before the elections. In the Workers' Party, we are ready to give Norway a new course to get a government that will have less differences between people and less climate change, but also more jobs. It's the election result that determines what kind of government we get, but the voters have a right to know what they can end up getting. Is it such that those who consider voting for the Greens can know that they will receive a new government by voting for the Greens' Environment Party, or can they risk ending up with four new years with Erna Solberg and Right in the driver's seat? Will the Green Party be able to give clear answers to the voters before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1188	I think I understand the question. We are very clear there to our voters, and our voters know that what they get by voting on the Green Party is a party that puts climate, environment and nature first anyway. That means that it's up to, for example, The Labour Party to return enough in negotiations to us, because if not we feel obliged to go to the other side and have conversations there. This is a process. How we position ourselves, and what we choose to say about cooperation, there should be a process in the party now towards Christmas, and to which I am awaiting, but I myself have said that I experience it as more likely now that we are talking to the Workers' Party first. One reason is that we have a situation on the right-hand side where you have locked yourself to the Progress Party, with which it is not relevant for us to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1197	Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is currently the main challenge facing Norway, in addition to its corona. We're not in the target, but the emissions are going down, and for the fourth consecutive year, they've gone down under this government. For the first time in Norwegian climate policy history, we now have a binding climate policy for all sectors. In the case of oil and gas industries, it cannot be phased out; it must be uncompetitive, we believe. In the event of liquidation, we risk losing 150 000 jobs and leading Norwegian competence. Without this industry, we couldn't have had the knowledge of building the world's largest offshore wind farm, we couldn't have invested in hydrogen like we do, or in the technology to capture CO2. How will the Green Party cooperate with the oil and gas industries to maintain important sector competences?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1207	The very concrete answer to that is that we have called for an oil commission, where the social partners are supposed to sit around the table and be involved in deciding how the conversion is going to be done. What distinguishes us from all of the other parties is that we clearly say that we want an end date. That is, when we sit down with the parties, we want the state to say that this is what we think we have in order to get to this conversion. It obliges the state to invest heavily in green – carbon capture and storage, green shipbuilding and sea wind, for which we have much higher ambitions than any other party. Only sea wind can provide 27 000 jobs in Norway – if we compare ourselves with the ambitions of the United Kingdom now and what they have assessed that it provides jobs. I think it is very wrong to think that the 150 000 jobs will be lost. It depends on how to do the conversion. The most menacing thing about those jobs is just to leave it to the market to decide. We saw that in 2014 and 2015. Then the oil sector lost over 50,000 jobs overnight, because it was not a politically managed, controlled job closure, but it happened overnight in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1216	I feel that the Environment Party often restricts the solutions of the Greens to people's freedom of action. Under this government, we have made it easier and cheaper to choose environmentally friendly solutions, and it must be more expensive to pollute. It works. We can see that emissions are going down. Today, every second car sold is a zero-emission car. This has been done through targeted incentives from the government. Thus, we conduct a climate policy that allows even climate negators to make green choices. Is it only a whip that is the solution from the Greens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1221	We have to start with a little bit of reality orientation. The government of Erna Solberg has barely reduced emissions since 1990. We're at about the same level. On average, under Erna Solberg's government, emissions have been cut by just over 1 pst. every year. That is, we need a quadrupling of the tempo to get to the goal of 2030. So we're not on track to get to the climate cuts we need. We need a completely different way of thinking about climate. We first of all need to stop giving money to the investments that increase emissions. Two major sectors are concerned: oil and gas and transport. In the transport sector, we see that the government has not dared to take hold of the aircraft, and has not been able to hold on to the polluter-pays principle in terms of petrol and diesel. Although the CO 2 tax has been increased for petrol and diesel, last year it was ensured – now it is exciting to see the state budget coming in a few days – to reduce the user charge, so the price for the consumer in the market is exactly the same in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1231	The coronary apathy has led to perhaps the greatest crisis in travel life ever. A large number of employees in hotel and tourism companies, not least thousands of employees in the aviation industry and airlines, have been nominated or terminated and experience great uncertainty about their future and the well-being of their family. However, they hope that the pandemic situation will turn around and that both jobs and everyday life will return. The Green Party proposes a policy whereby a steady and severe reduction in activity and jobs in aviation will be a permanent situation and that many employees in aviation today may become the new standard. My question to the Green Party is therefore what she has to say to the thousands who have their daily bread and well-being related to aviation and travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1238	I deeply disagree that the way the Green Party will transform society is by shutting things down all the time. It's claims we get against us all the time, now with the aviation, but also with the oil, as if we want to put it down overnight. With a transformation that we see for ourselves, it will happen gradually, and we believe that the state is obliged to provide alternatives for people, among other things. jobs for people who lose their jobs. In the case of aircraft, we have to make sure to have a good infrastructure. In large parts of the country, air traffic is the only public transport, which we are also very concerned about. But many of the flights where Norway has been at the top of Europe have been abroad and between the big cities of Norway, where trains can be taken. There we believe that we have a responsibility as a state to move money and to develop the alternatives that exist. My message is that we will take care of the jobs, but we have to have jobs that do not destroy for future generations. It is then that aviation is fossilly based today and in the foreseeable future, and we do not have time for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1248	SV wants emissions to decrease and differences to decrease. We want a new red-green government. Now the rich get tax cuts, while ordinary people get welfare cuts. But what happens to the Greens? In February this year, the representative said that the Greens can have government cooperation with the Right. People should know what they're voting for. Will the Green Party continue to open up government cooperation with the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1255	The answer to that is yes. It's up to what we get into negotiations with the Workers' Party and SV, for example, whether that's where our loyalty lies. Our loyalty is not with a block. There I believe that both SV and Left have chosen the wrong strategy. I recognize that there is a different approach to it, but if you think that the climate and natural crisis is the biggest challenge in our time, it doesn't make sense to stick to each of your big fossil-dependent parties. Then we have to use the power we have as a small party to put hard against hard, and I feel obliged to. My constituents need to know that they vote for the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European I believe it is more likely that we will have more left to talk to an Labour Party-led government first, but that is not something I want to promise, at least not until the party tells me that that is what I should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1266	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1271	A few days ago, so to speak exactly one year before the election, we got confirmation of what many years have felt on the body, but as the Right is trying to talk away from, that something is rotting in Difference Norway – yes, even more rotting than the statistics have shown us now. I'm talking about the numbers from the SSB, which shows that the differences have increased four times more than what we've believed – that the richest percentage has accounted for twice as much of the total income that we've assumed up to now – and the magazine's list of Capital, which shows that we've never had as many billionaires in Norway as we have now. The country's 400 wealthiest has increased its wealth by over 700 billion. DKK of 10 years. At the same time, 500,000 people have been dependent on Nav over the year, and the government is planning to cut off the unemployed. Behind the numbers of increased inequality, it hides people. On the one hand, we have the majority who are losing on this development, on the other hand, the minority of super-rich people who are getting richer and richer. During the crisis, many have gone to work with a high risk of infection – bus drivers who have literally kept the wheels of society going, shop clerks who have provided us with food on the table. They have been applauded and included in the list of societally critical functions, but on the payrolls they end up at the bottom. On the other hand, the managers of the bus companies set a pay record, and the owners of the daily food chains, such as Rema-Reitan and Johan Johannson, are on the Capital list of the richest. That list also includes welfare professionals like the Adolfsen brothers. They have installed heavy suction pipes into the state treasury and built a property of 5.6 billion. kr, e.g. by selling properties they have received free of charge or at cheap prices from Norwegian municipalities. How did we end up with the Difference Norway we have today? At least this is not due to natural forces beyond the control of the elected representatives, as some party leaders have said. On the contrary, the emergence of differing Norway’s political decisions that have led to tax-free giant wealth for billionaires and wage dumping for workers is due not only to the decisions to allow welfare professionals to provide private wealth to the citizens, but also to the decision made by the Workers’ Party and the citizens when they opened up to tender for bus drivers. It was in 1991. The following year, the Brundtland government, supported by the citizens, introduced zero tax on dividends. This means huge non-tax assets for the millionaires on the one hand and wage dumping for the employees on the other. Bus drivers on tenders, as we have seen now during the strike, show us how politics can change people's lives to the worse. They lag behind on wages, they are guided in detail by the stopwatch through the working day, while for the richest we see that less taxes have led to the opposite, namely more money, more power and more influence over society. We're going to turn this around. After the previous election, we also have to ask ourselves: are we really going to believe that the parties that created the problems are the right parties to solve the problems? Today we are still in the worst crisis since the 1930s. We have twice as many unemployed people as before. There is reason to believe that unemployment will break down, but crises also mean political choices. Market liberalism may be the leading driver, Milton Friedman, said that the outcome of crises depends on what ideas are in circulation. In the government corridors, market liberal desktop theories are in circulation, because even though not the corona virus itself makes a difference between poor and rich, the government's crisis policy definitely does. From day one it has been about protecting the privileges of the richest. Billions have been given to property barons without any conditions and demands that they cut the rent for companies or individuals in difficulty. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of unemployed people have been waiting for months to get their hard-earned daily allowance, and so now the government will cut off the crisis packages that Red helped fight through on the Storting to protect the unemployed from the effects of the crisis. Let me make one thing clear: Red does not accept that as much as one penny is taken from the daily allowance to the unemployed, and no other party in the Storting should accept it either. Fortunately, the government's crisis policy, where the rich are favored while the bill is being turned over to the labour force, is not natural. It shows the story, not least the crisis of the 1930s. For then, the interests of ordinary people were for the first time placed in the political leadership. Even in the current crisis, there are completely different ideas in circulation than the market-liberal ideas we see in the government. Red presented a crisis programme based on the same basic idea as in the 1930s, namely a fair way out of the crisis to ensure income, work and well-being for all. Now the NHO has correctly stated that it is unmusical for weights and bus drivers to strike during the Korona epidemic. We in Red probably have a rather different taste of music than the business owners and NHO. We agree with the head of the Securitas, Robert Ball, who says that it is the owner's side that sings falsely when the Securitas manager earns ten times more than the employees of the company. Then the fake melodies are on the owner's side, and not on those who are now fighting to get their rightful share of the value creation. The will to fight strikers and bus drivers, and not least the overwhelming support they have received in the depths, also shows something else: those who have been given their lives changed to the worse of political decisions, can also take the matter into their own hands and strike back. It's only a year since we celebrated that it's been 100 years since we got a general vote in this country, and that ordinary people could use democracy to fight for their interests. In a year's time, we're going to use the right to create more justice for most people. Red goes to the choice of a clear policy to bring down the differences. Let's go, for example. in the case of a dynasties tax which, at the top – with large assets, dividends and luxury heritage – contributes more to the community. This gets the differences down. As the current report commissioned by the government shows, increased taxes on wealth will actually increase employment. It is directly naive to believe that rules to limit dividends make welfare professionals stop profiting from well-being. Therefore, Red also goes in to get the commercial out of well-being and rather secure well-being together with the private ideal actors. We also want a fair environmental policy that doesn't allow the elite to buy themselves out of the climate, and that is billing to ordinary people and people in the districts. We want to put an end to international wind power capital that is raging Norwegian nature and sending money right out of the country. Yes, Red will help to trap the right hand government next year. But we also remember that the differences in our country have increased under seated governments with other parties in the driver's seat, so in order to get a turning point and bring down the differences in Norway, we must therefore not only be careful to trap the government and believe that parties on the red-green side, which opened up to zero taxes, for buses on offers and for the profit of well-being, fix the steak alone. No, a record choice for Red is the best guarantee not only to change government, but also get a change of direction so that we get down the differences, get a powerful and fair environmental policy and get profit out of well-being. I'm bringing up Redt's 22 proposals, which are a proposal package against Differs-Norway, both to challenge the government's differential policy and to clarify where the other parties stand, one year before the roll-call elections. It is time for the majority in Norway not only to change their lives by politics but also to participate in and create and change policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1299	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to. The President has some doubts as to whether the concept of 'dynasty tax' is in good parliamentary practice. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1308	Korona creates insecurity for health and work, especially for those working in the private sector. We know that oil activity is decreasing, and we still need oil revenues, both to finance well-being and as an economic muscle in the conversion work. At least that means the Workers' Party. The great ability to convert to Norwegian industry consists of day-to-day innovation, based on skilled skilled workers and the ability to work across industries. In order to provide just security for work, we need to build up this everyday innovation and secure jobs and income for the welfare community. I have read that Red acknowledges that the industry is struggling, and that the large locomotives must not stop, but at the same time they have opposed Johan Sverdrup and crisis packages to the supplier industry. So the question is, what does Red mean about industrial policy? Do we not need oil money to finance well-being and secure jobs and conversion, and is not the supply industry for oil and gas one of our most important industrial locomotives?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1315	What we said was that we were in favour of support for the supplier industry, but that the great weakness of the package that was adopted was that it continued an irresponsible environmental policy, as well as an industrial policy laxation. Because what we need, and what we're in favour of, is huge investment in new industries that no private investor will dare to bear, because these are things that will throw off in maybe 10–20–30 years. So we have to bring in a long-term both investor and owner to get up new industry, and that owner and investor is called the state. We want to use some of Norway's huge oil wealth not only to buy up handcuffs in London and Shanghai, but also to invest some of our common wealth in future value creation in Norway, which both secures jobs in Norway and helps reduce emissions. That's the short version of what's in Red's industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1322	Yes, it is quite right that it will take time for conversion, but people need security for work today. And there are important jobs that are now at stake. Then it is a little strange to see, at least for me who come from the West, that Red from Stavanger speaks with one voice in industrial policy, while Red in Oslo may have a different voice in industrial policy. We also know that much of what is going to happen in the future will take a long time, even if we support that the state should both contribute to the increased construction of ships and speedboats and stimulate demand, but the question is, What is the answer to the industrial workers today, who are afraid of losing their jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1331	The answer is a powerful state industrial policy in which we use the large economic muscles that Norway sits on, not only for financial speculation abroad, but also for investment in Norwegian soil. We have a number of measures for this in our programme, both in the crisis programme we joined before the summer, and also in our alternative state budget and in our proposal for a new party programme. What I wish was for the Workers' Party to learn a little bit more from the story they themselves created, that is, with Statoil, which was an industrial venture, and where we also had plans and strategies to ensure that we got employment, technological development, skills jobs on Norwegian soil, on Norwegian soil, and not only allowed foreign companies to take over this, as other countries have done. Then we have to dry again to use the toolbox on which the state sits, and get away from what has been a common business neutral policy from the Workers' Party and the Right, and rather dare to use the muscles available to build new industry. That's what Red goes in for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1338	We know our history in the Workers' Party, but the time we established Statoil, there was demand for oil. Today we do not have finished end-users in terms of hydrogen, ammonia, etc. So the way forward is much longer, so we need to think about a completely different design. And it will take some time to develop a good policy where both hydrogen, ammonia and the new energy carriers will be as strong as the oil industry is today, in terms of how to secure income, value creation and jobs. So the question is once again: those who are at work today, especially in the West and along the whole coast, what does Red signal to them in terms of securing them work – today and for a very short time in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1346	Red is in favour of a number of investments that should and can be made reasonably quickly by the State in order to ensure the mission of the supplier industry. It's about getting a zero-emission ferry, and we want state pilot projects for floating sea winds, which will give jobs to the workers on both Verdal and Stord. We also want to bet much more on CCS than the government is doing, and also on hydrogen as a new energy carrier. So here are a number of projects – that lack one thing, and that's long-term, risk capital, and it sits in the Norwegian community if the politicians go in to spend that money and invest them in value creation rather than passive management on the world's stock exchanges. So we agreed to support the supplier industry when it was being treated in Stortinget. We finally went to the package in its entirety because it was bad in other fields. So we were to support the industry, but against the huge subsidies to the oil companies that were in the package.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1353	I come from beautiful Northland how much is very good, but we also have some challenges with moving away. However, we have a lot of opportunities for development and growth. If those with capital to contribute to this growth are to receive a tax bill from Red and Moxnes of 40 million. kr, there is little to suggest that they are motivated to create new jobs. Does it not see the red value of the value creation taking place in these jobs, and the fact that private capital can actually contribute to new jobs that ensure that the youth returns home, back to Northern Ireland, after completion of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1360	Yes, definitely. Red is pleased with the value the employees make in businesses around the country, i.e. the value creators. Then we're a little less happy that we have a government that lets those who own and take the profits from the employee's values, taxes less than they've done before. It is a problem for the whole nation of Norway and a problem to finance well-being, which is also important to ensure housing, employment and future faith throughout our country. We want, and have gone in favour, a tax level that is about the level that was when Stoltenberg left in 2013. As I remember, there were both businesses, value creation and employment in Norway in 2013, but since then, with the support of the Advance Party, the government has cut the income of the community by tens of billions of dollars, and it has led to under-financing of the well-being of a number of municipalities and counties around the country. We are against that because it in the long run undermines the ability to create value throughout our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1367	Today we have almost 100 pst. the coverage of kindergartens. It's for everyone who wants a kindergarten, and has made more women get out of work. This has helped to reduce inequality and exclusion. Many of these kindergartens have also led to thousands of new private jobs being created. These female entrepreneurs who have created the jobs are referred to by Red as welfare professionals. Does not the Red and the Moxnes value, first of all, see that these jobs are created, and, second, that these women entrepreneurs have contributed to a great social promise by creating these jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1374	Firstly, these female entrepreneurs are very often men. The representative's associates Roger and Kristian Adolfsen, who owns Norlandia, have eaten up very many of the independent, ideal kindergartens that once stood for an important diversity. They are now bought up and merged into heavy, gigantic commercial companies, such as the Norlandia chain and others, often foreign-owned companies, which both weaken diversity, bottle billions of dollars from the community to private profit and undermine the people's tax will. For what happens when people see and experience that their tax money, granted to well-being, is taken in billions from kindergartens, from the care of the elderly, from child protection — to private enrichment for billionaires? It is clear that the tax will of the people is most weakened by the Right's policy of profit in welfare, and we are against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1379	The representative does not answer the questions, but turns it into the Adolfsen brothers. I'm talking about all the thousands of women entrepreneurs who have created jobs for themselves and many others. They are referred to by the representative and his party as welfare professionals. I've known many of these ladies who have spent a lot of their spare time creating a job. They have created a job and have little free time left, and then they are referred to as a profiter. Is it this kind of rhetorical representative Moxnes and Red want to use about these female entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1384	First of all, I corrected what was wrong with the question. For most of the time, it's about male investors who own giant companies that enrich themselves in our kindergartens. The second thing is, I'm just talking facts, not rhetoric. Because if you have a business idea of enriching yourself on publicly funded welfare benefits such as kindergarten, old age care or child protection, and are well-being for profit, you are by definition a welfare profit. It's in the nature of the matter. That someone doesn't tolerate it, in that case, gets to be the Right and the citizen's problem. In addition, those who have started kindergartens for ideal purposes, without having the aim of enriching their operations, are those who are now losing thousands of their right-hand policies in terms of well-being, cf. that we have lost 18,000 ideal kindergartens in ten years and received over 20,000 commercial kindergartens within a few, large chains. Right-wing policies lead to commercial unification and fewer of the female entrepreneurs who seem to care very much about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1391	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1396	The main objective of foreign policy is to safeguard and promote Norwegian interests, our values, our security and our well-being. For Norway to take international responsibility and work to promote committed international cooperation, there is a broad consensus on this at Stortinget, and there is a high priority for the government. So let me now address some of the issues involved. Norway’s membership of the Security Council for the next two years from January will be demanding, but it is in Norwegian interest to defend the UN and international law and to contribute to the management of threats to international peace and security in the Security Council and not bilaterally between the major acts. The legitimacy of the Council rests not least on the elected members. Therefore, it is important that Norway and the Nordic countries are regularly represented around the table when security policy challenges are discussed in the Council. I have sent a letter to the Stortinget asking me to make a statement about our membership of the UN Security Council and the priorities during the fall in order to be able to go deeper into the themes. When the government presents a new North Sea Communication later in the fall, it is because the world has changed significantly since the last North Sea Communication was presented in 2011. International policies are much more marked by major activisation, more nationalism and more pressure on established cooperation institutions and values. We also see that in the north. In such a situation, we want to act wisely and alertly, for the benefit of Norwegian interests. Governments are concerned with an overall approach to Northern Region policy, where the development of the northern part of the country is seen in the context of foreign and security policy. That's why the message will be about the Arctic, about our near northern regions and about North Norway. The United Kingdom is leaving the EU. The transitional period expires at the end of the new year. As of 1 January 2021, therefore, the conditions for our trade with the United Kingdom will change significantly, because the United Kingdom is no longer part of the internal market. When they leave the EU, they also leave the EEA. Together with our EFTA and EEA partners Iceland and Liechtenstein, we are now negotiating a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. The British share our desire to continue as far as possible the trade conditions. The Government has had the main priority of completing a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom to enter into force on 1 January 2021. Negotiations are keeping pace, but some work remains to be done in some areas. The Minister of Industry and I briefed the Storting last at the European Committee meeting on 23 September, and I am going to give a new briefing at the next meeting on 20 October, because of course we are working in parallel with preparing temporary solutions that can apply from 1 January and until the free trade agreement can come into force later in 2021, if we do not reach the goals of the negotiations in time. The negotiations will continue without delay, even if we were not to get to port. However, Norwegian enterprises must be aware that it will in any case be different from that of the EEA. As the NHO says to the media today: trade will continue, but businesses must prepare for the fact that there are completely different rules and procedures, that things will take longer, and that it will cost more. And neither we nor the EU can fully compensate for the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the internal market. We are closely following developments in Belarus. The Belarusian people have shown great courage and endurance over the past few weeks, and we support the fight for democracy. Together with Nordic and European partners, we contribute to actions that promote respect for human rights and democratisation. The EU agreed on restrictive measures against officials in Belarus by Friday, and we have joined it. The OSCE is also running a dialogue trail, and we have joined forces with several other countries to launch the so-called Moscow mechanism. The Belarusian authorities must refrain from violence, release political prisoners and engage in dialogue with the opposition. Finally, quite briefly about Poland. Together with Iceland and Liechtenstein, the government has now sent letters to Poland that EEA funds will not go to LHBTI-ideology-free zones. It's a human right to love whomever you want. That's why we're going to continue to stand up for the rights of LHBTI people in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1422	I would like to thank you for a very good post. We will have the opportunity to discuss several aspects of it today. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for clarifying, on my question, what was Norway's position on such zones as have been introduced in Poland. On this question, we have to be clear in time from the Norwegian side. But I want to ask a question about nuclear disarmament, because this is an area where the world has gone in the wrong direction, since that time both the Foreign Minister and I engaged in politics. Many of the nuclear contracts that were concluded at the time are in disintegration. In 2016, the Storting decided that Norway should have an active role to play in non-proliferation and disarmament. The Foreign Minister and I agree that we should not join the nuclear ban, as the only NATO country, but it is deeply serious when the INF agreement is terminated. My question is: What new initiatives has the Foreign Minister taken to contribute to disarmament, and how can we focus on the humanitarian negative consequences of the use of nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1430	It is an important question because – as I mentioned in my introduction, and as we have discussed in this Chamber before – many of the agreements that carry the disarmament work in many ways in the world are under considerable pressure. That means we're using all the opportunities we have to try to maintain the agreements that are. We've also taken our own initiatives, where what I want to highlight as the most important, and the most successful, is the international leadership we've taken in the field of disarmament verification. This is a crucial point, because if you are unable to verify disarmament, you will not be able to trust that the agreements you may conclude are being fulfilled. Norway has led a group of experts in the United Nations, and we have been able to reach agreement between the countries on the report to that group. This will be the start of a new group of experts, which we will also be chairing. What is unique about this work is that it brings together both nuclear and non-nuclear countries and countries that are in favour of and countries that are opposed to the Prohibition Treaty, and it gives work legitimacy and makes it less polarized.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1435	The matter of verification is important, but this is not a new initiative of this government. This was started in 2007, under then Secretary of State Jonas Gahr Støre, who has done a worthwhile job, followed by today's government. But when we look at the situation today, where there is upgrading, I think that is the basis for new initiatives. Being a driver of non-proliferation and disarmament requires something more than following up initiatives taken in 2007. So my question is, what new initiatives has the government taken, and why does the government not want to be part of the humanitarian initiative? For this, I think it's important, to focus on these weapons and the way they're illegitimate as weapons, because they have so much humanitarian consequences. Why does the Foreign Minister not want to be part of the humanitarian initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1442	The work on disarmament is a very long-term work – I think previous governments have also experienced – and that is one of the reasons why we have intensified work on the verification of disarmament as clearly as we have. We're using a lot of resources on this. We're doing it at the normative level, but we're also doing it at the practical level. We are working very closely with the United Kingdom, Sweden and the United States on practical verification exercises, which are what ultimately will lead to a mechanism that can make the verification credible. I also know that the Storting is concerned that it should be an irreversible, credible and verified disarmament. At the same time, we are involved in many different initiatives. Among other things, we participate in the so-called Stockholm initiative, with 12 other countries, where we work with disarmament initiatives, including verification. But of course, we're also very concerned about the consequences of nuclear weapons, and that's one of the reasons why there's no disagreement in this room that a world free of nuclear weapons is the best. But until we get there, we have to work on what makes progress, and verification is what makes progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1449	On a previous question from the Central Party today, the parliamentary leader of the Right said that it is not as important as owning the Norwegian forest resources. In other words, it is unproblematic for the Right if investors from China or other countries buy up Norwegian natural resources, when these in any case cannot be moved out of the country, as he said. The central party believes that national ownership of infrastructure and natural resources is important, both for national governance, for the development of resources and also for a security policy perspective. In recent years, we have seen an increasingly active China when it comes to the purchase of natural resources and infrastructure in a number of countries. Chinese investors have also bought up in Norwegian companies and tried to buy up on Svalbard, which prevented the government from making a purchase, in 2017. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the sale of Norwegian natural resources and infrastructure does not have any policy implications? Or does the right-hand government also have a limit on which to sell Norwegian natural resources and infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1458	At first, I think it's important to be aware that Chinese engagement, for example. in Norway, there is significantly less in practice than it may seem rhetorical. It is, as the representative says, a significant interest when you look at how the Chinese and other rhetorical people talk about this both in a European context, in an American context and in other contexts. Therefore, unlike many other countries, we have seen relatively little of this type of activity in Norway. That being said, this government has given priority to work on, for example: to be able to prevent purchases and investments that would not be in line with Norwegian security interests by updating the then 20-year-old security law into a new and modern security law. It is a very important tool for Norway, and we see that several countries that have the same old legislation as Norway had now want to look at updates of their legislation. We also follow closely the work done in the EU with screening mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1465	When the government is out commenting on relations with Russia and the United States, I think it's very clear and clear in communication. You don't just walk away and say what you actually mean. Actually, I think there's another picture about China. It seems that the Norwegian government is most concerned about being a little careful and walking around the pike when they are going to comment on this superpower – a superpower that is getting ever more power in the world, and which is also the source of the virus that we now see has shut down an entire world and created enormous challenges for Norway and for other countries. My question is: What initiative has the Norwegian Government taken to put China in charge of what is now happening, and what initiative does the Norwegian Government intend to take to get to the bottom of what has happened to the corona virus and all the consequences it has for the whole world?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1472	I'm a little surprised that the representative Listhaug hasn't got the initiatives we've taken to launch an independent investigation in the World Health Organization of what led to the virus, the outbreak and the spread, and I'm also a little surprised that the representative Listhaug hasn't got what we're doing on human rights and China. The Chinese Minister of Foreign Affairs was here as late as August. Human rights and the very worrying situation both in Xinjiang and Hong Kong were one of the main themes of the meetings and the press conference afterwards. In addition, together with several European countries, both in the Human Rights Council and in the UN General Assembly, we are dealing with exactly the same issues, and we are also taking it bilaterally, directly, with the Chinese. The fact that we now have the opportunity to do that, because we have a normalized relationship and thus can have a political dialogue that we didn't have in six years is, in my opinion, a very good picture that dialogue is a better way to these issues than not having a dialogue. But it surprises me, as I said, that all the initiatives, opinions and criticisms that Norway has made have not reached the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1477	A number of former Norwegian foreign ministers and defence ministers have signed an international appeal to sign the UN's ban on nuclear weapons: Kjell Magne Bondevik, Thorbjørn Jagland, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, Eldbjørg Løwer, Knut Vollebæk and Bjørn Tore Godal. Two former Secretary-Generals of NATO, Javier Solana and Willy Claes, are also on the scene. In an article in the Post of Aften, these former Norwegian State Councils underline their criticism of the current Norwegian line and point out, among other things, that: that the prohibition Treaty does not conflict with the Atlantic Charter by international law, as the government may sometimes have the impression. What has the government understood by Kjell Magne Bondevik, Eldbjørg Löwer and Knut Vollebæk not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1482	As the representative Lightbakken could read in my reply in the evening post, this is about several things. Our NATO membership and the fact that no other NATO country has either signed or ratified the Treaty are to one side of it. What is our main criticism of the prohibition treaty is that it is, among other things, have very weak verification mechanisms, i.e. they are much weaker than the verification mechanisms already in force. We're worried that it'll help undermine the nuclear disarmament work. When we look at the big picture, our very clear impression is that that concern reaches far more than we do. It was, among other things, one of the reasons why the Swedes would neither sign nor ratify. We're running a policy based on a very broad majority of the Stortinget. We have had several debates on this issue in Stortinget, and I registered that the representative Huitfeldt from the Labour Party stressed that there is consensus among all the parties in Stortinget, with the exception of a few, about not signing and ratifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1489	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1494	This article is a greeting to the retirement list. They have been treated unfairly. In recent years, wage earners have increased purchasing power, while purchasing power has decreased. It cannot continue that way. This is what the Workers' Party will fix. With us they would get the average of the wage and price growth in society. It would amount to several thousand more dollars in annual payments if we had received a pass. To the least common pensioners in particular, I want to say, we know that it's hard for you when they don't have anyone to share the expenses with. We want to increase your payments every year. For 2020 we proposed NOK 4000 more as a start, but the right-hand side voted us down. We're not going to stop for you. This installation is also a greeting for the bus drivers. First, I want to say thank you for your strike. What they do, they apply to pay and work conditions for everyone, not just to your professional group. If anyone in Norwegian working life gets too little, it also propagates to other professional groups, and it is a solidarity fight they have fight. The Labour Party is not directly involved in wage negotiations, it is between the social partners, but I want to say this: it is grossly unfair that the leaders feel almost ten times as much as they do. It can't continue like this, it's not Norway we want. The richest have to pay more in taxes, and those, ordinary workers, have to pay less, because they have to keep more of the wages themselves. They will get more in trade union deductions, more in commuting deductions, and they will not experience a fee gap, as carried out by the Right, where the fees have increased by nearly 6 billion. kr in the last few years. This article is also a greeting to the nurses. They have our front line to the entire Norwegian community under the Coronapandemy. They've been given a good applause. Now they have to get better working conditions. It applies both to those working in municipalities and to those working in hospitals. Our health and care services need more money for day-to-day operations, so they can get the basic staff up. We need policy-makers who want to invest in more full-time and fixed-term work, that it is safe and sustainable for workers, and less in part-time work and temporary contracts. It'll be the Workers' Party to take care of. Instead, we see that many municipalities are budgeting that the health care providers are not getting an increase in pay because the municipalities are not getting enough money from the right government. Several hospitals also report that they have a strained economy, which goes beyond operations. I think Norway is a great country. That there are small differences between people, is worth taking care of. Opportunities and influence for workers over the everyday life, it is worth fighting for, and none of the parts is a self-evident thing. There is no political party that would say that they are small differences, but not all parties are willing to do what is necessary to bring the differences down. Right shows time and time again that they are too rich and not too common people – when we now also see that the richest people in Norway can tax as little as 90–170 of every thousand dollars they spend, while a nurse can tax almost twice every thousand dollars they spend. During the last seven years, the trade union deduction has remained silent, while the stock discount of those who have money to place has increased. Under Erna Solberg, the richest in the country have been even richer, while the poorest households are left sitting with less money than before. We have also seen this – the same pattern – when the right government has come with crisis measures during the coronary apathy. The working party, together with the other opposition party, has proposed a better income hedge and we have achieved a positive impact. We have proposed limits on the exchange and pay gap, but unfortunately we were downhearted. Our promise to the voters into 2021 is that the Labour Party will ensure safe work for everyone. That's job number one. We're going to make sure that a stronger welfare state, which is there when you need it, no matter where you live, no matter what kind of economic background you have. And it's true whether you're a pensioner, a bus driver or a nurse, whether you're at work, want to work, or need the well-being that people in work create. We in the Labour Party are going to fight for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1515	The head of the Joint Alliance has said well: ‘We need to have a business life with conditions that make business make money.’ He also points out that we need to create to share. At a time when nine out of ten lay-offs are in the private sector, at a time when industrial and industrial workers are aware of an uncertainty, the Workers' Party is calling for a larger public sector at the expense of private business. They call for the reversal of important reforms that save society tens of billions, which we can once again use to build a good welfare state and secure the population. How does the representative Tajik himself think that the Workers' Party's new, alerted move towards left rhymes with the challenges of industry and industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1522	Traditional Labour Party policy has been proposed by the Labour Party. There is no reason why the representative, Mr Kapur, should present it as something else. If he is a member of the Joint Union, as you know private industry well, they can also tell him how important it is to have good public welfare in a community, so that even private industry can want to get up there. There is also some reason why we see how our districts and communities are framed around the country when the rule of law pursues a policy of centralisation that destroys public services. It makes it less attractive for private operators to look up and create jobs, because they also need a Nav office where they can provide the workers with the help they need if necessary. They also need a tax office to follow along and follow up if there is to be tax evasion or other information that needs to be properly followed up. There is a link between investing in public welfare and securing private growth and wealth and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1527	First, I have to say that it is touching to hear the commitment to criticise the pension reform that the Workers' Party itself introduced, and where the Progress Party was the only party that voted against. But I'm going to talk a little bit about the inheritance fee, which the Progress Party made sure to remove, and which made many people breathe out. Many then left to borrow money from the bank or withdraw money from the company to pay this tax on death. If it changes next year, it looks dark. Red and SV will reintroduce it, the Central Party criticised the Advance Party to remove it too quickly, a criticism we otherwise live well with, and the Workers' Party's party program does not say anything about inheritance fees. What does the Workers' Party really mean? I can guarantee that as long as the Progress Party has something to say, the inheritance fee, or the tax on death, will never come back. Can the representative Tajik guarantee that the inheritance fee will not be reintroduced if they come to power next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1536	I can clarify the Labour Party's policy when it comes to inheritance fees, and it's that it's not part of our policy, so it's not in our party program this time either. It wasn't in our previous party program either. I have to say that I am not so impressed with the fact that the Progress Party is going around and critical of the effects of the pension reform. Now they have either been a government seat or a government support party for the last seven years, and what have they actually done for pensioners? What have they actually done to ensure that pensioners have less access to pensions today, while employees have more access to them? The Labour Party has presented a very concrete proposal that would make a significant contribution to the regulation of pensions. It would mean several thousand more in annual payments to today's pensioners, and the Progress Party has been saying no to that. Instead, they have chosen to spend almost a billion more on actual property taxes in 2020 to some of the richest in the country. That billion they should have spent on the retirement list. The Labour Party would have done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1543	It's interesting that you talk about everything else than what I'm asking. I asked if you could guarantee that you should not reintroduce the inheritance fee. I recorded that I did not receive any response. With regard to underregulation, the Progress Party today promotes a proposal to do something about it – remove the underregulation introduced by the Workers' Party in its time. Something that also affects pensioners hard is the charging policy, and we see that the Workers' Party should participate in a cooperation where one party is more tax-and-tax-smooth than the other. My question is simply: what is the policy of the Workers' Party in this area, and how should Norwegian pensioners prepare for a cooperation where they want to increase the tax burden by a total of billions of dollars? Then it helps very little to get a few dollars back in the form of a pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1554	I explained the Workers' Party's position on the inheritance fee already in my first answer, so I want to encourage the representative Listhaug to listen better after. When it comes to pensioners, one knows that with the Workers' Party's income tax arrangements, nine out of ten pensioners will be taxed less than they received with the right. It is clear that having a large asset, regardless of who it is, one way to pay more in taxes will contribute more to the community. But it's also about having a fair tax policy. The Progress Party has done while they have their seat in government, and while they have our support party, it's increasing what's the biggest burden for ordinary people and ordinary pensioners' wallets, that's the fees, by over $6 billion. kr. I think it is free from the representative Listhaug to stand here and try to take a sort of specter with the government's tax policy when it is the Progress Party itself that has its seat in the Ministry of Finance and drive it forward, which has the framework of ordinary people and ordinary pensioners' wallets quite hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1561	Greater inequality is an increasing problem also in terms of preparedness. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has now realised that the so-called near-police reform, which they were supporting, has failed. The representative Gahr Støre pointed out in his speech that the police have now withdrawn from District Norway, and that a great job needs to be done in the future to provide for a police station where people live. The Central Party believes that people, no matter where they live, are required to have their security taken care of by an on-site and visible police force, a police force with knowledge of their community, that a real close-up police force requires a strengthening of the County Police Offices and police stations throughout the country, and that many municipalities now have to restore the Länsmann Office if we are to have a real close-up police force. Nor will it be possible without a requirement for a shorter response time. Can we now count on the Workers' Party to support the Centre Party in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1566	One needs a police force with stronger local presence and clearer local anchoring. I agreed to negotiate the agreement on police reform. An important part of the agreement was that we would have just local anchoring, and we would have thorough local processes for the changes that the police were going through. I am very disappointed that the right-wing government has not implemented the local anchoring that Storting had expected and that Storting had imposed on them. It has weakened the full implementation of the police reform, and there is some reason why one today does not have a police force with the local presence for which the Labour Party has worked and wanted. It is clear that the Labour Party also wants a cage in any country to be able to trust you to get help when you need it. Then, too, response time is important, but even more important than falling down on a paper what time the police are going to be a place, is to make sure that one has enough policemen with enough resources to actually do that job, and that's what the Labour Party will secure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1571	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1576	Norway is at a turning point. The virus and the economic crisis that has followed it have created major problems, but not just new ones. Even before the pandemic, we talked about dark clouds in the horizon, but now it's no longer quiet before the storm. The Korona crisis is far from over, and the crisis has come to a new stage. In the future, we need to continue the necessary transformation of the Norwegian economy while managing the effects of the pandemic. We must continue to create more jobs, we must carry out the green shift, we must continue the education promise, and we must continue the inclusion virtue, so that those who are currently outside the labour market come into the labour market. The various corona and crisis packages of billions have been necessary. Although it has been quite right to spend money saving jobs and families, it is also essential that we focus on creating more jobs and getting more people back to work in the future. Only in that way will future generations have a at least as good toolbox as we've met with this pandemic. The Korona crisis led to almost 300,000 unemployed during the night. Although unemployment has been greatly reduced since April, there are still difficult and uncertain times for many. The way out of the crisis is therefore about creating more and including more. We need to create new jobs and get people back to work. The Labour Party's response to challenges as far as the debate is concerned is the same as before: the reversal of reforms, stagnation and increased taxes and charges and the fight against private actors. We can't afford that, because while the revenue from oil and gas goes down, we're getting older, and we're giving birth to fewer children. That is, we are getting fewer in work to fund a worthy care for the elderly for more, while at the same time slowly, but surely losing the income from our undoubtedly most profitable industry. That means that the public has to spend money in a smarter way than before. Urban reform, the red tape reform and the rail reform are examples of measures that allow the State to save money in one place and spend money on warm hands in healthcare and good educators elsewhere. This is reforming the left side is against it. Another example is Nye Veier AS. By establishing a private company that works exclusively with road construction, the state has the potential to save about 60 billion. kr. And then here it's unclear what the left-hand side wants. Norway needs policies that facilitate and do not restrict economic growth. After all, it's all business that creates the values to be distributed later. Then we can't increase taxes and give business more regulation, as the Labour Party and the Left will. Despite the fact that everyday life may begin to resemble a kind of normal state, this normal state is far away from many of Norway's businesses and their employees. For the travel, cultural and export industries, the crisis is far from over. This means that even though we are now presenting action packages, and even if there is a government budget to be adapted to the economic situation, we need to be clear that there may be a need to make more adjustments. Then we have said that we should do what is needed. In Norway, we have been through hard times before, and we have done so together. If we're going to continue to have a society with opportunities for everyone in the future, we have to do what we've always done to really raise Norway. It is to ensure that children do not fall out of the education cycle and that their parents are part of the working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1598	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1603	Many of those who serve at least in society – like the bus drivers who have been on strike, like the kindergarten assistants who take care of our children – have lost purchasing power in recent years. Living has become more expensive, but the wages they are going to live on have not followed the growth in prices. Our pensioners, who have built up the world's best country to live in, have lost purchasing power, while the 1 pst. The wealthiest in Norway has become much richer, while paying at least in taxes. And in the state and in the state companies, we see a backward leadership pay gap – still new directors and top executives with millions of wages, a Vy director who makes 5.5 million. kr, a director of State Building, who increases the salary by 164 000 SEK in only one year. Is the Right Representative surprised that right-wing policy is increasing differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1608	This could have been an interesting debate if the premise for the question was correct. Right-wing policies do not contribute to increasing differences. Let me first take the pensioners. The minimum pension has been increased three times by the bourgeois majority, although the Workers' Party today is beating its chest with its proposal. The main difference between those who earn a lot, and those who earn a little, is to be part of the working life. That is why this government has been investing in inclusion. That is why this government has been committed to an integration policy, so that more people learn Norwegian and get to work. That's why this government is betting on an education promise, so that people go to school and get a job afterwards. We'd like to count the management fees. But it doesn't help those who are out of work, and that's what right-wing policy has been about, together with our civil partners over the last seven years. So the premise for the representative's question is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1617	All of us living in Norway are incredibly lucky. We live in a country built on the social-democratic model of society — a strong welfare state with safe economic governance, which enables us to face business in difficult times. But we're also at a crossroads. The differences in the country are increasing, and what we have seen from the Right at the national meeting is that their main project there was to contribute to 25 000 new zero-tax payers. Then I don't trust Erna Solberg. What we also see, is that the right-hand side agrees with our proposals on a total review of government management wages to clean up. So what have you actually done in the last seven years to clean up leadership wages in the state and in the fight against increased differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1624	The President recalls that the speech should be addressed to the President and not to the counter-debatetant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1629	I can keep going where I left off. Work on increasing disparities has been an important effort and strategy for government. That's exactly why we've made sure to invest more in education, so that children get through school. It's the most important arena to balance social differences. That's why, despite the fact that there has been an increase in immigration, we have made sure that we have an integration policy that makes those that most often top the inequality statistics become part of the working life and of the statistics where people equalise the social differences. That is why we continue to invest in Norwegian ownership and jobs through a tax policy that makes it profitable to create jobs in Norway and to stand up for Norwegian jobs. The property tax debate – we would like to take it if we had more time. But briefly I would say that lowering the property tax on working capital is about protecting Norwegian ownership and being on the team with the Norwegian business owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1638	The representative Kapur said in his post that it is unclear what the left-hand side wants, and what are the solutions of the left-hand side, and I fully agree with that. At the same time, the Progress Party is most concerned about what we, on the non-socialist side, will and can do. Now there is a great need to facilitate new jobs and at least not to remove the jobs that have already been created despite the crisis we are experiencing. An example of this is in the trade in goods. We know that there are many thousands of new jobs that have come into existence because the border trade is so to speak zero. Then there is a question of how we can contribute to the continuation and maintenance of those jobs by reducing taxes on goods placed on the market. Then is my challenge to the representative Kapur: Will the Right be with the Progress Party in ensuring that we reduce fees so that we can maintain and continue the thousands of new jobs we have received during this crisis period?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1647	The answer to all the questions that Mr Limi has, he will probably not get until the budget is available and we are going to negotiate on it, but there is also a lively debate about the level of charges for border products in the Right. We have recently presented a draft programme in which we wanted to address that debate, and I want to say that although the debate is going to take place in the right-wing context, we have also, through the negotiations we had on the revised national budget just before the summer, and the crisis package that was then, adjusted some of the fees a little bit down or back to a previous level. Then we'll see what the government budget brings when it comes this week. I look forward to the negotiations with the Progress Party, without promising anything in a row.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1656	Local authorities have increased their claims and expenditures under the Right in government, without corresponding increases in revenue. The government therefore imposes on municipalities expenditure and refuses to compensate by increasing revenue. In the summer, the County of Telemark and Vestfold sent out a letter on behalf of the government asking the municipalities to cut off services in the event of structural changes and to assess municipal mergers, i.e. that the government – through the county – asks the municipalities to carry out municipal mergers, asks them to lay down schools, to lay down kindergartens, to lay down nursing homes. My question is: can the Right's fiscal figure confirm that it is the Right's and the Government's official policy to use municipal economy as an instrument for setting up schools, kindergartens and hospitals around the country and forcing municipal mergers, as the County Council's letter states?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1665	The government's and Right's policy for local economy is to strengthen the Norwegian municipalities so that they get financial muscles and the means to make their own free choices. This is precisely why the local economy has become stronger under this government. In fact, it was.no who did a little check on this claim from the Central Party that the municipalities have got a worse economy, and what you could conclude is that you actually have to go back to the last millennium to see a better local economy than under this government. The ROBEK list has never looked better than under this government. We believe that the municipalities agree on good solutions, also through the municipal reform that was. Therefore, it was based on volunteering, except in areas where it was necessary to provide good structures and solutions. There is something very large in size, unfortunately not together with the Center Party, and I believe that a stronger municipal economy over seven years is a good result from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1672	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1678	Thousands in Norway are on leave or have lost their jobs. Many businesses around the country are struggling heavily, and many are worried about the future. One of the most important things we have to do in the future is create jobs. Close borders with Sweden indicate the potential if Norway pursues a charging policy that is more adapted to the level we see in our neighbouring country. The result is actually absolutely amazing. Shops near the border have had up to 75 pst. growth on the market. The growth in the sales of beverages, both with and without alcohol, has increased markedly. Several poles in border areas have had sales growth of more than 100 pst. And it's probably like whether you buy the alcohol in Norway or in Sweden, the danger is the exact same. The content is essentially the same thing. The Norway team alone employs more than 2000 temporary staff. Now, of course, they're worried if they can keep their work ahead of them. These are jobs for those who have a hole in the CV. These are jobs for those without training, for all those who are struggling to get into the labour market. Those who want to make the most of reducing the fees are people in the West – people who are far away from the border with Sweden and who cannot travel to act in everyday life. Have we not sponsored the Swedes enough – with tax credits, with jobs? By cutting taxes, we can now create over 7 000 new jobs in Norway. Is that possible? Yes. Look at Denmark. Denmark has reversed the trend. They have reduced the charges against Germany, and we see that this has reduced the trade leakage that was above the border. Some politicians have talked about this with public health. Well, the experience from Denmark is at least that consumption has fallen. This is simply because you have stopped hamstering and buying much more than you need. It's like everyday life that you've bought a lot of chocolate and it's in the closet, it's easy to go and get a piece of it. If you don't have it in your house, but if you buy it when you need it, you eat less chocolate. That's why cutting taxes and getting less border trade will actually be good for people's health. The children are the dearest thing we have. I met a family with a little girl in two years called Isabella. She was born with a deadly disease called Tay-Sachs, and the children who are born with this serious illness are likely to die before they are four years old. The family, who lives in the municipality of Hustadvika in More and Romesdal, has fought against the municipality, formerly Fränna, for years. The parents are completely worn out because of a lack of help, and what they asked for was simply to get relief at night. The response from the municipality has now been to place Isabella in a nursing home – a two-year-old girl in a nursing home – against the will of the parents. The whole thing is simply to laugh at. We have seen several things about the same thing: children – young children – who are placed in a nursing home against their will. It's time to put an end to this. That's why I hope a majority in this room is with the Progress Party to put in place a change in law, so that no municipality can place people between 0 and 50 years of age in a nursing home against their or their parents' will. Suddenly one day, one of us could be sitting here in the hall, in a situation like this. It's not worth it, and that's why it's time to put a dot for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1695	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1700	In a short time, the taxi industry in Norway will be completely liberalised. The progress party has been in the process of doing this, and in reality anyone who wants can drive taxis in Norway as of 1 November. For example, it will. no longer be required to be associated with taxi centres and other conditions to which the taxi industry has so far been subject. The liberalisation of the taxi industry weakens the safety of the labour market for those who currently have their daily activities in the industry, and strong urban and rural protests, particularly from rural areas, have come about by fear of the taxi offer in the future. Drose owners and taxi drivers all over the country have protested. My question to Sylvi Listhaug is: What is it that the Progress Party has understood about this liberalisation of the taxi industry that employees in the industry have not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1707	Now what we have understood is that many of the passengers, the customers of the taxi industry in Norway, have for a long time been dissatisfied with the offer that has been made. We have been in a situation where we have had a lack of competition, where there have been high prices, and where there has simply been a lack of an offer that is good enough. That is why the Progress Party wants to do something about it and to help create a system that actually makes it better for passengers to be able to take taxis, and where we also have the hope that prices may go down. I understand that the Workers' Party is not so busy with the passengers. It's in a familiar style. Nor are they interested in patients, whether they are in a nursing home or in health care. Everything is just going to go into an A4 box. But we want competition, and we also want to take care of customers – the passengers in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1714	Now no country has liberalised the taxi industry where the result has been better and cheaper services for travellers. In the past, it was such that taxi owners and taxi drivers were – I think I would say – the nuclear electors of the Progress Party. Many voted in favour of the Advancement Party. Now there's almost no one left. I assume that the representative Listhaug also takes taxis quite often – almost no one is left in the Progress Party, because they are furious at the policy pursued by the Progress Party and who will erase the serious part of the taxi industry in the worst case. I ask again the question: Also the few Frps who are left, and who work in the industry, take a strong distance from what the Progress Party is now doing. It's an industry that's knee-drenched, and it's got a lot of problems. If we don't make sure that industry is up and running, yes, we'll get a worse taxi offer around our country. I ask again the question: what is the Progress Party that the taxi drivers, who rage over the Advance Party policy, have understood not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1725	It is always that when you implement changes, there will be resistance to it. That is why I understand very well that many taxi drivers are now worried about the changes that are coming. The Progress Party believes that this will help to strengthen industry in the long term and contribute to, hopefully, a good basis for living from this industry. So it's that the nuclear pickers of the Progress Party, whether they're taxi drivers or something else, are usually concerned with a lot of different things. Therefore, it is important to say to the nuclear electors, whether they are taxi drivers or something else, that we should have tax pressure down, not up, as the Workers' Party wants, that we should pursue a tight immigration policy and an integration policy that demands, and not wing away, as the Workers' Party wants, that we should invest in a health and elderly care sector where private entries are allowed to choose, even if we do not have a thick wallet, and that we should reduce the use of money for both quota refugees and assistance. That's what I think I'm going to win a reverberation in a lot of a taxi driver.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1732	The representative of Listhaug spoke in his post on border trade and charges. If there is one thing that remains after the Progress Party has either been in the government or our support party since 2013, it is that the fees in Norway have increased. The fees haven't increased by any hundred million. The fees have increased by several billion dollars every year – charges for non-alcoholic beverages, sugar levies. The fees have been turned up. One has suggested taxes that have a way to go back on, such as plastic bag tax. The representative, Mr Listhaug, tried himself as Minister of Justice even at the death penalty. There was also a stop in Stortinget. My question is, what is the Progress Party that they didn't understand over the last seven years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1737	So now the Progress Party has gone out of government, simply because we weren't satisfied with the results we got. We reduced taxes and taxes by 23 billion. kr. We are in the process of reversing some of the increases that we had in government that we strongly disagreed with, among other things. the sugar levy. I can promise the representative Pollestad that there will be more when we start negotiations on the state budget. The representative Pollestad, on the other hand, has a much bigger problem, because after next year's elections he will go into company, if the election results are that way, with the biggest tax collectors in this country, stretching from the Workers' Party to the extreme, where MDG and Red are located. When the centre party now tries and as later as they are for lower charges, they are simply in the wrong bed, because the friends they are supposed to be with will have something quite different from what the center party wants. Then it usually does not work as well in a marriage, so I recommend that they change their pasturage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1742	The representative, Listhaug, spoke of that not all the Progress Party had been put into effect while they were in government. It makes me curious about one of the areas that the representative then thought about is that new figures now show that the 3,700 richest, the super-rich, in Norway are paying a tax percentage that is half what people with average wages in Norway pay – that is, that most people, a nurse or a teacher, have to pay a much larger share of their income in taxes than what the top ones at the top pay. Is it part of what the Progress Party, as it has been with the Minister of Finance for many years, feels like its policy, or is it perhaps some of what you felt was not overtaken to a large extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1747	The Progress Party is pleased that we reduced the tax burden in Norway by 23 billion. kr, but we would like to see that it was even more – and we're going to work to make it. Because what the Progress Party realizes, as SV has never understood, is that if you're going to be able to have a good welfare system, you have to have someone who creates values. You have to have private companies with owners who invest their own money, who see that it's worth spending that money on creating jobs for others. That's why the property tax, which you're criticising, is very stupid, simply because it punishes Norwegian owners, which we want more, and then those who are foreign-owned, don't pay this tax. In the case of increasing differences, the SV's policy is a driver, because in any case SV wants to increase immigration to Norway. There are never limits to how many you want to input. We see that reports show that increasing immigration is what gives rise to increasing differences, so at least there is no policy for the SV of believers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1760	Seven years of Erna Solberg have our seven years of centralization. It has been the centralization of public services, money and power have been moved, municipalities and county municipalities have been removed more or less randomly, the governance of state corporations has been filled by people from the capital area. There's centralization on all fronts, and there's nothing the Center Party has invented. There's something people around Norway know about in their everyday lives. And centralization is not alone, because when the workspaces are moved, when the units have been large, there is a blank space to fill. It is filled with rules and supervision. It's being filled with red tape. It starts with centralization, and it ends with bureaucracy. And when it has been hurt, difficult and bureaucratic, yes, then the road lies open to privatisation. That's how they hang together, these three. It is not possible to be in favour of centralisation and against bureaucracy, but it is not possible to fight a fight against privatisation if not at the same time a fight against centralisation. For the Central Party, this will be an important year. We will lay the basis for an industrial policy to bring the whole country into operation. We want to use the state more actively in business policy. But that doesn't mean we don't recognize the private ownership. Private ownership is still the most important ownership in Norway, and we are going to lay down a plan, and we are going to come up with concrete policies to stimulate the conditions for small enterprises in Norway. We need to strengthen the social systems, we need a targeted policy, and we need to work together between municipalities and businesses to develop small businesses across the country. The centre party will strengthen the aquaculture industry and we believe that it is an important commitment for coastal communities to have their share of the value creation. There's been a bit of pathetic magic in the last year, because after the Great Council's decision, the coastal communities would have had income in 2020 and 2021 of 4.8 billion. kr. The government will give it $3 billion. kr. So they take 1.5 billion. kr from the coastal communities and calls it a gift. It's like one person's out and going to lose two 500 notes. You find these two 500-notes, stack one in your pocket, give the other back and expect a thank you because you were so kind. That's the way this government handles the coastal communities. When it comes to fisheries policy, we need some clarification. We should get them last year. We've only got new questions. The central party will be based on the National Audit Office's brilliant clear report and will develop a policy to achieve the objectives set by the Stortinget and not follow the confused policy adopted by the Government Party and the Progress Party in relation to the quota notification. When it comes to agriculture, there is a need to strengthen agriculture throughout the country. What we have experienced with the government party is that they think everything is joy and fun. It's not a concern. Yes, if you don't see the problem, you can't solve it either. Investment in small and medium-sized Norwegian farms is needed if we are also to have an agricultural holding in the whole country in the future. Strengthening preparedness will also be important for the Central Party. We will be working this year to set up a new soil protection target, and we will work to ensure that Stortinget finally makes a clear decision on the establishment of emergency storage – and in particular the emergency storage of cereals. I'm recording that many from the government party who are standing on this pulpit are very happy with the developments they see. But if there's one on Stortinget's pulpit and you look out over Norway, what one sees of Norway, yeah, then maybe it's not that bad. But from Stortinget's pulpit there is neither a view of the Gudbrand valley nor of the Groruddalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1779	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1784	I'm going to ask a very specific question to the representative Pollestad, because Pollestad spoke very well about industrial policy in general and agricultural policy in particular. Very many people who work in Norway do not have a good enough pension. A lot of people in the private sector have to work a lot before they earn a pension. This applies, for example: Part-time jobs in agriculture, on which Pollestad was heavily involved, relate to many small jobs, and to young people. The Workers' Party has previously proposed the introduction of a right to a pension from the first krona also in the private sector. The last time we discussed it, it was a little unclear where the centre party stood – until the last vote. That is why I ask for safety: will Pollestad and the Central Party support our proposal No. 18 to make sure people have a pension from the first heads?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1789	I thank you for the question. I think one of the most important food policy tools we have in Norway is small differences between people. It's the Center Party and the Workers' Party very few about it. When a person mentions the level of salary in agriculture, I believe that there must be a long-term job to bring in more Norwegian labour, and that must also be done by increasing the income of those who work in agriculture. When it comes to the question of pension from the first dollar, I don't understand that there was disagreement between the Labour Party and the Center Party in the previous round. We had a slightly different approach to that in the discussion, but that the Center Party supports the principle and wants that in Norway there should be a pension from the first penny, there should be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1796	In driving industrial development in districts, it is important to have safe and good communities. The police reform is judged north and down by the Center Party, yet we see police districts reporting more resolved issues, better equipment, shorter response time, etc. Some measures have been taken with central units, first dealing with the interaction of competences, not gathering in one place. For example, in Troms. ICT exploration combined in units but scattered around the districts. New organisation shows that you get more support and help and are more visible in the first line. In today's Northern Lights we can read that in Nord-Troms the central party rapporteur in Lyngen reports that the reform has been a success: finally, we see the police when we need them, and the response time has fallen considerably. They used to be just a few hours in an office. Now you finally get the help when you need it. The head of police said: ‘All measurable parameters show that both preparedness, visibility and police services have improved considerably.’ What does Pollestad think about the experience of Nord-Troms and that his own rapporteur believes that the reform is good?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1807	As I said in my post, I think one of the problems of today's government party and their supporting party is that they don't recognize the problems, and when you don't recognize the problems, you can't solve them either. When you stand here and make it like the near-police reform is the only great success – I don't think you need to be around the country to notice that there are definitely many critical voices that are different in it. When it applies to the spokesman in Lyngen and to the essay in Nordlyn, which I also cost myself for breakfast today, I will also add that the spokesperson asked: Can we be the exception that confirms the rule? I think it's a long way from here to say that the spokesman in Lyngen is. There is no doubt that the near-police reform has given rise to centralisation, nor has it been followed up with the necessary financial resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1814	The representative Pollestad said we're going into an important year. At the same time, we have a red-green side in Norwegian policy that cracks in every direction. I agree with the representative on the importance of targeted policies. The centre party has ambitions about government power and will most likely depend on the SV and the Environment Party of the Greens if the dreams are to be realized. The working party also has a tradition of fulfilling the wishes of the two parties. The Swedish Environment Party and the Greens are attacking Norwegian food production with meat-free managers and charging for Norwegian food production, to mention something. Is the representative Pollestad comfortable going into such a government, which will then, to those degrees, create challenges for Norwegian farmers, or will Pollestad provide some guarantees that the Central Party will cancel the SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens' Symbol Policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1829	I thank you for the question. When the Progress Party is talking about partners, I think one should listen very carefully, because it's obvious that they've been in a marriage with someone who hasn't worked very well, so it has to be assumed that they're experts. What surprises me is that after the Progress Party left this government, they seem to log even more for the government party as a supporting party. The representative, Mr Strifeldt, seems to enjoy more in the role of a supporting party than in the role of a government party. When it comes to the Central Party, we are going to vote for the highest possible mandate for our party programme. We will be careful to cooperate with people who stand so far away from us. Where the Progress Party has not had any inhibitions, we are observant of that problem, and I'm pretty sure that with the Center Party in government, people will be allowed to eat whatever they want for dinner, from Monday to Sunday.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1838	It would have been tempting to go into that polemic at the end, where the Progress Party stands and finds out the politics of SV, but we're dropping it. We'll stick to it. In many areas, the Centre Party and SV share policies. In particular: Over the last few years, we have become closer and closer to the fisheries policy when it comes to the distribution of the amazing resources in the sea. But it's a problem that I'm really looking at, and that's the distribution between the different fleet groups. The National Audit Office's report shows that coastal communities have suffered a massive loss of government's fisheries policy over a long period of time. From the point of view of the SV, there is now a need to reverse the fisheries policy, so that it is the coast that gets a greater share of the wealth. Is the Center Party in agreement with SV in that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1845	I mean that we're focusing on the things we basically have in common, and therefore I don't need to remind SV of a charging policy that will definitely harm the fishing industry. When it comes to our commitment to the Norwegian fishing fleet, I believe that we have in common that we want to strengthen the coastal fleet, that we want to strengthen the fishing communities along the coast. I think the most important thing we can do in the future is to take the report we have now received from the National Audit Office, the measures and assessments that are there, and to work actively together with how we can develop a concrete policy that both takes care of the needs of those who have invested and that makes resources off the coast contribute to the creation of value in individual communities. I am absolutely sure that we will be able to have good and constructive discussions on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1851	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1856	Today started in a very interesting way. We got a report from the Frischsenteret and the Centres for Tax and Behavioral Research, which shows that cuts in property taxes do not lead to value creation and increased employment. The analysis from the Freshhouse actually shows that cut in wealth tax has a negative effect on employment. In other words, the main focus of government and the right-hand side of the field over the last seven years is not industrial policy. I repeat, a cut in wealth taxes is not an industrial policy. And this happens with a rug where the pandemic has triggered a major crisis in Norwegian business. There's a lot of people who are already unemployed, and there's a lot of people who might even be unemployed. And then the main bet of the government is still cut in the wealth tax, which is proven to lead to the opposite, i.e. less employment. It's pretty eye-catching. And when there's no business policy, what is it? Well, that's a very different policy. The myth that the right-hand side is good at industrial policy can be put to death. On the other hand, the right side has unlimited amounts of both policy and money for owners in business, but not for value creation, not for how to create new future-oriented jobs, not for workers. For seven years, they have been leading a policy of moving large values into wallets to the richest. In the same period, we have become increasingly dependent on the oil industry. The export-oriented industry wears out in a situation where everything would allow for future bets. It is only when the Storting has pressed through multiple numbers that forward-looking food projects have been prioritised, such as green shipping, floating sea wind, battery industry, hydrogen production, bio-industry and CCS. They are well behind the strategy for achieving climate change targets and industrial policy failures, but have managed to create record billionaires and record children growing up in poverty. That's quite impressive. Seven lost years are behind us. Now, in the last plenary debate before a roll call, it's time to look ahead. SV is selected at a level for the conversion of the Norwegian economy and an industry that cuts climate change emissions, builds new jobs, reduces differences between high and low, city and country – in short: cut, build, parts – a green new deal. It's a formidable task, which unfortunately has become even bigger with the government's paralysis of action. But if we're going to do this, the state has to use the entire toolbox and turn it in the direction of cutting, building and sharing. We need to turn the tool, the export strategies and the purchasing policy so that it becomes part of the solution. We need to distort fiscal and monetary policy so that the money is put into action for distribution and climate. We have to turn laws and rules to create a transition to a circular economy. We need to build new transport and energy infrastructure for zero-emission transport and electrification of Norway. We need to put in place an active employment policy to ensure that the competences currently attached to oil and gas are transferred to new national industrial ventures and secure work for all. We have to bet properly on floating sea winds, battery production, green shipping, hydrogen and bio-industry. Once I've done SV's plan for Storting, the right-hand side has tried to ridicule it. But since that time even has the NHO drawing order for the exact same thing. They want an active state that has a plan. Are we going to see a plan to convert the Norwegian economy from the government after eight years? Hardly, because they don't seem to take it sufficiently seriously. It's elections next year. We don't have time or money for more parties among the richest. It's serious now. We have a job to do on the left-hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1871	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1876	In the post of the representative he was, among other things, in the field of employment. The labour market that we have today continues to be strongly influenced by the coronary crisis. An excessive proportion is left without the secure, regular job to go to. We have heard from the right-hand side today that work should be the most important priority. Nevertheless, the number of people on the labour market today is lower compared with the same time last year, although there are twice as many unemployed. Then I wonder, what will SV do to prevent the unemployment we see in society today, now will bite itself to pieces, so that people don't have the safe, steady job to go to in the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1881	I share the criticism from the representative on the right. Here we are in a situation where the unemployment can actually get stuck in the Norwegian community, and then they have no plan for how to make sure that they stop the negative development. Rather, they seem to count more money, or have a casual relationship with strategies and measures, such as wealth taxes, which lead to the opposite of solving the problem. We in SV have presented a large document – a green new deal, as we have called it – a kind of people's green shift, where participation in working life, work for everyone, is a very central ingredient. We believe that we are now going into a time when – if we are to cope with the enormous task of transforming the Norwegian economy into a renewable and circular society – we need all the hands we have in society to work. For this reason, we would like to introduce different forms of job guarantees, both towards those who are most exposed in the workplace, and towards different types of skills strategies, so that those who need to fill up for the new society can come along.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1888	The representative says that SV is going to switch to change, but a sustainable society requires that we make the best possible use of the community's resources. SV has – at a price – problematicated the exposure of the Norwegian economy to oil, but mainly through investment in the oil fund. But few talk about the need to disconnect the public sector and the welfare state from the oil revenues, which, apart from the oil fund, is 245 billion. kr in direct revenue of the State budget. No other industry is as profitable as the oil industry. We must succeed in replacing oil workplaces with other value-creating jobs. But we also need to be able to do more too little to maintain today's welfare level. When SV is talking about cutting to build and benefit, they are against all reforms, among other things. The rail reform, which is now saving us 1.2 billion by way of competitive outsourcing. kr annually, which is little compared to building a road through New Roads, where we save 25 billion. kr per year. How is SV going to close the gap between the expenses they're so much for, and the income they're equal to the income they're against?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1897	Just because SV is pretty much all of the reforms from the right does not mean that we are opposed to reforms. We are opposed to right-hand reforms, which have tended to be liberalizing, tended to ensure that wealth ends up on ever fewer hands, and which tend to lead to increased centralization and uneven distribution of power around the whole country. We are deeply opposed to the basic idea of the right-hand side of these areas. When it comes to the question itself, there is a crucial question that I think will be discussed in every party: how are we going to move from an economy that we know we can't live on for a long, long time in the future, and that in value and value creation is going to mean less in the Norwegian economy? How are we going to move him on to new nutrient tracks? Then we have to have a coherent plan to ensure a transition to these new industries to take over and put into practice the skills and technology that are in the other jobs. That's what we're calling for from the government, and it's not yet coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1904	I fully agree that this is a crucial question. That's why I asked for an answer. Because I hear that there is opposition to right-hand reforms, but the representative did not mention any reform that SV is in favour of. Once again, if we are to make ourselves less oil dependent, especially those parties that claim to be climate parties must be able to give a credible answer on how to cope without the 245 billion in direct revenues from just oil industry in order to convert the Norwegian economy. Then we have to be able to carry out reforms that make us get more out of every penny we spend. I can't remember in the seven years I've been sitting on Stortinget, that SV has called for a single reform that gives just this result. In the answer that the representative Knag County gave instead, where he said that this was absolutely essential to achieve, there was nothing else to hear than what you are against right-hand reforms. He did not mention any reforms to convert the public sector to deliver more for less, to turn us into a greener economy. I'm afraid we're going from green conversion to red conversion, where this just gets more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1911	I guess there's two themes that Nordby Lunde brings up here, which rotates the discussion a little bit. Firstly, attack the SV for some kind of public sector thinking, and the second is business life. When it comes to the latter, I have to make Nordby Lunde aware that in the budget for SV, there has been a significantly greater investment in business than the government has had – much larger. There is absolutely all the reforms that the right-hand side is accustomed to speaking loudly in the clouds, but that they never follow in the form of practical policies when it comes to the state budget, whether it be the big biostake, the battery charge, green shipping, etc. We're actually putting money on the table, we're able to prioritize it within our budget, and we're even spending even less oil money than what the right-hand side is doing. Another interesting question is whether there has been any government reform that has addressed the challenge of the Norwegian economy. It doesn't. What do you think about? Municipal reform? Does she address the dependence on oil that we have today? Is it the county reform, the Nav reform or the police reform? No, none of those reforms. The government has had no major business reforms at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1918	The centre party agrees with SV that we need a greener industrial policy. One of the green industries in this country is the forest, and the forest in Norway today binds about half of the greenhouse gas emissions that Norway emits. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change also requires increased use of biomass in all its scenarios to achieve the international climate objectives. For us, the forest is an important climate action, nature's own capture and storage system, and as a typical forest country, we have the best conditions for using climate action. SV, on the other hand, has consistently opposed the submission of a plan to use the forest as a climate action, among other things. through increased forest planting. In a crisis as serious as the climate crisis is, all rocks should be snuffed, not protected, as SV to a large extent does when it comes to the forest. Why will SV not be involved in taking nature and forest into use as an important climate action, through both mowing and planting and care and care?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1925	It's a very important discussion that the representative draws up. I had hoped that the discussion was even more refined in the Center Party in these areas. We can't run a fight against climate change and environmental damage where we just take it one perspective and not the other. We must save the climate and ensure natural disasters at the same time. That means that we must have a forest outreach that is sustainable, that does not weaken both the uptake of greenhouse gases and the natural degradation in the forest, and then we must have strategies or other in the industrial policy that ensure that we get into the goal of the great climate struggle. For SV, this is a matter of land policy, forest policy – a broad nature policy. We want an increased extraction and a greater exploitation of wood in Norway, but we have to do so within the objectives we have for natural disasters and forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1931	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1936	I have a poster in my office. I look at it every day, and it says: We only have 12 years – the earth has a fever. I got it from an environmental agent, but I got it two years ago. In other words, now we only have ten years on the main task facing this magnification and next enlargement, namely to cut greenhouse gas emissions sufficiently by 2030. We have important problems ahead of us. The following year, 2021, the binding law of the Paris Agreement enters into force. All countries shall report stronger climate targets. The government in Norway was early off reporting a target of 50–55 pst. reduction, and we need to press for the others to do the same, so the whole world is involved in the effort that we have to have in common to cut greenhouse gas emissions globally by at least 50 pst. by 2030. We are also in the process of cooperating in Europe on the joint implementation of the climate objectives we are going to have, i.e. we are going to have cooperation in all areas, not only those subject to quotas but also those not subject to quotas, such as transport, waste, agriculture and land use. The European Commission has proposed that we cut 55 pst. The agreement will also apply to us, and it is important that we now, within this cooperation, further intensify our actions. In many areas we are far ahead. Norwegian emissions are falling. They've done that in the last four years. In fact, emissions have also decreased in six out of the seven last years. The 2020 climate change target is within reach. We get the same emission cuts this year as we did in 2019, when we reach the goal of getting down to 48.7 million tons. It was the few who believed a few years ago. So we're going to do this at the same time as others, for example. Oslo, struggling to cut her emissions. Here they go up. Within transport we are far ahead. We've been holding on to the electric car benefits over two downtime periods. So far this year has 50 pst. of the sales were electric cars. Last month it was up to 60 pst, and we're also on our way to achieving the 2025 target with just the sale of a zero-emission vehicle. It is essential that the electric car benefits are maintained until we know that we reach the goal. The discussion of charge change must follow. The goal must be the leading. When we know that we're reaching that, you can look at adjustments. We see that electrification is becoming increasingly extensive. We have carried out a significant strengthening of Enova, but also via the Research Council, the Environmental Technology Scheme, the Climate Action and the Green Maritime Programme. Now we see more and more electric buses, vans, the first in heavy transport, and also what happens in green shipping – with great change and at a great pace. And we've been brave. We have introduced sustainable biofuels despite the dilemmas involved, and the climate impact of biofuels is also increasing. The truth is that without this will, it would not be possible to achieve the climate target for 2020. But now we have to look forward. It is in this big business session that the Storting should also adopt a climate plan that will provide the predictability and the clear framework we need to cut emissions in Norway and together with Europe by 2030. But we are also in a natural crisis. One million species are threatened with extinction. Now, nature-based solutions are also an important climate action, and it is important that Norway continues the efforts we are making, and the leadership we have internationally – whether it is rainforesting, fighting environmental crime, or it is the sea bet that the Prime Minister has also supported. But we also have to do more here at home. We've started a lot with 10 pst. forest protection – we have passed 5 pst. We've doubled the number of selected cultural landscapes. We have new marine protected areas, and we have greater efforts to combat plastics and sewage in the sea. We have also protected the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja and other areas from petroleum activity. But we have to move on. It no longer merely ensures the main areas and slows down development with loss of nature. We have to stop development and drive it back. By 2030 we must have more nature than we have today. Then we also need to put in place a Paris agreement by nature, with the intention of protecting more, having better overall management and looking at how to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1955	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1960	No political task is more important than securing people a job. Work is the key to the rest – own money, a sense of mastery, increased dignity, owner-occupancy, good health, better integration and a social life. All of this will be easier if you have a job to do. In the autumn we shall adopt a new law on integration. An important objective here is to improve the quality of the introduction programme. Both municipalities and county councils are given a number of new tasks under the new law and increased quality requirements are imposed on the offer to be made. KS has been clear that this will also lead to a significant increase in costs for municipalities and county councils. So what is the left's reaction to KS's claims? And can the Left guarantee that municipalities and county councils experiencing increased costs due to the new law of integration will be compensated for these increased costs under the municipal law?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1969	Firstly, I do not agree that it is just any job that is the most important. As I said, the most important thing now, in the decade that's ahead of us, is that we're going to achieve our emission targets, we're going to take care of nature, and we're going to do this in a way that makes us also create jobs. In other words, we need to look at how climate action is driving economic development, as is seen in more and more areas, and this must be related to having a job. It's important to focus on integration, so we get everyone into the world of work, and into the new world of work that we need. This is a bet area for the left. It's been in government, and it's been before, before we got into government. Now we need to have our own law of integration – and when you introduce a law, you follow this up with Norwegian municipalities as well. Norwegian municipalities have a better economy than they've had in maybe twenty years, but in addition, there's a new one, and this also means that you get support for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1976	The representative of Elvesuen is concerned about the environment. There are also many people in Westfold and Telemark, and they cheered in the middle of September when the government parties assumed that it was not now going to be a landfill for hazardous waste in Brevik's mines. The representative of Elvesuen got a lot of praise for having contributed to this, among other things. as Minister for Climate and Environment. But then it turns out that the government sold in and cheered like that for, really isn't a complete rejection of the landfill in Brevik at all, it's just a postponement. For today’s climate and environment minister, there is no certainty that the government will not go further with a state plan for landfill in Brevik now – or now, as Rotevatn would have said. As a former minister in the field, and one who therefore knows the matter well, the representative Elvesuen – unlike the Council of State, Rotevatn – can state that the people of Brevik and Porsgrund can still relax completely, because it is certain that there will be no landfill in Brevik? Or does he agree that the plans to lay a landfill for hazardous waste in Brevik are currently only exposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1983	I believe there will be no landfill for hazardous waste in Brevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1988	The representative of Elvesuen spoke warmly about the commitment to – and against – climate change and to combat it, and that is an commitment that we share in the SV. At the same time, I could hardly hear that Elvesuen addressed the question of oil and gas operations. The representative mentioned that Lofoten, the West Pole, and Senja have been protected. I am very pleased about that, but we know that if we are to succeed in achieving the climate goals, we must also limit the oil industry. Nevertheless, this government has made record in new allocations of exploration land and calls to the oil industry. Earlier when we challenged the Left on this, the answer has been oil tax, but now the Left has also been involved in adopting a new oil tax package that will allow the State to take additional risks in the event of new expansions, which could lead to an even higher pace on the Norwegian base. And when you read the new software draft to the Left, the Left also suggests reducing exploration for oil. So what's going to be the left hand average in the government on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e1993	When you look at that discussion from in ours, I guess that was an example of the fact that the proposal presented by the government was considerably better than what was agreed in the Storting, which was too favourable for the oil industry, in our opinion. And although there is no majority for this, I still believe that it is absolutely essential to look at the tax system, to get closer to a neutral tax system. It must be in the next growing period you have to work for it. And even if they're allowables, you don't have to put an equal sign between that and that it actually starts activity. With regard to Norwegian emissions, we should also bear in mind that the second Stortinget Decision required us to cut emissions in the petroleum sector by 50 pst. By 2030, we will need strong instruments, which we will also have to follow up, and which we will have to use to achieve the full range of state instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2000	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2005	Since the last treaty debate, we have a rather unique year behind us, where the Storting has been working more across party boundaries than one has had the tradition of doing – in terms of teamwork and fast, and where speed may have been more important than precision – because it has been necessary to find measures to get the country through the crisis we have faced. Now, when we have the debate again, it is possible to raise our eyes a little, and I believe that, after listening to the debate so far, we can recognise that the debate is back in the Chamber. I think that is a health sign and a good sign, which shows that Norway has been relatively good through the crisis, also because we have had some factors with us that have been important. We've managed to have a good infectious disease strategy, which has kept the infection relatively under control. We have lucky people who have a business life with goods that are still in demand in the rest of the world. Six months ago, when we were going to adopt a crisis package, we saw oil prices and salmon prices and other export prices that would be lower than they might have been. What I also mean was a strength for Norway that we see that the things we depend on to sell are things that are in demand in the rest of the world. But the most important thing, which means that Norway has come through the crisis well, is that we have a well-functioning welfare society. We have good arrangements, but also a trust between peoples, and between peoples and governments, which means that one can handle these kinds of crises in a good way. Is there something we're going to learn from this when we have one year left of this magnification period, is that the communities that have set up each other for the past six months, are the ones we're forced to strengthen in the future, because this crisis shows what we appreciate, and what is safe when we appreciate it is threatened. I think that the phrase pair we should perhaps be able to obtain is that we need to have a strengthening of the small and close communities, and that it has to happen in a way where we also participate in the large communities that are around us. We know that our welfare society needs stronger communities, and that community is more than the state – it's the towns and cities, neighboring communities, sports teams, and above all, it's family. We have a government now that puts the big money in the little kids, and that's committed to building a policy that gives families power and ability to control their own everyday lives, and that invests in early efforts. That's because we also know that in the inequality debate, maybe the most important thing we do, is the investment we make in our common future when we invest in what is Norway's most important national wealth, that we have a society that is capable of putting the effort on the young and laying a good foundation in time for life. Recent research indicates that it is the first years of life that are most decisive for the development of human beings. In the first few years of life, more than one million new nerve connections in the brain are created every second. These relationships are forming and creating the very architecture of the brain, and that is what creates the basis for future learning, future behavior and future health. When we spend money in the first few years, it's about making the relationship easier for one to have a safe and healthy growth, it's about the effort up against family members, and it's about early work in kindergarten and in school. Because we know that what happens in families and in kindergarten the first years of life is at least as important as what happens through further schooling. I said it's about the small communities, but it's also about the big ones. I'm glad that we've had a number in this room in this big time period that's seen Norway as part of the world, and that the solutions to the big challenges we're facing – both in the pandemic and afterwards – are multi-national, and they're about sharing in the big communities. I'm proud that we've managed to deliver the state budget after the state budget that delivers on the percentage, where Norway contributed to those parts of the world that are not as privileged as us, where we see that what's in crisis here is catastrophic other places in the world. I'm glad that we have a large majority who have seen the climate work into the international context where it belongs at home. Norway is the first Western country to achieve stronger objectives under the Paris Agreement. We've delivered four years of climate change, and now we're going to have a big house where we're both going to debate Climate and Longship, where Norway is going to take a lead in international carbon capture and storage. We're working with our neighbours to achieve the goals we've seen. And not least, we are confident that we are in the agreements we have internationally, such as the EEA Agreement. It also means that we have a viable way out of this crisis, and I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2025	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2030	Few projects have been investigated as much as the City Ship Tunnel. We're now in the 22nd investigation. Through seven State budgets with Ministers for Transport of the Progress Party, the project has been held in the spirit of planning money. Now we can read that the project is stopped by this government because there is no finance for the project now. In the current national transport plan, little has been done to strengthen the maritime nation of Norway. The place was the big and important project to be realized. Shall an investigation be set aside, or when does the Christian People's Party believe that the ship's tunnel will be realized? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2035	This ship's tunnel entered a national transport plan, in the first part of a national transport plan, which was very ambitious, and one then encountered an opposition that was really just drifting overboard, while they recognized that it was an ambitious transport plan. Then I have good news for the representative – if she thinks the tunnel is now cancelled. He isn't. What's missing is the means to implement it. I think it's been a good move when the government has also been clear that the plans are there, and everything is right for one to go ahead with the project, but one is forced to have the money to do it. We just have to acknowledge that the government has not notified the coming state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2042	Every year, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have been united to strengthen the ideal actors in child protection. We received a joint majority in this room in 2018 to raise the proportion of non-profit actors to 40 pst. – at the expense of the commercial operators. But it was before the Christian People's Party joined the government. Unfortunately, minimal has happened in this former Christian People's Party affair since the Christian People's Party joined the government. Unfortunately, developments have shown that the commercial share of child protection actors is increasing, the public interest in the field of institution is reduced, and there is none – none! – increase in the ideal proportion. It has now been two and a half years since the Christian People's Party took part and decided to increase the ideal share – without results. What's the reason for that? Is there little breakthrough in government towards the Right, or has the Christian People's Party also taken a step to the right in this area and stopped working actively for only a public and an ideal offer in child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2049	This is a trend that has been going on for a long time, where the Storting has called for ambitious targets, but where the measures have not been sufficiently achieved by the ongoing government. I share the ambition that a greater part of the Norwegian welfare mix should be taken over by ideals. Comparing a Norway with other countries in Europe, it is really striking that in Norway the wealth mix is very much one-sidedly dominated by public and private enterprises, while the ideal feature is too small. This I think is something our party shouldn't say that we're done working to find good solutions for. At least it hasn't given up the Christian People's Party, and we're going to continue that struggle from the government's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2054	The representative spoke warmly about the need to help the families with children, and especially those who have too little money. We fully agree with that in the resolution. In particular, the representative spoke about the importance of the first years of life. You know, for example. that young people who grow up in families who are poor, who have little money, are also affected by it when it comes to development. They grow up in a home that is characterized by a lot of stress, and that in itself is harmful. Therefore, I wish it were right when the representative said that this government is adding the big money to the little kids. But unfortunately that's not what has been the priority of this government. So now there are 110 000 young people in Norway growing up in poor families. It's an enormously high number, and it's just increased under this government. Then I see that the census announces that there will be a new cooperation agreement in the field of child poverty. But poor families need more money. Is there any more money for these families?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2061	Thank you for an important question. It is unfortunately right that the development when it comes to child poverty has gone in the wrong direction, but it has gone in the wrong direction over a very long time, and there is something I think shifting plurality in this room is also necessary to take responsibility for. Some of the things I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has won are just that there's also going to be money for a part of the family that falls under this. Therefore, it was important that we – SV share that commitment – were able to increase child-restraint, especially for the smallest children. For this reason, it is important when the government is also playing from the forthcoming state budget that one will increase the one-off support, especially for those who are not within the most liberal welfare arrangements they have ever had. That's what I think is important priorities. What I think is a good proof of why it's important that you include in government this kind of party, which emphasizes the important perspective, it's that we also present to the families at the bottom. These are the trends we've had to turn around, and it's not done with a pen stroke.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2070	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2075	Seven years of right-wing rule – both parties and ministers have come and gone, but in all these years there is a clear policy that creates greater differences between people. The richest have more, common people have been given welfare protection. There have been greater differences between them and those outside of work, and more and more people are out of work. We need a new course. The Labour Party will give our country the new course: fewer differences between people, stronger welfare, socially equitable distribution, more jobs. We have a government that doesn't listen to people's needs and that ignores the fact that more and more people have to stand in the hands of today's Norway, reinforced by the Korona crisis. The Korona crisis puts a magnifying glass on the increasing differences in our society. On Friday, stage technicians, sound and light people, managers, and really everyone who works in front, on the side of and behind the stage, demonstrated that we should enjoy cultural experiences of the best quality. They demonstrated that they were at risk of not having anything to live on from 1 November, because we have a government that has consistently been late for action on cultural life, and as a rule it has been too little. We've seen arrangements that don't make well enough. They demonstrated because we have a government that doesn't understand how cultural life relates, how experiences are created, that there are actually a lot of workers behind an event, not just the artist himself. It was these people who first noticed the crisis. The halls were emptied, and the scenes had to be closed in a few hours notice in March. Those who live by gathering people will also be the last ones to go back to work. They have to get help if they have a job to go to again. The workers who give us the culture, those who contribute to making our lives worth living, must not be left in the hands of lua. The Korona crisis puts a magnifying glass on the differences in Norwegian society, on people in painful situations, on the consequences that we have a long way to go until we're equal. The ladies who heroically drew us through the first and most intense phase of the crisis, those who stood in the front line of the health care system, who provided cleaning, those who went to work in the store and were exposed to the risk of infection so that we others would be safe, those ladies deserve so much more than collective applause from balconies. This crisis should have brought up the eyes that were still closed, so that these people deserve a living from, a pension from the first crown and entire, permanent positions. It cannot continue to be that our main employees are the ones who have to work the hardest for the least. They are the ones who were already in a vulnerable position in the world of work, which are now hit hardest, but who are also at the top. Those who work part-time, those who are temporarily employed, are the ones who pay the price now when the service and experience industries are hit hard and likely for a long time. They deserve less talk. They don't just have to clapp, they need action. The working party will have more orderly conditions in the working life, less temporaryity, less rent, whole, permanent jobs, pension from the first crown and a salary to live on. That's our promise, but for that we also need a government shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2092	The last six months have put us to the test. We're in the middle of a global pandemic and a situation none of us have been in before, and it'll take time to get through. So far, we have jointly managed to limit the spread of infection in Norway and limit the number of deaths related to covid-19. The pandemic has a major impact on the world economy and the Norwegian economy. In Norway, we have economic muscles to compensate for the loss of income both for businesses and for workers who are temporarily unemployed. It's not a matter of course in other parts of the world. Reduced demand in world markets will have an impact on competitive business. Norway is particularly vulnerable since we have so much export and depend on selling much of what we produce to the rest of the world. Good market access and the development of our main trading partners are crucial to the impact of our economy. The Coronapandemic has shown us how important private value creation is to the sustainability of our welfare society. Norwegian enterprises contribute to income and jobs and to the financing of the necessary common resources. Some industries have been successful for the time being, for example: fisheries and farming. Others, such as some of the major shipyards, offshore companies and the travel industry, face major challenges. The future will be important for Norwegian business and jobs. We need to create more while at the same time creating new and green jobs. This means extraordinary measures in the situation we are in, to help other profitable businesses get through the pandemic. However, it also means continuing the policy we have pursued since 2013, with a focus on knowledge and competence, continuing to invest heavily in innovation and industrial research and development, building a good, safe and efficient infrastructure across the country and providing a competitive tax level for both individual and Norwegian businesses and Norwegian ownership. It is strange, therefore, that at a time when many companies experience difficult times and need each krona they can hold in equity, the left side of Norwegian policy wants to make the situation worse by taxing Norwegian ownership and Norwegian jobs harder. This will make it more difficult to create new jobs, especially for those companies that are struggling with strenuous liquidity in this situation. Effective transport is very important for the competitiveness of Norwegian companies and for each of us to have a good working life. When I'm on company visits, transportation is a transition tone. Good infrastructure is necessary to create jobs throughout the country. Since we took over the government offices in 2013, the traffic budget has increased by over 80 p.m., and it is no big secret that we will see an increase in the budget for 2021. We are beginning to approach a doubling of the budget for transport since 2013. At the same time, reforms have been implemented which increase the scope of action in the transport sector. The establishment of new roads has shown that it is possible to work smarter and reduce costs. The railway reform and the launching of several sections have shown that it is possible to create a better offer at a lower cost for the Community. A single left-hand side voted against the creation of New Vejer and the railway reform, but I see that they like to balance the budget with the benefits of the same reforms. The transport sector is well under way in reducing emissions. New technology makes it possible, and the phase-in of electric cars and electric ferries are good examples of it. In the larger urban areas, there are more and more people walking, cycling or using public transport. Korona has probably created an extraordinary situation, especially for public transport, but we're going back to the positive development we had before the corona. In the maritime sector, we're at the top of the world. Both the State and the county municipalities have made strict environmental demands in ferry offers, and nearly 70 ferries will in a short time be low or zero-emission ferries. In addition to the use of public procurement, grant schemes through Enova and an active charging policy are crucial for this development. When the Prime Minister also calls for a significant investment in hydrogen, it is very joyful. In the maritime sector, hydrogen and other energy carriers are very topical, especially for vessels sailing over long distances. The best thing is that what we do in the maritime sector creates jobs in Norway and contributes to value creation along the coast. The Norwegian maritime cluster is one of our greatest competitive advantages. It's about creating more at the same time as we're facilitating a green transition. Norwegian companies are absolutely essential for us to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2117	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2123	The fast route had to reduce calls in March linked to covid-19. That was the understanding, but it also caused great problems for freight traffic, which went only with two ships, from Kirkenes to Bodø. Then they opened up, as the rest of society has gradually done. But because of the Hurtigruten's own handling of cruises, with on-board infection and even tragic deaths, they shut down again, despite receiving more than 856 million annually. kr in aid from the State. My question to the Right is: Are two fast-haul vessels operating, as it is now, towards eleven, as normal, a sufficient supply to the coastal population – and how long should this last?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2128	For our part, we have a close dialogue with the Ministry of Transport on these issues. It's a very demanding situation with regard to both what we've seen about handling the covid-19 from the Hurtigruten side, and the economic image we're seeing now, with fewer tourists along our coast. The goal must be that we do our best to return to a normal situation as soon as possible, and that we work together to ensure that the Hurtigruten, and so far also Havila gradually, as they enter the new coastal route offer, scale up their operations, so that we get a good and well-functioning offer along the coast. I have a great deal of understanding that, especially for goods handling and especially in North Norway, this is extremely important, and we want to do what we can, at least, to make it possible to get back to normal as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2133	Thanks for the answer. As far as the tourism industry is concerned, it is not 856 million. kr related to tourists; they are linked to local traffic and to goods. So what we have to consider is: are we going to get enough for this money, or does that mean that someone really can't deliver it a shell, and at the same time just receive money? If one goes far enough, Havilah can get started and receive money without doing anything, without walking along the coast – if one goes far enough. My question is: Should Hurtigruten be paid in full, without deductions, if they do not increase the offer? The crisis is soon totally linked to goods, and my opinion is that this is no longer going on. What do you think the Right should be done? Shall one continue like this, or how long shall this go?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2142	In this situation, which is quite extraordinary in every way possible, I believe that we are dependent on having a good dialogue with both Hurtigruten and Havila on the phasing-in of the offer in the coastal route offer. From our perspective, it is important that we return to a normal situation as soon as possible, a normal situation in which it is delivered in line with the tender conditions. But it is true that these tenders are made on the basis of the fact that they have other revenues, in the form of tourism, which have formed the basis for us to have the price level we have in the tender terms and conditions given. So this is more related than what we might like to believe. At the same time, it is important that we return to normal as soon as possible and ensure that we have good freight transport and a good transport for the local population along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2149	It was nice to hear the representative of the town talking warmly about the increase in traffic of 80 p.m., which the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport, at the Minister of Transport, has been a driver to get to. But on September 17th we registered a government councillor Hareide who put on a full brake and said that there are many projects that won't work out, there are many that are going to be disappointed in the future. There are not good signals for all of us who are concerned about and want to bet on building infrastructure, investing in building roads, investing in building railways and securing aviation in the future. My question is then which projects the representative of the place thinks have become so expensive that we should not continue to invest in these important infrastructure projects that have been within the national transport plan we have now, and whether he believes that the level of ambition should be lowered, for that is what I feel the government is now basing on. At least the Progress Party and I believe that it is incredibly bad. We want to be offensive and forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2156	Now I just want to say that we had a very good cooperation with the Progress Party when they ran this department, and we still have a good cooperation with the new Council of State, but what's important to me is that we have a national transport plan until a new one is adopted. My job is to follow it as well as possible and make sure that the most of the projects there are realized. Then we must continue to take on board the space of action that is at all times. I think the Progress Party too has to do that. Unfortunately, what we see in the transport sector is that the cost of a project enters the national transport plan until it comes out as a finished project at the other end, tends to increase by 30-40 pst. There is nothing new for this national transport plan – it was the previous one and it was there again. It does something about the space for action in realising the projects that we all like to see, that we need to be able to do as quickly as possible. But I look forward to good cooperation with the representative of Hoksrud and the Progress Party on the new national transport plan and on further work on the budget, so that we can put in place as many of these projects as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2163	Last week, Minister of Health Bent Höie was out there accusing the municipalities of adding up to budgets that don't go in, and then blaming the corona. Both share a government council very badly. It reminds me of a contempt for local voters and voters. KS was out today and called for a warning about the local economy. Net operating surplus for municipalities has fallen in recent years. Municipalities are striving to create budgets because margins have fallen. The main reason for this is lower government transfers over several years, as well as high cost increases related to more young people in need of help, increased needs in rushes and psychiatry, lost tax revenue and uncertain wage and price growth, see the section on the ‘Regulatory and Social Security’ section. what we knew when the municipality proposition was presented earlier. The government has said that it will provide an estimate of compensation for covid-19 near Christmas, but the legal requirements for municipalities are that a legal budget should be provided in good time before that. Does the Right really mean that the municipalities owe it to covid-19 when it's the government's arrangement for the municipal economy that's the problem here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2172	I have a few periods behind me as rapporteur when there was a red-green government that was overthrown, and I have been allowed to be on the Stortinget now with this government. What I see is that we've had a steady and good growth in the local economy over all these years. My experience as rapporteur in a small municipality at the time was that getting the budgets together was very demanding. It's an exercise I think a lot of people know about these days. And then once again, in the local economy, there have to be some priorities. As I see it, the government has been clear that one should be compensated for the additional expenses you have had with covid-19. I'm going to take that into account, and I'm going to assume that this is also the basis of the ongoing work that the government is doing. It is extremely important in the extraordinary situation we are now facing, that we are just making sure that we compensate for the additional costs that may be associated with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2177	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2182	In times of economic crisis, it is a priority for politicians. And when we're going to prioritize, the first thing we have to do is cut waste. Immigration to Norway is one of the most expensive things we can do. There are many different types of immigration, and they have different costs. For the last five years, we've received approx. 100000 non-Western immigrants to Norway. The Brochmann Committee has calculated that every non-Western immigrant on average through his life course costs society up to 10 billion. kr. That is, we've only incurred costs in the last five years up to 1000 billion. kr. This is money that someone has to pay. In a time of crisis, I doubt that we can afford to continue with the pace that has been in the last 20-30 years. Refugee-related immigration is the most expensive. The Brochmann Committee has calculated that every refugee who comes to Norway will cost up to 20 billion through a lifetime. kr. So 3,000 quota refugees, which Norway is going to receive every year, cost society about 60 billion. kr. Had it been that way of spending money had given very many people a hope, and had given very many people help, I think very many more, including the Advance Party, could share in defending it. But the truth is that this is the second worst way to help people, i.e. to live in Norway. Norway is the world’s most expensive country to live in and also the world’s most expensive country to help people in. To make some comparisons, we can say that Norway and Sweden alone spend more money every year on housing and integration than the entire United Nations spends on all refugees throughout Africa and all of Asia, or the whole Middle East. It's a huge use of money. So when we, together with Sweden, spend more money on a few thousand here than the entire United Nations spends on millions of people, this isn't helping people. The worst way to help people is to pick up asylum seekers with an unsolved and doubtful need for protection. When the government has decided to take aid from quota refugees that we actually know needs it, and give it to asylum seekers with a questionable need for protection from the Moria camp, it is simply an immoral policy. It has nothing to do with help. Norway and Europe have operated in the past with the relocation of asylum seekers from Greece and Italy. In 2016 and 2017, Norway picked up 700, and European countries picked up tens of thousands and relocated them. What happened? Well, the situation just got worse. At that time there were 3 000 to 4 000 asylum seekers in Moria, and today, before it burned, there were up to 13 000 asylum seekers there. So it has no effect, but it hurts to take help from quota refugees to give it to asylum seekers with a questionable need for protection. I think it is strange that the rapporteurs from the Labour Party and the Centre are trying to fight for solidarity by overcoming the reception of Moria refugees. Because if it had been the solidarity that drove them forward, they could start by living families with disabled children who have waited for up to seven years in reception in Norway – precisely because the same rapporteurs do not want to accept those who have already stayed, because it may not give it the benefit, it may not give the money in the cash. I think it seems hypocritical when the rapporteurs of the Labour Party and the Central Party are fighting to accept someone, while they reject others who need it even more. I believe that we must now begin to give priority. We've wasted enough money on a policy that doesn't help. We have created enough integration problems, and in fact enough people have drowned on their way to Europe across the Mediterranean today. We can change the policy. We can conduct a policy that saves lives and actually saves money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2207	It'll be a theme change, from the cost side to the income side. In the years that we have behind us – many of them with the Progress Party in government – Norway’s trade balance has fallen quite sharply. On the right-hand side from 2013, our export deficit, if one ignores oil and gas, has increased by 150 billion. kr. We know that oil and gas revenues are falling, and Norway is dependent on new export revenues to ensure common well-being. In climate policy, there is little that will contribute as much to cutting local emissions worldwide as if we were able to develop and scale up CO2 capture and storage. In addition, the project will contribute to the creation of new industrial activities for Norwegian enterprises. Despite this, the Progress Party has been rejecting the project, and the Oslo Progress Party has gone so far as to describe the project as advertising, solving claims and madness. What I want to know is what kind of projects the Progress Party thinks should be Norway's contribution to the fight for the climate. And how will the Progress Party secure Norway's new export revenue?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2217	It is exciting with lines written before the speech is given, because then you can get a clear theme change. But we accept that. The Progress Party has been critical of entering into the project that the government has now presented, because it is believed that these companies, the actors who themselves believe this will be profitable, must take more of the risk themselves. Tax payers are subject to excessive burden and risk by going into it. We have also been reminded that previous governments have started moon landing projects that became crash landing projects, and we simply do not want to spend so much of the taxpayers' money on a risky project. We want to put the measures where we know they have an impact, and not on the project that is now being presented, in the form that it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2224	Now it's also a theme change, but that's something I think is an important matter. Because after the Progress Party went out of government, we noticed that they have suddenly become very active in the debate on wind power. It's striking when they didn't have so much to say in the cases of the six years they spent with the responsible state council in this area. The centre party has repeatedly proposed that municipalities should be granted a veto with regard to saying no to wind power development, which the Progress Party has voted in favour of at all times. We're going to deal with something about the wind power concession system in the autumn, and it's not surprising that the Center Party is going to propose veto rights here as well. So my question to the Progress Party is: Why does the Progress Party not support the proposal of the Centre Party to grant the municipalities veto when it comes to saying no to wind power expansion?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2231	As the representative knows very well, all government cooperation is concluded by agreements, so you relate to the agreements you have entered into in the various governments. Now the Progress Party no longer has such an obligation to deal with. We have discussed this issue at the national meeting, and there will certainly be a new debate at our forthcoming national meeting. We are for the municipalities to decide even if they want wind power expansion in their municipality. That's our point of view, and that's still going to be it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2236	I have to say that I did not get a very clear answer. It is only a few months since the Progress Party voted down the proposal in Stortinget. When we are going to have the concession law for treatment in the Stortinget, the Senter Party has informed us that we want the planning and building law to be the basis for the law when it comes to the adoption of extensions. Today, the Energy Act is in force. My question to the Progress Party is whether they will support that proposal just to include the municipalities more in the work done in advance of any expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2241	I find it fascinating that the Center Party is so on the offer page to the Advance Party and is trying to get our support. We actually agree a lot. The center party comes after us in many things that they want to get our support for, and that's well and good. The problem with the Center Party is that they stand alone with the partners they have chosen. If they want our support and that it actually has to matter, they have to switch sides, and then we can agree both on this matter and on many other issues in which the Center Party is still trying to get on the Progress Party's line. They are welcome to sit at another negotiating table if they wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2246	SV fully agrees that we must end up with immoral waste. What the Progress Party has been involved in is, of course, to waste billions of taxpayers' money for the richest in this country without showing that it will be a single job. And they've been on a series of unsocial cuts that hit families where the caregiver is unemployed, where the caregiver is out of work, where they live with sick children. For example, it has to be seen to cut glasses for young people, in housing support, in child support for disabled people, in support of single caregivers, in support of cars for disabled people, yes, even in stoma equipment for those who have had a stoma operation. What is the reason why this is not important and the billionaires are important to the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2251	There is a completely incorrect claim that comes up in the question. We all have our priorities, and I think everyone agrees that weak groups should be given priority first. Then we have different devices, both in fiscal policy and in other policy areas, which do not preclude one or the other from having a responsibility or a desire to care for weak groups. The fact that we have a different tax profile and believe that people should keep more of their own money, and that they should be spent wisely, without wasting, does not mean that we want to give weak groups worse conditions. These are statements that SV always try to take up to turn the matter away from what was really the topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2256	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2261	Health crises are the most likely crises that will affect Norwegian society: pandemics, drug shortages and antibiotic resistance. These are health crises that will take many lives. The Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness has warned us. The Covid-19 pandemic was alert. He led to the greatest closure of the country in peacetime. The consequences were great for society, business, health, sport and cultural life, but also for each individual: the vulnerable young, the fragile elderly, who have been isolated and who have died alone, it has stopped our visit in homes for thousands of people with mental retardation – likely violations of human rights. The centre party today proposes that the practice of stopping visits and isolation of vulnerable groups under the pandemic should be monitored. We need to know to learn and to fix wrong. The languages of the throne refer to the virtues: the good neighbour, the health staff who work overtime, the cultural life that had to be shut down, the people who lost the work and the income, all those who have the sacrifices and our patience. The virtue is fantastic, but the census should have been about the governance of the country, about political leadership, political responsibility, political priorities in times of crisis. That's where he failed. The census referred to international cooperation. Of course, it is important, but the word ‘national preparedness’ was not mentioned in one word in the Common Era. It is alarming, but not unexpected from the government of the day. Norway was in practice without a national preparedness for standard infectious disease equipment and critically important medicinal products when the pandemic hit – no emergency stores, no national production. Norway has a small number of hospitals per capita compared with other countries in Europe. We have few intensive places per capita in relation to other countries. We have a relatively small respiratory system. In addition, all new hospitals are consistently built with too little capacity. Local hospitals are laid down. The pandemic has shown how dependent we have been on the import of labour into important emergency jobs in our health care system as well. The pandemic has also shown that Norway needs a new direction of health policy. We need to strengthen national preparedness – the preparedness production of important medicinal products and infective equipment. We need to give priority to public health and close down privatisation policies, scrap centralisation policies, increase hospital capacity, secure local hospitals, strengthen regulars, medical services, ambulance services, community health services, care for the elderly, follow-up services for mid-wives, don't merge maternity wards and don't build a new giant hospital, a so-called "pig tower", in the middle of Oslo. After all, it is not to choose between public or private offerings that are the most important. It is to have a strong public health system that creates security in local communities and preparedness for crises throughout the country and for everyone, regardless of background. In crisis, local, municipal and public health services are indebted. However, government health policy focuses on the opposite – on single patient treatment, outsourcing and privatisation, free treatment options, streamlining and high levels of input-driven funding based on diagnostic codes. But there's no security code. Preparedness does not pay off in the market-based health policy of the government. This is what the Center Party will change. We are in a different direction – for national preparedness and for a strongly public and decentralised healthcare system, which is politically controlled, through the phasing out of the health service model. Finally, I would like to come up with some important proposals that the Centre Party today makes: the agreement that the joint municipal journal solution, Akson, is to be quality-secured through a public hearing; one to ask the government immediately to ensure that all healthcare providers provide defensive follow-up services for women who have more than 1.5 hours of travel to a food establishment one where we ask the government to elaborate various economic models to develop new active antibiotics that promote development and not buy and sell
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2294	The coronary apathy has affected the health, safety, workplaces and economics of people all over the globe. Compared to many other countries, we have done well in Norway, but it is not fair if the government increases the financial differences during the crisis and cannot protect the most vulnerable. The corona pandemic has shown that the health of the individual must be the responsibility of the community. If health services fail, society will break up quite quickly, and we're left to ourselves. Shops will have to close and businesses will have to be closed. A strong public health service for all is our main protection against the virus and future pandemics. Health safety is equal to the safety of business and the safety of the workplace. When Norway was closed overnight, we got the highest unemployment after World War II. Our health workers have worked long shifts to get through a wave of infection that could have paralyzed us even more as a society. Health professionals, nurses and doctors have gone to work for us all. They haven't gone to work. Good is the effort we all make in everyday life to keep distance and wash hands. Crisis time is like a magnifying glass for differences and inequalities. The right-hand side of the government increases the differences. The latest report of the Central Statistical Office shows that there are worse things to do than we thought. The 1 pst. The wealthiest in Norway pays less taxes than workers with ordinary income, for example: a nurse who makes 450,000–500,000 dollars a year. For every thousand copies the richest in Norway earns, they can tax as little as 90–170 kroner, while a nurse taxes 250 kroner. Someone's pulling away, and someone's standing still. Where you live, the level of education of your parents and the family economy you grow up in, is crucial for your health and for how long you can be healthy and living. The right-wing government has in its platform the objective of creating a sustainable welfare society. What does that mean? Does this mean that our hospitals are not sustainable? The municipalities are now laying down their budgets, and the signal from rapporteurs and advisers is a concern. The money they get from the state does not cover the increased costs. In Telemark and in the rest of the districts, local hospitals have to pay for patients who are not treated there but in private treatment because of Right privatisation reform. Ambulance bases are laid down in the districts. Is that what the government means by a sustainable welfare service – longer waiting for the ambulance? Different parties have gone into and out of Erna Solberg's right-wing government for seven years, but the course has always been the same: more to those who have a lot from before, privatisation of our common health service and a more unsafe working life – a course that weakens the Norwegian model of society and trust among people, a course that simply increases the differences. The Labour Party will have no major difference between people's opportunities to move towards their own goals, and the Workers' Party will never accept the spread of a global health crisis to a number of local crises where unemployment gets stuck at a high level. Norway needs to get through this pandemic stronger, safer and fairer than before. This requires a stronger welfare state and a more active state that also contributes to creating values in the private sector — a working life that does not push people out but puts hands and heads at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2317	Removing free treatment options, which Kjerkol here advocates, will lead to a two-fold division of our healthcare, which is going to go beyond those who need it the most. There's a lot of people sitting in this room who've heard the story of Tonje in the TV show "Helene checking in" at the NRK. She went from having a desire to die to be afraid to die after she had received good health care from a private actor, whom she could choose just because of free treatment choices. The patient's right that Tonje has has made the Workers' Party his biggest battle cause to remove. The result will be that only those who have good advice have the opportunity to choose, while everyone else has to wait in the public queue. This will lead to a two-way sharing of healthcare. Why does the Workers' Party want only those who have good advice to be allowed to choose the offer that best suits them?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2326	I'm quite surprised by the representative Lønseth and Røre's rhetoric here. The first health minister Bent Höie did when the pandemic hit Norway, was to liquidate the privatisation reform of free treatment options. It just couldn't stand the test. Bollocks in everyday life are also the causes of the crisis. Consistently providing resources from the public hospitals to the private clinicians, who can establish themselves wherever they want, will be to weaken the housing we've all leaned on now, these months. It was the Minister of Health himself who took these steps. That it should lead to a two-way sharing of healthcare and the loss of patient rights is simply not credible. Here we simply have to trust that the government has made the wise judgements and taken care of those who need health care first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2331	We were in a very special situation where you had to mobilise all the forces in the healthcare system just to ensure good management of the pandemic. There is no contradiction between strengthening public hospitals and letting those who need them choose private on public account. This allows you to reduce the waiting times for treatment. It also allows for more patient treatment and an activity growth to be facilitated. I do not understand that it is not possible to take into account that some patient groups, perhaps especially those who are struggling with mental health and intoxication, need a special, tailor-made scheme, which may not always fit into the public box. Let some of these people also choose offers that suit them. Why does the Workers' Party not listen to patients such as Tonje, who says she needs a completely different offer from what the public can give, but won't afford to pay for it out of their own pocket?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2342	There are some labels you put on one of the world’s best health services – ‘the public box’! There would never have been so much excitement in the world about our common healthcare in Norway as what we see today through countless studies from patients and user organisations, if this was the description of our common healthcare. The flexibility and individual adaptation to each patient we manage equally well in public, but then the Right cannot continue to strangle the public hospitals. Telemark is now losing up to 50 million. This is due to the fact that patients who receive treatment have to be paid for a different period of time in the field of mental health protection. And when patients are asked, we choose to listen. When they themselves give priority to what is important to them, the choice of treatment with a private logo is very low on that list for Norwegian patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2349	The pre-tax model was introduced by the Labour Party Government in 2001 with the support of the Right and Progress Party. Although the Labour Party and the Right were disunity in the previous line, the Labour Party and the Right are the two parties on the Stortinget that defend the enterprise model and are a few about it. Fortunately, there is a strong locality in the Labour Party, among others. in central Norway, which will work for the Workers' Party to reverse, as the Central Party believes, that the hospital sector must be governed democratically by leaders who can be thrown into elections, and there is a scrap of the New Public Management process and the market economy governance that comes with the corporate tax model. So I want to ask the representative of Kjerkol if she will help the Workers' Party get away from the health model and go away from the unity they have with Right at this important point in Norwegian health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2354	I know the local laws in Central Norway very well. I am the leader of one of them after a calm annual meeting, which some might have had with them. What I can say with certainty is that 20 years after the Health Company Reform was introduced, the Workers' Party is more than motivated to shake in that model. Perhaps Kjersti Toppe has read our draft program. What is important to us is to maintain state ownership and regional organisation to ensure both sufficient specialisation and a good and safe health service close to people. We are very critical of the way in which the current government has managed the health enterprise reform. We may not think health enterprise reform is an equally heartwarming concept anymore. We like to call this a local hospital, regional hospital and also national hospitals with national functions. We are more than motivated to make changes for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2359	SV believes that the state should not separate those who love each other. My friend Jan is lucky. He lived with his wife in a nursing home. He didn't need that much health care, but he pays. SV got a majority at Stortinget together with Right, Advance Party and Left for a cohabitation guarantee, a right to live together. Will the Workers' Party finally join in order that the State does not separate those who love each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2366	It is the municipalities that are primarily responsible for the fact that older people who need the care and care of their luck can be allowed to live together in institutions in the last few years, when it is best for them. Among the parties that the representative Wilkinson now read, there was also another option that did not get a majority, which was very close to giving a cohabitation guarantee as a right. I think that this must be solved locally by the municipalities, but the Workers' Party has had this in its programme for several periods, and of course there should be a right and an opportunity to live together in the last few years, even when health creeps.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2371	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2376	We have left behind some demanding and difficult months. Norway has been in and remains in a pandemic that has challenged us in new and unknown ways. It has taken a lot of many, and still we're not out of the crisis. The outbreak of the corona virus also led to considerable uncertainty and unrest in the international energy markets. Close borders and local closures in many countries have had major consequences. This has also hit the Norwegian energy industry – and the petroleum industry in particular. The fall in oil prices led to liquidity challenges and financial challenges for the entire Norwegian oil and gas industry. Norway also chose to carry out a production cut on Norwegian soil for its own resource management and Norwegian economy. The situation in the oil markets was serious. The outbreak of the virus resulted in increased costs for the implementation of ongoing projects, and many planned projects and exploration activities were at risk of exposure. This would result in significant negative ring-effects on the supplier industry and threaten jobs across the country. This, in turn, could lead to a permanent loss of competence at home. In view of this, the Government therefore proposed a temporary, targeted and limited change in the petroleum tax to ensure that the profitable planned projects are implemented as they would otherwise be. Although it is still difficult times, we can already see that what was baptized in the oil tax package has had a positive effect. Last week I received a plan for the expansion and operation of the Breidablikk in the middle of the North Sea. Breidablikk has an investment framework of 18.6 billion. kr and ensures assignment and activity in the Norwegian supplier industry. In addition, we have received a development plan for Hod and electrification of Sleipner. This creates ring-effects and secures jobs across our country. I'm very pleased that there was a broad majority in the Storting who stood behind the oil tax package and through it contributes to maintaining activity in what is the country's largest and most important industry. Despite the exceptional circumstances of the pandemic, we have also maintained predictability of the industry in other areas. The government presented an up-to-date management plan for the marine areas, which received a broad majority in the Storting, including the definition of the ice edge zone. These are important clarifications and frameworks for the petroleum activity. In addition, we are now working on both TFO 2020 and the 25th concession round. The impact of the pandemic has not affected the renewable industry in the same way as the oil and gas industry, but nevertheless they have had the same challenges as other sectors of industry in maintaining activity while maintaining the protection of infection. I want to pay tribute to the power industry, which has maintained a safe and stable power supply for businesses and homes in a very demanding period. For renewables too, we have delivered important policy issues in the last year. Wind power on land creates a lot of commitment, and last October the government chose not to go further in the work on a national framework for wind power. In June I therefore presented a big message with a number of proposals for tightening up and amendments to the concession treatment. I look forward to the Stortinge meeting later this autumn, and I would like to invite you to cooperate with all the parties in Stortinget. I believe that this is important in order to ensure the widest possible majority on an important framework for the development of wind power on land in the years to come. The government is concerned with creating more and including more, and the work on greening and cutting greenhouse gas emissions is very important in this context. Therefore, in the package of measures promoted by the government for Stortinget, there was a significant commitment to research, technology development and other measures that strengthen our competitiveness and cut emissions. As part of a billion package for green conversion, we granted 120 million. To build up under the hydrogen strategy that we presented, we increased the grant to NORWEP, and we established a new research center for marine wind, to mention something. In conclusion, of course, I would like to mention Langskip – the largest climate project in Norwegian industry ever. The government proposes that we now implement a project that will demonstrate to the world a whole value chain with the capture, transport and storage of CO 2 and that it is possible. The follow-up of several countries is crucial for success, and for us to manage to cut emissions in Norway and Europe while ensuring important industrial jobs. Like the report on wind power that we are about to deal with, I look forward to a good dialogue with Stortinget on this issue as well, and I will work for the widest possible majority for a very important investment for Norwegian industry and for Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2409	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2414	I will begin by joining in the wish of broad and good cooperation on several major and important issues, as the Council of State said, during the fall. If you follow developments internationally, and not least in Europe, you will see that the 2020s seem to be very different from the decade we have behind us. This is a time when people have begun to take on the climate challenges very seriously, and very much is now being invested in developing alternatives to fossil energy sources – in Europe and in the United States, if Biden wins, and even China has said that they will become carbon neutral in the long term. In view of this, the Climate Change Committee of Civita, WWF and the Norwegian Climate Change Foundation said that economic climate risks should be addressed by new PUDs in Norway, i.e. that the country should also look at long-term scenarios for the oil, gas and CO 2 price path. My impression has been that the government's answer has been that there is something the companies themselves do. Does the Council of State still think so, or should the State also look at economic climate risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2426	Initially, I just want to say that I agree with the description given by the representative of what we are facing in the years ahead, and also the shift that is underway in large parts of the world, which is important and correct that happens. With regard to the issue of climate risk, I would like to remind you – and I think the representative will agree – that it is not the case today that companies do not take this into account. No matter what this climate change committee has launched as a solution, it's true that when companies are going to count on whether it's profitable to expand a finding, for example, they're going to assume an increase in the quota price, and they're also counting the CO 2 price, which they also know is going to increase in the years to come, precisely because this government has given a strong signal that it's going to happen, and it's going to be predictable. In this picture, there are, of course, assessments of so-called climate risk, because it is an assessment of climate risk – what will our investments look like if the charges increase and the price of pollution increases? So I want to say that in addition to the ambitious plans that the industry has, this is something we're taking very seriously today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2436	I find that the Council of State's answer is that economic climate risk is taken into account, that's what companies do, and the state doesn't have to do anything in addition, but just follow what companies themselves do. It is then understood that the country's economic climate risk is identical to that of its companies. Now there is a large majority, not least many prominent economists in this sample, who believe that the country's climate risk may not necessarily be identical to that of the companies, but we can come back to that. I would like to ask what the Council of State thinks about is whether Norway is prepared for the big shift we are going to go through, even when it comes to what will grow, because that is a danger, which I think we agree on, so that the demand for what we have lived well for now will gradually go down. At the same time, demand for hydrogen, sea wind electricity, carbon capture and storage will rise. Are we positioned to seize this in the pact at the speed that happens in Europe, or is it a risk that we have a head start that we slide away – that while we investigate, they act? In other words, I ask the Council of State: are we on track for the energy revolution that is now taking place in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2443	First of all, when companies count on profitability, it's equally important for the state. That's how our tax regime on the base is built up. What is profitable for the state must be profitable for the companies – and vice versa. So of course, in that picture, climate risk is also important to us, there's not a contradiction between these two things. On the other hand, I agree with what the representative has to say. It was some of what I spent time talking about in my post: how we work consistently to strengthen Norway's competitiveness, how to make sure that we become less dependent on oil. We know, climate change or not, that this is not a renewable resource; the day comes when it is empty for oil and gas. But how can we use it in other ways? For example, how can we do this? get large-scale hydrogen bet on the basis of our great natural gas? Here we've come up with a strategy. I'm doing a great job working on a road map to follow up that strategy, to mention something. We're offensive to sea winds. So yes, we're about to position ourselves well to seize the opportunities that are actually in this future we're going to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2452	I am very pleased with the attention that the Council of State showed the oil and gas industry in its contribution, as well as the measures that we have put together to provide the industry. But I also noticed that the Council of State said that there had been a strong commitment around wind power on land, and we have probably, both of them, marked the enormous resistance that has arisen around the establishment of wind turbines around Norway and in Norwegian nature. It is hardly a single project to which there are no strong protests. At the same time, we have an enormous unused potential related to our hydropower. Today, we have a tax regime that prevents the necessary upgrading and modernisation of existing power plants. My question to the Council of State is whether she shares this view, that in the future we will be able to pay attention to wind turbines, and will the Council of State work for a changed tax regime and better framework conditions for hydropower?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2461	First to wind power: I'm glad that the representative also sees that commitment, and I hope that the representative takes that commitment into the important work that must be done in the Storting around the wind power message. Then my hope is in the consideration of that announcement that even the parties that have been involved in designing that policy over a long period of time – which is why we are where we are at wind power – also take responsibility, point to why things have become as they have, what we can do better, and that together we take responsibility for getting ahead of ourselves in what has become a very demanding debate. So to hydropower: the hydropower is the backbone of our energy supply. That's what makes us have a completely zero-emission power supply in this country. It's amazing. I want us to be able to restate the hydropower, so we can have it far into the future – for all future. But it's also important to remember that we've already built out a lot of hydropower, and a lot of what's left is protected. I am not so sure that going into sheltered watercourses is a desired development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2468	The government has proposed changes to the Energy Act to allow concessions to the private foreign table NorthConnect. In the presentation of the draft consultation, it is stated that the NorthConnect application is to be dealt with in line with the old energy law, that is, without requiring Statnet to own the cable, as the Workers' Party has demanded, and also a cable which the government's closest ally in energy policy, the Workers' Party, will have State and which the Progress Party claims to be against. The Labour Party leadership conducted earlier this year that the party has stopped NorthConnect: «Ready message from Jonas Gahr Støre and Espen Barth Eide: NorthConnect is not to be built, not now and not in the future.» This was the title of the LO-affiliated Industry Energy website in April. Can the Council of State now clarify, once and for all, why does the government, through changes in the Energy Act, not put a final stop to the private foreign table NorthConnect when there is a clear majority in the Stortinget that is opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2475	I have already suspended the treatment of that concession request, and I have also informed Stortinget about earlier, because we do not have enough knowledge of how the two cables under construction – one of which is in operation, in fact – will affect our power system. We have to wait, gain experience with it before it's time to re-open that NorthConnect concession request. So this is a hypothetical discussion. I understand that the Center Party wants to have it over and over again, but this is quite obvious. And what is in the hearing that is now on the amendment of the law is also quite in line with the agreement that was in Stortinget, where it was clearly said that this must be the case for future projects. So we have to get back to that. But I actually have no plans to resume NorthConnect concession treatment, so this is a hypothetical debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2482	I think it's quite clear that you want to trick NorthConnect through. When you send out a hearing where you make exceptions for NorthConnect and that treatment, I think you certainly haven't called this into question. This is a cable that will make it harder to produce climate-friendly Norwegian aluminium when energy prices rise. The question then is whether the government is willing to bear the cost it will have for the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2488	The hearing of that amendment is entirely in line with the agreement reached in Stortinget. When you change a law, it's quite natural that it doesn't have retroactive effect. That's how it works, and that's how I'm going to assume that the Center Party also believes it should be. But, as I said before, we have no plans to resume the concession request to NorthConnect now. It rests until we have gained experience. We have to get back to the hypothetical question of the NorthConnect concession request. If NorthConnect with today's owners were to be granted a concession in the future, this could be given for a limited time, but it is in any case a question that has to be addressed in the concession treatment, and as I said, there is nothing we are discussing now. I understand that the Central Party will have that debate, but I also think it is useful to remember that power exchange is a good thing for Norway, and that is also good for industry. I also think it is right to wait now for the experience we get from the two new cables, which will increase capacity by over 50 pst, and how it will turn out also for the Norwegian industry. I share the commitment of the Central Party representative for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2495	Last week, Equinor's plant on Melkøya burned it. Fortunately, there was no personal injury, but such a fire is very serious. Later, it has been found that the Petroleum Control was at Equinor on Melkøya the week before the fire. Then the several errors that were pointed out in 2017, and that these errors were still not corrected. Equinor also tells himself that they have made so-called error registrations in the system for following up the visit of the Petroleum Authority in 2017. The oil and energy minister is responsible for Equinor in the government. My question is, what has the Council of State done after the serious fire to ensure that Equinor follows up the imposed ones they get from the Petroleum Control in a proper and safe way? Could it have happened that Equinor, in his feedback to the Petroleum Authority, has said that they have followed up and corrected errors, while they have not actually done so?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2500	Let me start by saying that I and many others of course are very happy that there were only material damage in this event. It was very serious and could have been very much more serious than it was, so we are very happy today that after all it went as it went. The Authority’s responsibility for HMS in the petroleum sector lies with ASD and Ptil. In the case of impacts on the production of Snow White, etc., the operator must respond. Of course, regarding the question asked by the representative, it will be answered within the deadline, but I cannot answer this right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2507	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2512	The speech of the throne, which was read on Friday, contained two words about transportation, and that was the words ‘good infrastructure’. At least I would add the words ‘important’. Providing good infrastructure is, in fact, one of the most important tasks of the State. But that can't just be nice words. It is necessary to monitor appropriations to ensure that important projects are implemented. In the nearly seven years of the advance party put in government, there was no doubt that transportation was completely in the front of the panneum when it came to the appropriations. They were increased by approx. 80 pst. – a historic promise. In addition, we seized to put in place New Roads, a development company that was responsible for expanding several roads overall, faster and cheaper than what was done under the red-green ones. This establishment we've already seen amazing results of, both in Agder on E18, on Rv. 3/25 in Hedmark and not least in my own municipality of residence, Bamble, where I was able to drive on the beautiful new road, a splitter new, fantastic four-field highway, at 110 km speed limit – thanks to the Government’s Advance Party. When the red-green politicians say that we need more taxes for people to ensure well-being, I have to ask them to stop, and I want to show that there are completely different and much better suggestions, such as thinking new, grabbing and making sure to save society for money that can rather be used to build more roads, deploy new tools, like New Roads. There is a grip The Progress Party has proposed that we can also do on the railway side, so that we can ensure the continued development of the important sections of the route, such as: the intercity triangle, without allowing the cost career to continue as today. In the eight years of the party SV, the Workers' Party and the Center's government, they didn't take a single grip on the transport side to get more out of the money that people have worn and worked for, and that they have used to pay their taxes and taxes. It was actually so wrong that when the Progress Party in the government made sure that we established Nye Veier, it was said that this was to put transportation back ten years in time. The center party called it an air lock. Now, five years later, one can conclude that it must be one of the most profitable airlocks in history. Of the road projects allocated to New Roads, they have managed to reduce the estimated project costs by nearly 20 pst, or 25 billion. kr – 25 br. ................................................................................................................................................................................. New roads have started to expand that people have really seen results from. It is an incredibly important tool to ensure settlement throughout the country. This expansion is about making everyday life easier for people throughout the country, like Kari Elisabeth in Finnmark, Trygve in Hedmark, Kristian and Åse in Agder, Arild and Kjersti in Hordaland, Ida in Akershus and Marie in Oslo. I have met company owners and employees who tell me how important the way is to secure the company and/or create new activity that can create new jobs. I've met a professional driver who tells me how the situation in their workplaces has changed and improved a lot. I have also been told that there are still many places where it is important that the ‘driving’ of the Progress Party must continue on the road, especially on the roads. It's important to build a new road. Taking care of what you have is equally important. That is why we strongly strengthen maintenance. We stopped due and started to resume the maintenance maintenance run. It is so incredibly important that, in addition to providing better roads, it has great positive effects on road safety. In Norway, we have a strong ambition of zero seriously injured and killed in traffic. These are tough targets, but if we're going to be able to achieve them, we can't stop and reduce the rate of expansion. No, we have to keep 'tiring' on. In 1970, 50 years ago, 101 children and young people under the age of 16 died in traffic. Last year it was the first time in recent times that no one under the age of 16 died in traffic. It's very enjoyable, but we have to keep working so that this continues, by expanding several roads, removing accident spots and maintaining the roads ahead. We often talk about shorter travel time and more efficient transport, but road safety on new roads is at least equally important. That's why I'm a little worried about Councillor Hareide and the government's signals that you want to reduce the level of ambition, that you can't expand so many projects in the future. I can promise you that there will be a fight. The current national transport plan, presented by former Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen, is twice as ambitious as the red-green managed to produce. We have to follow up. The Progress Party will do its part to ensure that the ambitions are not reduced, because the needs are still there. It's about E134, E39, E16, E10 and many other important projects that still need to get ahead. Then you need an offensive and forward-looking team, and that team is the Progress Party – for roads and transportation for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2527	In recent months, Norway has experienced a major economic crisis as a result of the ringing effects of the coronary apathy. It was absolutely necessary and proper to implement powerful financial measures to ensure income for persons – income insurance for self-employed persons was a whole new scheme – to ensure compensation for firms that are severely affected and to facilitate the continued possibility of living, working and living good lives throughout Norway. Unfortunately, many of the measures that have come from the government have been far too few, too weak, and they have failed. There has been a need for Stortinget to intervene. Unfortunately, there has now been a situation in which the government is back to the old model of the Progress Party as a supporting party. This results in a policy that is not strong enough to take care of the whole of Norway and which is unable to manage different activities, both small and large. New and more powerful instruments are needed. In particular, it is also important to have a policy for the future to facilitate new jobs, to facilitate new industrial travel in Norway. Then we need a strategic commitment to the industries where we have priority, and based on our rich natural resources. I have registered speakers in the Chamber today who have thought that the strategy for the future should be to restrict the scope of action we have in Norway, to put us more under the EU in increasingly new areas. I have even heard speakers who have openly argued for EU membership. That would be a very unwise policy for Norway. On the contrary, we should ensure that national freedom of action is increased, that we have more freedom of action over important policy areas, that we have national freedom of action over energy and industrial policy, so that we can build jobs for the future – not as the majority of Stortinget has provided for the last few years, that one has subject to vital parts of Norwegian energy and industrial policy the EU by accepting membership of the EU Energy Agency Acer. There are also plans to go further through a new energy market package, where one in new areas will put Norwegian policy in the hands of the EU. There shall be an obligation to draw up network development plans in Norway to be periodically revised and, where one is in conflict with EU plans, EU plans shall be taken into account and we shall be aligned accordingly. I registered the Minister of Energy here earlier in a line-up talk about the proposal to amend the Energy Act that the government has sent to consult. I also noticed that the Minister for Oil and Energy said that the draft consultation is fully in line with the agreement that one in this Chamber has concluded with the Labour Party and the Green Party on a third energy market package. It would have been interesting if the representatives from the Workers' Party in the Chamber could confirm that they agree with the understanding that their partners have – which has stood on the platform here and also in the media – that the NorthConnect cable should not be built, not now, not in the future. The agreement concluded is a final no to that project. The agreement also excludes private cables in the future. At the same time, the Minister of Energy has now presented a consultation proposal exempting the NorthConnect cable from the requirement that Statnet should own and operate foreign connections. This unfortunately shows how one has tried to seduce the voters into such an important matter. It was not such that the NorthConnect cable was stopped once and for all. There is one way to do this, and it is that the Storting decides not to build the cable. It has been proposed in this Chamber before, and the parties that have not participated in it in the past will have new opportunities to vote for that project to be scrapped once and for all – do not continue to seduce the voters through their double communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2540	It might have been interesting to go into a cable discussion now, but I'm not going to do that. The problems that lie ahead of us are pretty big. Several hundreds of thousands of unemployed people have to return to work, many after a demanding coronary age, but also many new jobs have to be created and conversion takes place in a business that is very much stimulated by oil activity. Increasing differences need to be replaced by vigorous measures to bring about small differences between people, where the most important intervention is to include everyone in a safe working life. The welfare society must be strengthened and further developed. Export income from non-oil industries needs to rise significantly in order to ensure the sustainability of the welfare society. We need to take active action to resolve the climate crisis. It has to be done fairly, and jobs have to be created. Seven years of experience with right-wing policies shows that there is no answer. These problems are best solved in recognizing that you get more combined than each other. They are not solved by individualism or by tax laws for those who already have the most. We need to build stronger and more committed communities, a society where there are little differences and high trust between people. The census did not address solutions to the major challenges. They were barely mentioned — perhaps not so strange as the economic differences have increased in the last seven years. We see that exports to the rest of the world are falling, that the proportion of the Nordics in jobs has fallen, and that the sustainability of the welfare community is being challenged. We ask right-wing people what it is to do to reduce the increased disparities, to strengthen exports, to get more people to work and to strengthen the sustainability of the welfare community, we know the answer: it's tax cuts. That's wrong. A key point in a social democratic model of society is the exercise of active industrial policies that address the many opportunities but also recognise the challenges. Today we have an industrial policy that does not recognise well enough that the importance of Norwegian oil and gas will diminish in the time to come. There are misguided industrial policies. Today we have a business policy that does not recognise that the state must have a stronger role in industrial policy in order to succeed in the coming period. There are misguided industrial policies. Today we have a business policy that does not show signs of building tools for conversion and export efforts. There are misguided industrial policies. A report by Menon on behalf of Export Credit shows how Norwegian export work has completely failed. Few OECD countries have experienced weaker market share developments than Norway. There are lack of ambitions, insufficient resources and inadequate organisation of work, and we are close to the bottom of all OECD countries in terms of resources for export promotion. It is not just about exports, but about the shortcomings in industrial policy. Enterprise policy must assist enterprises in innovation, growth, scaling up, commercialisation and internationalisation. We must reinforce the means from an idea to commercial products in high-growth markets. When the economic differences have increased, exports to the rest of the world have plummeted, and the proportion of the Nordics in the job has fallen, much of this can be referred to as a failure in industrial policy. These are all important challenges for which the Workers' Party is trying to show answers and find solutions in our proposal for the party programme. In the draft programme, we show how we can help build new and climate-friendly industries on the shoulders of the existing one. We show how to use our large natural resources to create values that are shared fairly. We show how we want to put capital at the disposal so that the good ideas and the many possibilities can succeed more. We will ensure that we can use the state in interaction and partnership with private people to reach a levelling-out of the creativity of business, to create jobs, well-being and optimistic communities across the country. When the sale of state-owned businesses is a right-wing ideological mantra, I would like to stress that in a social-democratic sense, state ownership is not an end in itself, but an important tool for the further development of Norway. We've seen and experienced the inability of the right parties to solve the big societal problems. The mantra of the right-hand side on the most essential is tax cuts and privatisation. Yes, they were so sure of the negative impact of the property tax on businesses that they ordered a report. The investigation is now known and shows that increased taxes on wealth increase employment for small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, the report is a shattering settlement of the main industrial policy measures of the right: the property tax. Seven years of right-wing experience show us that none of the big problems can be solved by right-wing policies. If we are to succeed in solving the challenges of the future, right-wing policy must be remedied. We must once again have a policy that builds stronger and more committed communities. The focus needs to be refocused on smaller differences, safer jobs for everyone and a solidarity society where we take more responsibility for each other than the right-wing policy builds up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2559	Over my 15 years at Stortinget, there have been some persuasion debates. What's different this time is that it's going to be my very last. Health policy has been close to my heart and is a very important theme for the Progress Party – a health policy with a main focus on diversity, freedom of choice, new ideas and equal opportunities. The Progress Party has always promoted a number of proposals to improve and secure our health system, and although we have implemented large parts of our health policy through government participation, we will continue to work for less bureaucracy and simplified legislation, more diversity and freedom, and it will be important to remove cows and extended waiting times that covid-19 has brought. An important job will also be to follow up the decisions we have made, so that the people out there get the service that we believe we have adopted. An example of this is the legal right to a user-controlled personal assistant. On Friday, Uloba submitted a report on how the scheme was experienced in the municipalities five years after its introduction. That wasn't very funny reading. Very few new allocations are given, municipalities are not concerned about allowing users to live independent lives, and at least do not have active lives, as functional health has. But worst of all, the local authorities' attitude towards the applicants is, as I experience it, still the biggest challenge. For the Progress Party, which has as its main focus that people should be the head of their own lives, this is very discouraging. Lack of willingness to let people be leaders in their own lives means that the Storting has introduced more and more rights, bans, injunctions and designation against municipalities. However, on a case-by-case basis, we see that the municipalities fail in the organisation, follow-up and user involvement. The Progress Party will therefore once again show that as long as we have this unnatural distinction between who pays for what service, we will continue to see great differences and direct betrayal of individuals. The success of the Progress Party for a test scheme of state-funded care services has shown us that we get a better service if the health service is financed by the state as a whole. The Progress Party will continue to work to improve the conditions of addicts. The municipalities are responsible for follow-up after drug treatment, but despite the escalation plan and large appropriations, this has not resulted in the great improvement that we expected. Once again, the distinction between the level to be paid for what, that this leads to flaws and even negation. We can no longer sit still and let people fail time and time again. Standing in drug treatment is hard work, but the biggest job is to stay out of work even in everyday life. Housing, economics, activities and cleaning up the «backpack» require municipalities to be «hands on». Even relatives who have been in the many crises and defeats need to be strongly seen and heard. Pending for free treatment choices is high on the Progress Party list. Unlike the left-hand side, which does not want them to use private hospital services without health insurance and without a fat bank account, we demand that everyone have the same rights and opportunities. This means that everyone must be allowed to choose a private offer if they think it is better, if it has a shorter waiting time, or if it is the nearest one. The patient chooses, the state pays. In particular, in the field of drugs and mental health, private services have been crucial for very many. If we are really concerned that the differences in society should not increase, we are totally dependent on maintaining freedom of choice for all. On September 10, NRK told of a two - year - old girl living in a nursing home against her parents ’ will. All the way back to Alvheim's time in this house, the Progress Party has fought for children and young people not to live in nursing homes if they or their loved ones oppose this. And many decisions have been made in this room to stop this practice. So now it's a two-year-old child. Two years! We are therefore promoting a proposal today which, once and for all, states that such a practice will be prohibited. It is obvious that the struggle for participation, diversity and freedom of choice has not been won. In December, the foundation of the country’s very first children’s hospice is laid. The Progress Party has supported 100 pst. About this project from day one. We are proud and confident in this decision, so the left-hand side continues its fight against diversity and freedom of choice. I should like to refer to proposal No. 38, which I referred to in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2589	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2594	The Coronapandemic has reminded us in an almost unreal way of how fast the times can change. From a situation where unemployment was the lowest in the last ten years, we had a situation where the number of persons on leave and unemployed approached half a million. The coronavirus has been the black swan in which the likelihood of the situation can be explained with post-clocking. We were on the right track. The availability was low, tax policy worked, business creation speeded up, eight out of ten new businesses and jobs came in the private sector. Society's travel agencies are private companies that are profitable and have the ability to pay taxes. Every day, one million people go to work in small and medium-sized enterprises with fewer than 100 employees, and these companies account for about 50 pst. by the value creation here in the country. The government put all the cloths in place so that companies that have the right to live under normal circumstances would not succumb to this most extraordinary situation. For the government, it has also been overwhelming to limit the level of damage in the economy for enterprises and for jobs. At these times, the value of viable enterprises has become clear to some people. Therefore, it is so disappointing that the Workers' Party in its programme does not mention private ownership once. It's more state, you think of old socialist solutions that the Workers' Party had left many decades ago. It starts to smell a bit old-fashioned socialism of the Workers' Party, and they are getting closer in their language use more and more SV and Red. Social security and preparedness have been a priority area for the government. The conclusion of the Police Analysis and the Gjørv report was discouraging. Step by step, the police have improved. Now we have reached the goal of two police officers per thousand inhabitants, and the 400 additional posts allocated to the coronary apex are now converted into permanent posts. Crime is changing, and then, of course, the police also have to change. But what doesn't change is the Center Party. There's the solution to a completely changed crime scene status quo. It must make a certain impression on the Central Party that the Central Party rapporteur in Lyngen is today standing up and supporting the regional loner, who is demonstrably saying that the police in that area have improved. The same thing happens on Finnsnes. There is the local waitress, Arnold Nilsen, who was also the Labour Party's rapporteur candidate at the municipal elections, standing up and saying the same thing. I wonder if it might make a small impression on the Workers' Party, which has gradually become a little tailhang to the Center Party in the criticism of the police reform. The National Emergency Response Centre is now being used in Skiing, and the response staff in the police districts should also be able to meet the national response capacities. It is a bit of a pleasure to note that in the next few years after the police reform, the Central Party went high on the track and said that all the officers' offices that had been shut down were to be reopened. Then came the government budget for 2019, and then they had moderated to open up 20 canal offices. Now it is up to the local rapporteurs to decide. Finally, I would like to say that in 2013, when Haakon Bruun-Hanssen and Ine Eriksen Soreide took over as Defence Chief and Minister of Defense respectively, a complete review of the situation in the Defence. The defence budget has been increased by 30 p.m., and the operational capacity is now proven to be better. In a few days, the new long-term plan will come to Stortinget. The opposition is then invited, and I would say in particular the Workers' Party, to enter into a settlement, so that the long lines of Norwegian defence and security policy can be carried forward and take cross-political responsibility for this for the state's dissident main area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2613	For seven years we have heard speeches and declarations of accession of different compositions of solar governments. The difference between these figures and the government budgets that have arrived a few days later has been great. We've heard a government say it's busy with little differences between people, and then cut welfare benefits and wealth taxes. It started with the holiday pay of the unemployed, cut for the number of months the public will provide wages for those who are working in companies that are bankrupt, in the child allowance for the disabled, cut the length of the child to be supported when training for illness, cut the redundancy allowance for young people, spectacle support and grants for dental regulation for young people who have met the same fate. It is cut, cut, cut – also in the wealth tax, but the effect is quite different. The result is that the increase in differences means that we have come into companies with countries like the United Kingdom and Spain in terms of inequality. We don't belong there. The celebrations that we're a people whose inequality is small remain celebrations. The inequality is there, and it's increased dramatically in recent years. In the Workers' Party, we want another way. We will strengthen the welfare state, provide more security for work and security in work. We want a welfare state that sets up for those who need it. When the covid-19 pandemic hit us with full strength, the government acted quickly. Norway was shut down, and many companies had to lay off their employees. But did the government set up for those who were hit? The employer’s obligation to pay was to be cut from 15 to 2 days, and then they would have to leave for normal daily allowances – no suggestions for those who earned little, for apprentices or for those who worked as self-employed. For the Workers' Party, it was not appropriate to accept that workers should take the bill. The result was that the government was overrun in Stortinget. This is something that the workers can be happy about. The extension of the income insurance scheme has provided those who have committed more than 16 billion. kr more to walk with this year. That was not the government's proposal. On the other hand, it is the proposal to cut the property tax by 1.2 billion. kr mid-year. It stands in stark contrast to what the government proposed for the workers: 16.5 billion. kr less in the wallet, while they with wealth got 1.2 billion. kr more in his wallet. The outbreak of infectious diseases reinforces the need for business to change and for people to become more competent. But on Friday, some alarming numbers came from Nav. With a number of unemployed people twice as high as at the same time last year, Nav's last figure shows that there are 33 fewer measures in September this year than last year, 33 fewer – half a year after the outbreak. 158 fewer are trained through the Nav system than at the same time last year. Where have the new ideas and the government become effective? The Korona crisis has shown us what the community means: a welfare state that stands up for those who need it. If we're going to do it in the future, we have to make sure that unemployment doesn't get stuck. The working party will use the community’s muscles to get more people working. We need to create more jobs in all industries, so that people can live in our entire country, while at the same time helping to solve the climate crisis. For that, we need the Norwegian model, where the pay differentials are small and as many as possible are at work. We need workers who are confident that they have a job to do and who have safety at work. We need a government that takes the social partners seriously, that uses them actively, and that not only uses them as references in their work. Because it is in cooperation with employers and employees that we solve the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2639	It is our job to ensure a sustainable welfare society. It also means that we need to maintain some important values in our society: trust between people, a safe and good working life, small differences and opportunities for everyone regardless of background. The debate on inequality has flared up again after the SSB presented a new way of calculating inequality. Now the profits of companies have also become part of the income of people. During the night the inequality had doubled, without anything having happened. They've only used other numbers. Like companies' profits are a problem? The fact that businesses are doing well and making money is not negative. On the contrary, it is a sign of health. The crisis has shown us that we need to have private business on board. They finance our common well-being and create jobs, well-being that provide help to those who need it, a school for everyone and a safe country to live in. I don't think people recognize themselves in the story of huge inequality between people in Norway. Yes, we have rich people, no doubt about it, but the very ones, most of us, also have it quite well. The alternative approach of the new report does not change in reality: Norway has one of the lowest levels of inequality in Europe. But we need a fundamental debate on inequality and poverty in Norway. For how the individual has it, compared to numbers in a diagram, has a meaning. Just measuring income inequality is a wild trail. We could easily reduce the inequality in statistics by providing all welfare services in society as cash payments from the state. But would it have been better? Nope. Public services such as kindergarten, school and health care are of great importance to individuals, but are not shown in the statistics. The SSB has estimated that the proportion of low income in Norway would be greatly reduced if the value of public services were included. Cheaper kindergarten and free core time for low-income families allow more children to join the social arenas. Good health care and free education counteract inequality. We have to look behind the statistics and focus resources on combating the real causes of inequalities, and there are people who are not included in the working life, and there are people who lack education. The main reason for increasing poverty in Norway is low income among immigrants. Many immigrants succeed in society, but there is also a part that gets stuck. To prevent immigrant children from growing up in poverty, we need to get parents into work. The right has focused on the introduction programme, with greater emphasis on work, better language training and faster inclusion. We're going to keep doing that, and work is important, because there's no doubt that the biggest differences are between those who have a job to go to, and those who don't have it. Then we need early and targeted efforts. There's a connection between completing high school and getting a job. The more likely you are to complete, the higher the level of education your parents have, and the lower the chance of doing so. That's how poverty inherits in Norway. The right is aimed at completing nine out of ten high school. Then we need the limit of absence. We still have to make demands on the teachers, and we have to have transparency about the results of the school. And we still need a school that has expectations of the students, where reading, writing and billing are at the center. To combat poverty, we need a labour market where people get to participate. That's why the inclusion mat is so important. For the Church's Bymition, Frtex is the most important poverty fighter. It's about job opportunities. We can never eliminate all the inequalities, but we can have equal opportunities. But inequality in a society must also be acceptable. This may occur as a result of someone working more, or saving more, than others. Different efforts, or different priorities, yield different results. Seeking equality in all cases could be at the expense of values that freedom and ultimately could lead to a poorer and less happy Norway. It is important for society that we have the freedom to make our own choices, and that we do not inhibit incentives to work, create jobs and take risks. It will give less to distribution and thus less to those who have the least. The right will continue to work for a society with small differences, but the biggest differences are between those who have a job to go to, and those who don't. Then we have to create more and include more. This is how we create a sustainable welfare society, both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2662	Let me first of all thank the government for the constructive, but demanding cooperation in a special time for Norway over the past six months that has passed. After seven hours of debate around the throne, one might wonder what the country looks like from the benches of the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party. Because what we've been listening to today is basically rewriting old speakers, a story story about many of the challenges Norway has faced, without visions for the future. But we're in an entirely different time, and people out there have to be able to expect more of us than pre-written script from the speech and debate technology chapter of the previous big-time election campaign. For Norwegian enterprises, the situation outside is quite different. Therefore, it is decisive that, at the entrance to a new growth session, we are not only happy with the work we have done in the months behind us, but we see the need for strong industrial policies for the future to ensure that the jobs we have in Norway, not only get limping through the extreme situation of the Norwegian economy, have been in, but actually come strengthened out of it, and that it offers opportunities for new jobs and new value creation. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party have as their sole common denominator through today's discussion that they will increase the tax level, at a time when Norwegian companies have hardly any leftovers to talk about. This shows the fundamental lack of innovation on the left-hand side of Norway. Therefore, we have an important job in Stortinget, actually understanding what Norway looks like around the country. For the local corporate owners along the entire West Coast or in North Norway, speeches from the Stortingets are not available. They're living off hard cash. That's what's made sure that we're a welfare state, which is just enough oily, but which is still about taking care of the best in man, simply the might and the will to create their own job, their own everyday life, make sure they're closed to it and thus keep it a little bit of the excess themselves, while they use the other to be with and fund well-being for all of us. It is the policy of creating jobs and growth that will be decisive at the time we enter. If we look at whether there are other things that might start to smell together from the left – yes, there is a constant attack on what makes us manage to get through times of crisis that we've been in, for example. Norwegian oil and gas policy, which now lubricates the economy with hundreds of billions of dollars a year. While ever new parties are over each other, whether it's SV, the Environmental Party of Greens or others, about how fast we can get rid of the industry that employs tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of workers across the country and beg for us to be able to get through times that Norway has been in, in a quite unique position compared to most other countries in the world, they use the same period of time to stick new couples in the wheels. It shows why the Progress Party, with its contributions through the crisis packages we have had, through the changes in the oil tax agenda with which the government is now also happy and pleased, has triggered new activity on the Norwegian base. It shows why all these measures are necessary. But it also shows that we have to be more busy getting more for each of the heads in the future. One of the areas we're going to see more of this year is climate policy – because Norway is going to help bring down global emissions. We're going to help cut emissions in Norway, but we're going to have to do it in a way that actually means that we're going to have a lot of money left for each of these heads. We need to use quota mechanisms, we need to contribute with a climate policy that effectively cuts emissions, not move emissions out of the country. Because if this happens, as is the case with several of the parties that have spoken today, talk about it here in Stortinget, suggest that the workplaces that come with these emissions also leave the country. It's an old-fashioned climate policy, and it's an immature industrial policy, and the Progress Party comes in this session to show that we're a clear alternative to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2675	It's under one year to the election – one year until we can get a new red-green majority. I'm happy! There is reason to rejoice over all the opportunities that it can offer to reduce differences in Norway and to address the climate crisis we are facing. It's a pretty big and serious rug we have here, because we know it has something to say who's in charge. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have changed Norway. The differences are now greater than they were in 2013 – yes, much larger than we thought. The richest have become much richer, while low-paid workers feel that their real wages are still. The greenhouse gas emissions are finally on their way down, but if anyone here thinks we're near the track of the 2030 targets and the Paris agreement, they're embarrassingly wrong. That is, after all, the most important thing, something that the climate-stripping youth reminds us of. But where we might see the worst examples of this government changing Norway is on the distribution of power in society. Because we're no longer there that one man or one woman is one voice. No, now the bank account determines the ability to influence social development and the ability to safeguard one's own interests. Erna Solberg's main political project has actually ended up becoming a project to make the rich richer. That's the clearest result that's left of this government. Never before has there been so many billionaires in Norway, and the government has willingly given them huge tax cuts, so that they can become even richer. This is a gigantic redistribution of power from the community and people most of all to a small economic elite. Because that right-hand side doesn't seem to understand, or will not understand, is that economic inequality is a problem that is primarily about power -- it's a problem because someone gains more power at the expense of others. Today, the richest tenth in Norway controls more than half of all net worth. The richest percent own one fifth of all wealth, and the richest thousandths own 10 pst. of all assets in Norway. When the wealthiest in society gain control of ever-increasing wealth, they can of course cost themselves more luxury goods, such as a little finer clothes, a bigger house or a private plane. But the biggest problem is that the increased inequality means that they also gain more power – more power than the steady assistant, the teacher or the bus driver can dream about – through direct ownership of business, or politically through the funding of lobby groups and think tanks. We have seen many examples of this under Erna Solberg's leadership. This fall, two of the low-wage groups have striked because their wages are just too low and still – the weights, which are still on strike, and the bus drivers. Common to the two professions is that they have been far more vulnerable to the corona than many of us have been. There is also a striking gap between their salary and the salary of the group managers. The Managing Director of Securitas shall earn the annual salary of an instrument in one month. In Vy Buss, Managing Director makes 3.3 million. kr. At Erna Solberg's guard, this gap increases, well helped by tax cuts for the rich. Unemployment is still too high, and many are now uncertain whether the job they have today will survive. Nevertheless, the government's response is to provide business with crisis packages – without imposing a single requirement that the jobs of people must remain the most, without demanding that dividends should not be paid, without imposing a requirement to limit the management salaries and bonuses. Now the government announces that the perms and unemployed will get less in cash from 1 January – a good new year, greeting the government. But clearly, the richest of the country too notices this crisis. The capital overview shows that Norway's 400 richest in 2020 controls values for $1,401 billion. kr, down from $1,408 billion. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. I'm turning a light on the nation's 362 billionaires. At the same time, there are 110 000 young people growing up in poverty in Norway – 110 000. The government has announced that they will present a cooperation strategy. That sounds nice, but the question is, how are these families going to get better advice? That's what we'll see when we see the state budget on Wednesday, whether it's the billionaires or the kids getting priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2698	Knowledge gives freedom, and education ensures that everyone can live a good life and have a job to go to. The Korona crisis has cost time and strength, but the employees have stood on, and they have sacrificed, and they have shown an impressive professional skill and a fantastic creativity. It makes me incredibly proud. For me, 2020 is the year when the Norwegian school turned out to be much more offensive and forward-looking than its reputation. Not only was the education luckyitalized in record time – the school has at the same time introduced the greatest professional reform since the Knowledge promise, namely the trade renewal. It indicates that a central piece of government's commitment to quality in school is in place. One of the most important aspects of the reform is to ensure that the school can spend time and create room for deep learning instead of rushing through theme themes. With fewer and less detailed skills objectives, we also get more room for the teacher's judgement and judgement on what the student needs to work with. In practice, this is really a solid trust reform for Norwegian teachers, Norwegian principals and Norwegian school owners. This also shows that the trust reform called for by the Workers' Party and SV is an unnecessary non-reform. Teachers have the necessary confidence, and they have also shown, especially in recent months, that they manage it in a good way. What we need, on the other hand, is a reform of freedom in school — a school that sees each student and provides adapted training. It's not like everyone needs to learn absolutely the same thing at the exact same time, but all students should be allowed to cultivate their own talents and interests. Education shall provide freedom and opportunities for all, and the student shall be at the centre. Climate change and natural loss threaten the freedom of future generations. The green option should always be the best and the easiest. If we are to succeed, we must create new, green jobs while cutting emissions. Because of the policy pursued by the government with the Left at the head, emissions in Norway are now the lowest in 27 years. Our policies work, but we still have to do more. We need to strengthen public transport, we need to continue the electric car revolution, and we need to give industry the opportunity to carry out the green shift. At the same time, the state must contribute. It must be more profitable to live environmentally friendly and less profitable to pollute. It must be allowed to make money on man-made climate solutions or to take out profit, as the left-hand side so contemptuously mentions what is just healthy business. Profitable enterprises that succeed in creating new climate technologies contribute to both cutting emissions and creating profitable jobs. It equips us for the future. The climate struggle is not a circuit championship; it is a world championship that everyone has to contribute. The government has therefore entered into binding climate cooperation with the EU, which really commits us to cutting emissions. In order to succeed in the climate struggle, more cooperation is needed, not less, as some parties, such as the SV and the Center Party, call for. Unlike a former prime minister of the red-green parties, Left believes that when there are frictions between the system and the individual, someone has to stand up for the individual. All shall have equal opportunities in life: children growing up in poverty, drug addicts, refugees and individuals facing the A4 system. Everyone is different, but everyone can contribute to the community. It's a liberal responsibility to take care of each other, and especially those who need it the most. In this big session, the government will present its proposal on the drug reform, a reform that the red-greens never managed to deliver because of disunity and political cowardice, but which is absolutely necessary, changing our whole thinking about how we meet people with drug addiction. We're going to remove the distrust between drug users and public agencies. We're going to give them the health care they need, and the police are going to spend resources on crime and not on disease. Freedom and equal opportunities for all are the responsibility of the Left in politics. In this big session, there will be a lot of blows about this: the drug reform, the climate communication – which shows how to achieve the 2030 objectives – and the freedom reform in higher education, for example. They will all be proposals that are both demanding and necessary but make Norway a better country. Improving is always possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2724	Right now, many municipalities are struggling with red figures in their budgets because they have to pay the bill for measures during the coronary epidemic. Among other things, there are large costs related to kindergarten and school. We see that sick leave in kindergartens has gone up. Half of the kindergartens say they have a lower economy because of the costs of infectious diseases. The government has said to compensate the municipalities, but that has not happened. That's why the Workers' Party has proposed an extra billion to municipalities to avoid cutting schools and kindergartens. Unfortunately, the right-wing government has said no to that, but they have not submitted their plan for compensation to the municipalities. Now a new school year is going on, and then I ask the Minister of Knowledge for answers on whether the government in the next crisis packages will make sure that the municipalities get the money they lack, so as to avoid cutting school, kindergarten or care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2733	I understand that there has been a very difficult time in many municipalities. A lot of people have gotten new jobs. They've solved them very well. And there are also a lot of people who have increased expenses. The government has already compensated the local government sector quite heavily, up from 20 billion. NOK, and we have also always been very clear that the extra expenses that the municipalities get in connection with the Korona should be covered by the government. So it's also that it takes time to get an overview of all the expenses and also all the factors that are involved in the finances of the municipalities. I would also like to warn against a tendency for us now to go in and earmark funds for very specific sectors of the local government budgets. Because we actually have local democracy in this country, and we control the municipalities in such a way that we lay some framework, and then they have to figure out where it's most important to use funds in exactly their municipality. Some municipalities may have very high costs for temporary workers in kindergarten, while others have had very high costs of care for the elderly. We have to see the sum of this, and then of course we have to set up for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2740	It's in the municipalities that people live their lives, and there's hardly anything more important the government can do than make sure that the municipalities are able to deliver the services people depend on, whether it's the vulnerable children in school or kindergarten or the elderly in the hospitals. «The sum», which the Council of State is talking about: we see the whole thing quite clearly, there are red numbers out in the municipality of Norway because the municipalities are not compensated for the costs they have incurred for the corona. I think they care less about the exact way or in which budget line the money comes, than they actually get compensated. The tone we've heard from the government this past week is like what we heard from Minister of Health Bent Höie when he said to the VG on September 29th: «Communities which have to cut in the offer to the inhabitants may owe themselves». [[...]] We are in the middle of a pandemic that has resulted in extra expenses for the municipalities, and I ask again the answer that I asked for on the question: When are the municipalities going to get no compensation for their corona expenses? Will it come in the next, if any, crisis packages from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2754	As I also replied in my previous post, the municipalities have already been compensated with up to 20 billion. kr. We have also had our own compensations for the loss of parental pay in both kindergartens and SFOs, and we have set aside our own posts for what we thought were extra important bets within kindergarten and school, among other things. an entirely separate post for the vulnerable children, so that they get an extra follow-up. We have also assigned a separate post to digital education, which means that municipalities are better equipped in the event of increased home education. However, I think that the principle that the municipalities themselves should decide exactly what the money should be used for is important, and it is a little important that we do not go beyond that principle even if we are in a very special situation. Kommune-Norge is very different – I think the representative Henriksen is also fully aware of that. In municipalities where there has been a lot of infection, you may have had a lot of expenses. In municipalities where there is less infection, there are other things that go into budgets. It's important that we actually spend some time getting a good overview of the situation in Municipality-Norway. And then, of course, the government is going to set up also beyond the fall, as we did in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2761	I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister on his new role as party leader and thinking of following up on something I asked the previous party leader, who was also the Minister of Knowledge, and it is about regulating private kindergartens. The Councils of State mentioned freedom reforms and that cooperation between municipalities, state and private kindergartens is a very successful both freedom and welfare reform, and private kindergartens have been important to ensure the most important thing for many families with children, i.e. adequate childcare facilities. A number of suggestions were sent to the hearing, so-called open questions, where the government had not pointed out the direction, but asked for feedback before it was to be concluded. These have now been thoroughly highlighted by the private nursery sector. Many have received much criticism. Will the Minister of Knowledge listen to the sector’s input and scrape the points where most criticism has been received, such as: making changes to pensions grants without seeing the financing in its entirety, as well as the requirement that multiple kindergartens be organised as a separate legal entity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2768	Thank you for the question. I share the representative's commitment that we must have a diversity in the kindergarten sector, because I think it gives us freedom of choice, but it ensures not least good quality in all kindergartens. Often we have seen that private kindergartens have just taken the lead in developing quality, and that is one of the reasons why it has been important for both the Left and the Advance Party to ensure that we have that diversity. So it's right, as the representative said, that there were a number of proposals that were sent out at the hearing. The goal was to draw up a conclusion on all the proposals during the spring, but because of the very special situation we were in, we found out that it was a bad time both to get the proposals properly processed and also to have a good dialogue with the sector. We are committed to having a good dialogue with the sector. At the same time, we are concerned that we have to make sure that money that has been allocated to use on children is spent on children. That is why we are now creating, among other things, State supervision to follow up on the economy, so that we strengthen that very part. We also need to ensure that that supervision has the tools needed to ensure that the money is spent on the best interests of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2778	I would like to bring up the thread where the previous representative left it. Schools and kindergartens have been faced with new and demanding challenges that none of us had faced at the turn of the year. The distance between the reality description presented by the government and the one that the municipalities report back to us in opposition is great, and in a survey from Response's Analysis on behalf of the Education Association equals 65 pst. by the directors that they have been given enough, little or no promise of money to cover additional costs in the future. The majority of kindergarten administrators believe that the economy is worse now than before the coronary outbreak, and the principals report that they do not have the money to cover temporary workers’ costs, while the health absence increases as a result of the rules on infectious diseases, because even if there is no outbreak of infection, you must necessarily be at home if you have signs of illness. I wonder then: does the Council of State understand that schools and kindergartens now need predictability and security to be able to operate properly for the rest of 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2787	I fully understand that this is a very demanding time to be both the headmaster, kindergarten manager and also the school owner and kindergarten owner. However, I would like to stress that from the very day one, the government has been very clear that expenditure directly linked to the corona – whether there is an increase in cleaning, whether there are temporary costs, whether there are overtime costs, or whether there are other expenditures that we know that schools and kindergartens have – is clearly part of what we include in the calculation when we look at what we are going to compensate the municipal sector for. I can also assure the representative Knutsdatter Strand that we have a very close dialogue with the municipalities, and that we also have close dialogue with all the trade unions and others who report on this everyday life. However, as I said in my reply to the representative Henriksen, I do not think it is right that we should go in and override the local government sector. In fact, the priorities have to be done locally. There are considerable local differences in their spending, and then it is important that local politicians make sure that money is allocated where it is most needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2794	The centre party definitely agrees that it is through the framework that we have to put extra effort here. Our point is that the 20 billion government boasts, is not enough. Both employees and the economy are far-reaching, and from all over the country, kindergarten educators and primary and secondary school teachers report the consequences of poor finances. In danger of driving the economy even more negatively because the government has not yet specified what comes from funds, the brakes are on out in the municipalities. Is the state council concerned about the situation that has arisen as a result of the lack of money, and that there is a tough and uncertain situation around in some kindergartens and schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2801	The government has always been concerned that municipalities should provide children and young people with what they are entitled to offer. This means, for example: there is no room for special education cuts or to reduce the offer in any way. It is important to give priority to kindergarten and school, and for example: ensure that you put in temporary workers where there is a high level of sick leave. Then we've been very clear that these are expenditures that are involved in calculating how to compensate the local government sector. As far as more details are concerned, I suggest that the representative challenge the municipal minister, who can certainly answer a little better than me, but there will be many opportunities during the autumn, where we will come back to how to compensate the municipalities. I can reassure the representative with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2808	From leaks from the coming government budget, it may appear that the government is continuing its unsuccessful project with the need test for cheaper SFOs for low-income families instead of applying to all children. The scheme has been evaluated. It's not working. It is not used by the parents and children who need it the most. The fact that the government continues this project after such a discouraging evaluation is probably only about bad conscience, all the time the differences have increased day by day with Erna Solberg in government. But testing for needs is a trap of poverty. It's stigmatizing, it's bureaucratic, and it's not least heavy. SV believes that the welfare state should provide universal welfare goods. In Oslo, SV introduces free SFO into the city by city with almost 100 pst. digestion. Isn't it time for the government instead of continuing with a scheme that doesn't work for those who need it the most, to consider what actually works?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2813	Now I am very uncertain about what evaluation the representative refers to, because the project with a reduced price of SFO was introduced in August this year, it has worked for a few months, and I have not yet seen any evaluation of it. But if the representative is sitting on information other than what I am doing, I am of course interested to hear about it. This government's policy has been to give more priority to those who need it the most, both because we think it's a proper use of money, and because it allows bets that we wouldn't get if we were to insist that all the goods should be universal. If, for example: had been that we wouldn't give free kindergarten to those who need it the most, because we had to give it to everyone first, we wouldn't have been able to afford to carry out that reform. It is a reform that costs billions. When we do free core time for just those who need it, it costs approx. One and a half billion dollars. This means that it will be possible to implement it, and as a result of this policy, thousands of children in Norway have had free kindergarten. Now many children will get cheaper SFO because of the policy that the government implements, and there is something that SV never got when they put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2820	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2825	The responsibility for combating the coronary epidemic lies with the nation states, but in this special year, 2020, as all the countries of the world have been hit by the pandemic, we have also been illustrated by the need for effective international cooperation. At the same time, the pandemic has also reinforced the counter-crime against international cooperation: more isolation and nationalism and increased major activism. This is the backside when Norway takes up space around the table in the UN Security Council in a few weeks. I look forward to cooperation in the Storting on the important issues on the Security Council's agenda, and how Norway can contribute to promoting effective and committed international cooperation – because we are not the strongest alone. Firstly, we need the EEA Agreement to secure jobs and value added across the country. Secondly, Norway's security is best ensured through cooperation with our allies in NATO. Thirdly, it is necessary for countries such as Norway to take responsibility as members of the UN Security Council. Fourthly, we need to cooperate with our friends and allies in Europe and respond with the EU when our neighbouring country violates international law by using military power to try to change borders. These four points aren't obvious. In Norway, there is political disagreement on these four issues in this Chamber. In a time of growing contradictions, it is good that we are united on key values in Norwegian foreign and security policy, but that does not mean that we have to stop debating. The more ambition we have in foreign policy, the more debate we need on foreign policy choices. And I want to especially challenge the government in three areas. The first concerns development policy. I believe that we contribute too much to political sementing in the recipient countries and too little to social change. More than today, we need to use assistance as a political instrument to achieve distribution, to deal with climate change and in the fight for women to be able to control their own bodies. So the government can certainly point to some aid projects that contribute to precisely these objectives, but today there is a little too much for everyone, and too little development policy that contributes to real societal change in the beneficiary countries. Development policies are also policies, not charities. Secondly, there is a need for the defence now to have political decision-making capacity and measures that can rapidly increase its defence capabilities. The decision-making process in defence policy must end. We need clear choices as to which defence concept the Army will build on, and which ships the Maritime Defense will have in the future. We don't need at least more people in the Defense Department, out in the Operational Departments. According to the recent head of defence, several people are the most important single measure to increase the defence capacity of Norway. And with the challenges of civil aviation and the maritime sector now facing, the defense has very good opportunities to get hold of skilled professionals. The third and last challenge – at least in this context – is the need for new initiatives and a change of pace, both in the area of peace and reconciliation policy and in the area of disarmament policy. Norwegian conflict resolution diplomacy is actually effective resource use. By helping to prevent and stop armed conflicts, human lives can be saved. Destruction can be averted, radicalisation can be prevented, and flight can be avoided. In the area of disarmament policy too, we now need new ideas and a settlement with the watershed. We need new initiatives to steer the development of new technologies, such as: self-guided weapons, and we need a settlement with water retention in the disarmament policy. With our NATO membership, we can play an important bridge builder role, and that role is necessary for us to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2840	Creating value, creating values, it sounds beautiful – create what we're going to live on. That's the sum of everything we create, that makes Norway the amazing society with the unique arrangements we have today – the sum of your and everyone's work, the sum of the raw materials we bring out and sell, the sum of the products that are being developed, the sum of innovation, creativity and hard work. That's the way it's been for generations, and it still has to be. Norway has had fun at different times, but we have always been good, and we work hard. We have good innovators, and we've historically managed to get a lot out of it. We are not politicians who create jobs – perhaps except when we create a new supervision or a new directorate – but the real value creation and the thousands of jobs we need are created by people, entrepreneurs, private capital, private risk will. We have a strong public sector, and we still have to. When I say that we want growth to come first in the private sector, it is not an attack on the public sector. On the contrary – there is support for the public because it is the private value creation that pays for the public services. We've won the World Cup in the public sector. We have the largest. We have won the World Cup in public ownership on the stock exchanges. We have the largest. So with the largest public sector and the most state-owned stock exchange in the Western world – is that really where we're going to come in? Strengthen public ownership and expand the public sector? Of course not. Growth must come in the private sector. The share of private equity on the stock exchange must increase. Private ownership needs to be strengthened. We have to facilitate the flow of capital into and through private companies. We must ensure that we do not have taxes that unfairly affect Norwegian ownership. It must not pay off with foreign ownership. Therefore, we must continue to lower taxes on working capital, so that even more of the value creation can be ploughed back to the enterprises. Norway needs to change, regardless of whether one is a globalist or a nationalist, whether one is a pessimist or an optimist. Norway has to change. The world is in a huge change. We can hang out, or we can hang out. In some areas, we can even lead. But we have – we have to – to change. In the last few months, we've seen many good examples of business being able to change quickly. As in previous crises, we see that creativity flourishes – obviously, need still teaches «a naked woman to spin». In my own municipality we have a traditional production company. If you have pressed the washer in your car, there is a washer fluid from Wilhelmsen Chemicals in the municipality of Fäder that you know about. This company decided on 13 March to convert parts of the production. They emptied the warehouse for plastic bottles and stoppers in all possible and impossible colours and shapes. That is why for a long time hand spirits were found in different and odd packagings, but from the same company. Converting to hand alcohol production on 13 March is innovation in practice. Hello the innovators in Norwegian business! They're our engines into the value of the future. Not all industries have been able to find opportunities in this crisis. Some industries still see very dark clouds in the horizon. While the groceries industry, for example: goes better than ever, labors, among other things. the travel and event industries are very heavy. We must and must find good arrangements for this. That doesn't mean that there won't be anyone going over the edge, but we have to work to help those who were basically healthy businesses with life's rights. An area that will be crucial to our success in the transformation and increased value creation of the coming years is inclusion. We have to include more. It's value creation. Norway is a country with small differences. We still have to be. The greatest difference is between those of us who have a job to go to, and those who have no reason to set the alarm clock when they lie down. If you're out of work, the difference with those inside is huge. It's about economics, it's about self-esteem, and it's about human dignity. The difference in earning a penny at work versus receiving a penny from Nav is great for self-esteem and for the social economy. Those who are outside have to get inside. Those who work a little today must be allowed to work more. Is it difficult to get a job because of language skills, and then we have to make sure that more Norwegian teachers. If there is health, mental or physical, that makes you unable to work, we need to facilitate the workplace, strengthen health care and remove obstacles. If there is a lack of competence, either because the nature of the work has changed, or it has been a long time since learning the job, we must fill in, strengthen the training of those who are in the labour market, and provide the right to education for those who are on the threshold of working life. The bills for Norway as a nation do not go up if they are prescribed. We have to create more, otherwise welfare will force itself forward. Some people think that we can raise taxes by 10, 20 or 30 billion. kr and thus curtail the well-being, but it is to treasure itself, to rewrite an old oral cavity. We have to create values that guarantee well-being as we know it. But we cannot, as our honourable red-green competitors seem to believe, treasure our well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2863	It has been and are still uncertain times. Many have experienced uncertainties during the pandemic. How is it going to go with me and my family? Will my parents and grandparents survive a possible infection? How will my children deal with the fear of what is happening in the world? Will the business I'm working on survive? How can I serve the mortgage if I lose my job? Many have it tough, many have become ill, many have died, many have lost the job, many have been permised, and we have all experienced a lot of uncertainty. Everyone understands that during the pandemic there is more uncertainty than before, and some have also marked it heavily on the wallet. Hopefully this will be temporary, and gradually we'll gradually get back to normal. But especially many older ones are hit extra hard by the pandemic. Many have experienced long-term isolation, and many are concerned that they are at risk if they first become infected. At the same time, many older people are also concerned about their retirement. For many years, the country's pensioners have been under-regulated. Since Stoltenberg was brought together in 2011, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party to enter into the pension settlement, the country's pensioners have been slowing down. Yes, they passed a law that said that the country's pensioners would be subject to their pension every year. It has also led to a negative purchasing power development for several years. Only the Progress Party voted against. Since then, the Progress Party has repeatedly made proposals to improve the status of pensioners, both in government and outside government. I am proud that we have had a good impact, for example. to reduce the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners – to strong protests from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The country's pensioners should notice this. How the Workers' Party and the Centre can see the country's pensioners in their eyes and know that they want married and cohabiting pensioners to have their pension reduced is incomprehensible to me. Because only pensioners will have to cut off their income if they are married or cohabited. This does not apply to other groups. It's not a big-ass couple, either. The country's pensioners deserve honesty and honesty. Right, Left and Christian People's Party is at least honest. They say that the country's pensioners should be under-regulated. They are honest that, in their opinion, the country's pensioners are going to have a worse development year after year than the rest of society. But the Workers' Party, the architect of the pension agreement and the mother of the underregulation, are today promoting proposals for changes. Yes, the Workers' Party claims they want to change today's underregulation. They want to replace it with another kind of underregulation. Outside this hall would be called a bluff, but since it's an unparliamentary expression, I'm not going to say it here. But let's see what their comrades want. The Socialist Left Party has stated that they agree with the Progress Party that the underregulation they themselves were involved in is going to go away, but it helps little, all the time they at the same time want to promote proposals to increase the taxes on the country's pensioners, so that you really are left with less than today. The central party wants to reduce the pension to married and cohabiting pensioners, and they have agreed loyally with the Labour Party against the proposal of the Progress Party to abolish the underregulation. The country's pensioners deserve better. They deserve a decent pension. They deserve a fair annual regulation of the pension. I am therefore challenging all the other parties today to support the following proposals, which the Progress Party and I now promote: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken by the government, which together will help to eliminate the impact of annual under-regulation of pensions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2883	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2888	For seven years, people in Norway have fought a battle against centralization and over-control, first against the Right and the Advance Party in government, then against the Right with the Advance Party as a supporting party to the government. The Central Party believes that one of the most important things to do as elected people is to listen to people, but it seems that the government controls a country with people they have little faith in, and spends more time listening to the EU and Brussels than to people who want to keep the study offer at Nesna or the police in Engerdal. The Right Party and the Advance Party have used force to get through the merging of states like the Inland, Viken and Troms and Finnmark, and large municipalities that no one would have. The Right Party and the Advance Party have been responsible for the systematic removal of jobs from the districts. It's smaller and larger things separately that make up a huge amount of total. They have centralised the police, removed the tax collection function in many municipalities, built down traffic stations, destroyed the taxi industry and closed down important study places in the districts — to name a few. Local authorities have received more and more claims and expenditure under the Right and the Advance Party in government without any corresponding increase in revenue. The result is that many municipalities throughout Norway are now in an extremely difficult economic situation and, in the worst case, have to lay down schools and hospitals in order to avoid the ROBEK list. The centre party believes it is deeply serious that the right is sitting and causing this, doing nothing and using municipal economy to drive closures around Norway. All of this sells out to the right with fine words, such as: conversion, but for the Central Party, centralisation is the right word. Norway is a country based on the use of nature and resources we have in forests, in the sea and in the mountains. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have also been responsible for liberalisation and centralisation in agriculture, and they have promoted the privatisation and sale of our natural resources, such as: when a German foundation got to buy 600 000 dekar forest in Trøndelag recently. And through an unfair predatory policy, the government has made it impossible to have animals on land in large parts of Norway and taken from people's livelihoods and the basis for some of the most environmentally friendly food production we have in the world. The government refuses to listen to people who say that the pressure from the wolf, bear, yurt and yurt is enormously difficult to live with. Instead of following up the rapture agreement and taking out several predators, they try to remove power from local democracy by centralizing the predatory wildlife denominators and having central bodies without democratic anchoring to govern people's everyday lives. When the government, the Right Party and the Advance Party, trodden through the so-called near-police reform, it was also without listening to democracy and people. The task of deciding which officers' offices were to be closed was sent to the Police Directorate. There are bureaucrats and not elected people, and it's a constant problem and a value issue that the government is moving decision-making power from the populace to democracy, and to organs with people who never have to answer people in elections. After the so-called near-police reform, preparedness and prevention have been built all over Norway. Over 1 100 police officers have disappeared from nearly 200 municipalities during the reform. The government has closed 122 LEN's offices, and of the offices that remain, there are many who have gained fewer employees and lost authority over their territory. We are seriously concerned at the Central Party for the security of people after the centralisation that the government has implemented in terms of preparedness. In most of the exclamations, the fire service is now first on site, even in serious incidents, for example: knife violence, where the police are obviously the main culprits. It puts a huge burden on the fire department locally, it puts people in dangerous situations, and it shifts costs from state to municipality. When the police disappear, it also threatens trust and respect for the police. The criticism of the police reform, which has been centralized, comes not only from the districts, but also from the largest cities. For example, high-ranking police officers in Bergen recently went out and said that the police reform has made it almost impossible to do preventive work anymore. It's in Bergen's neighbourhoods, and it's serious. We want good preparedness across the country and a police force that's close to people and knows the community. Politics is about values, and if we want people to live in the whole country, the government must stop centralizing services, jobs and preparedness away from people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2913	There are probably few reforms that are more divisive than the near-police reform – a reform that was absolutely necessary, but which is not in the vicinity of the reform actually adopted by the Stortinget. We were supposed to have a more like and closer to the police now – the Yørv Commission said that the most important emergency response facility in Norway is the local police. People still feel that the police won't come when they need it. As my colleague in the Committee on Legal Affairs said, the fire and rescue service must largely be temporary police in much of the country. Spokespersons crash and will send the bill to the state. Victims of crime stand in very long queues in the criminal chain, while criminals receive a penalty discount. Preventing it from counting quantitatively, losing. If one takes this up with the Minister of Justice, for example, such added and elected representatives of the South East police district before the weekend, then it is a shame that the police chief and those in the South East police district have to take responsibility for reaching the police coverage that has been measured and for keeping their budget. I'm being provoked by this. I think we need a Minister of Justice who takes political leadership responsibility, and it doesn't seem now that the Right's attempt to hire out justice policy is going to do that. It is not that we can just sit still and wait for this reform to work. It has to be seized, it has to be cleaned up, as the many ministers of the Progress Party said they would do, and now it is the Right who is responsible for it. The working party wants to change the course. We want to strengthen the overall police force in the outer chain. We will review the role of the Police Directorate. We need to ensure that resources go out where the community mission is carried out. Efficiency and red tape should be done in the country, but one should not do so using the right method, through flat cuts that do not have clear targets. We want a plan for the digitisation of the courts. We want to reintroduce a criminal court that has a punishment that works and that has faith in rehabilitation. And we want to keep a decentralised court structure. The Labour Party has for several years put forward a number of proposals to counter the alarming trend in recriminalism. Our concerns extend beyond the capital. In Lørenskog, the police district of Aust only has a handful of people dedicated to recriminalism, although it is reported that the gangs are growing and becoming more brutal, and that young people are recruited to one or more of the criminal gangs in the community as far as their age is concerned. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a permanent effort against recriminalism in cooperation with the municipalities, and I think it must put in place the exit program for recriminals that lead to a better chance of breaking out of the criminal environment. Unfortunately, the efforts of the right-wing government are too poor, and the police are also not put in a good enough position to do the powerful job that should have been going on for the longest time. Nor is there a single word for this in the throne of the government. In order to reduce social and geographical inequalities in Norway, new forces are needed. The law shall be the same for all throughout the country, and then the excessive centralization must end. The tax conference for those who already have the most must end, and the welfare state must become stronger and not be exposed to privatisation. The Workers' Party's proposal for the party programme is clear that we should have a stronger district policy, where we want to introduce, among other things. a principle of subsidiarity in all assessments to be made. Differences in this country must be brought down. It is deeply unfair that the one percent richest in Norway pay less taxes on each brand of heads than most people do. It is not a good thing that families, small children's families, lose their spectacles, while with the most money they can toast in champagne over the tax gifts from the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Prom. The economic differences between people in Norway are greater than we've ever seen, something that many people have pointed out in today's debate. It's a social development that the Workers' Party will turn around. To get to that, we need a new multiple -- a multiple for justice, for security, and for minor differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2936	The right acknowledges that there have been many reforms in recent years, and we also recognise that this is a demanding work, but a necessary effort to prepare Norway for the future. The center party is most concerned with the number of offices, including the police, which we have just heard. The Central Party will return to the 1990s police force and will not listen to heavy professional recommendations in the Police Analysis or in the Gjørv Commission report. First, the Center Party was to open all lumbarist offices, contrary to professional recommendations. In 2019, the same batch was budgeted to open 20 out of 126 offices. Now they dare no longer say how many offices to open. If all Länsmann offices are to be opened and staffed in order to handle the tasks assigned to them and the old police districts are to return, as promised by Lundtigen in the Official Journal of Drammen, there will not only be an organisational chaos in the police, but it will also have to be budgeted thereafter. The bill is at a point between three billion. and 4 billion. kr, and that money has so far not been included in its alternative budgets. In other words, we risk sending a billion bill to the taxpayers and just sitting here with an increased police bureaucracy, middle managers and many expensive rent contracts. The police have been budget winners every year during this government. We've strengthened the police by over $4.4 billion. kr, and we reach the goal of two policemen per thousand inhabitants this year. Last week, a historic effort was announced to the police: 400 temporary corona police posts will be permanent, and the budget for 2021 will be the biggest boost to new, permanent police posts in modern times. It means over 2,100 more policemen in total in our government period, or more than 3,200 new police officers. In recent years, the police have been modernized and adapted to today's crime scene. The police have been given new technical equipment and new cars. They train more, they are more visible, they are more present — both online and elsewhere — and they are prepared to deal with serious crime. Last week I was in a meeting with the East Police District. With the crime scene we see today, the police's clear message is that it would not have been possible to achieve presence or response time with an old structure. Police reform and the digitisation of the police have helped to solve crime challenges that would not have been possible with the old organisation. The complexity of the crime scene supports the fact that the reform was entirely in place, we were told. For the prevention work, I am pleased that it was highlighted that one of the benefits of the reform has just increased the focus on cooperation with the municipalities through the work of the SLT. It's now standardised what's being addressed in the local police councils, and they could tell us that they're getting reports of police councils that work much better than before. Last September, the Oslo police took action against what turned out to be a comprehensive and international network of organised crime. TV 2, who covered the case, quoted Section Manager Rune Skjold of the Oslo Police Department, who said: ‘We were given the opportunity, through the police reform, to put together different disciplines for which we have not had so much tradition in the past. Then we could use the entire toolbox that the police have, and thus follow a heavy criminal network in Oslo." In the North Lights today we can read that Lenin Ole Johan Skogmo in Nord-Troms tells us that the reform has been a great success. He states that all measurable parameters show that both preparedness, visibility and police services have become much better. Lensmann Arnold Nilsen in Finnsnes County believes that the reform has worked well. But it won't stop there. Even Central Party rapporteur Dan Håvard Johnsen in Lyngen is positive. Most people will probably agree that this is a good example of the reform. Even the Central Party can well acknowledge these positive reports about the police's new organization, or listen to people to whom Emilie Enger Mehl has just encouraged us all. We must not make people think that they are not protected by the police just because the police headquarters are located in the neighbouring municipality. The 1990s police force, as the Center Party wants, often closed the door at noon. 15, or often, the janitorial offices were unmanned. An expensive, closed building provides no real security for people either in the city or in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2962	The country's most important task is to secure the nation against internal and external enemies. Yes, it is the very foundation that creates legitimacy for state formation. Security — security for most people — is absolutely fundamental in a society. First of all, we have to use a lot of what we're talking about here, in the field of justice – in addition to what's going on in defence – and then we have to implement the changes that social development requires us to do. But we also need to be able to meet the challenges we are looking forward to. Then, I would say, a gruesome example in our neighbouring country, Sweden, which over time, because of a completely headless immigration policy, has seen the emergence of crime to an extent that is almost difficult to believe. We are talking about Sweden, our neighbouring country: gang and youth crime, urban areas that are sometimes out of control, and now last reports about clan networks that are taking over societal functions and infiltrating authorities, local policies and businesses with the aim of committing crime and enriching themselves. It's a development we can never accept in Norway. When you see that we're on our way there, it's important that you take the necessary measures to prevent it, stop it and fight it as quickly as possible. The Progress Party has put forward proposals on which we will be considering later in the autumn, concrete measures to stop gang and juvenile delinquency. It is a clear response – that the police may have to allow themselves to go a bit tougher than they have done in the past, that they are using the opportunities to administer punishment, and perhaps those who are responsible for criminal matters and under 18 years of age should also be able to be imprisoned to a very different extent than they have had so far – and on the responsibility of parents. We cannot allow it to slip out, and that we are approaching what is referred to as Swedish states. Let it be quite clear: the Party of Advancement stands out clearly. I note that this is a debate about the police reform. It can be hard to understand that you're on the same planet when you listen to the Center Party, and when you listen to the Right. There is no doubt: there were good reasons why the Storting adopted the reform that the government has now implemented over time — good reasons, well-founded, highly professionally justified. It has been said here in the debate and referred to Nordlys today: in Nord-Troms and Mid-Troms, very good experience has been gained with the police reform – a completely correct description. But that picture is not necessarily the same all over the country. That is why it is important now to deal with the police communication, that we look at any adjustments that may be necessary to make a good reform even better. Nothing shall be stoned. One of the things that concerns me is that we see a lot of places that there are obviously too few police patrols out there. It's about getting help from the police when you need it. I think there's a lot of reasons why it's been like this. One thing is that attention has focused on one focus. It's been about two per thousand, two police servants and men per thousand inhabitants. It's a very important goal, which the Big One has set, but which maybe makes you choose to hire people in functions that aren't necessarily the most expensive. Patrols are expensive. I hope that the principle of subsidiarity will continue to be given high priority when you know that patrols nearby can act quickly when the accident is over. I am not in the vicinity of sharing the description of the centre party. It's simply not true. The police reform is well-founded, but that does not mean that no changes can be made along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e2973	From police reform to family policy. In the Granavolden platform: ‘Family policy shall support family life and allow families to organise their own lives. There should be serious arguments when politics interferes with the freedom of families to control their own lives." These lines, yes, this perspective, are the Christian People's Party factor in the government's family policy, a family policy that I'm very proud of. Unfortunately, we see that the pressure on families is increasing from the community around them. This certainly does not help many political parties to send out strong signals that women should return to work more quickly, that the State and the public should take on important tasks for families, and that families should not be able to avail themselves of schemes that increase their freedom of choice. This is what the last families need, and here there is also a clear ideological difference in the view of families. For example, when the other parties in their new programme draft propose to remove the cash support because they consider it to be a barrier to the working line, and they prefer to replace it with so-called waiting support, families are reduced to a means of achieving their policy objectives. Rather, the Christian People's Party will remove the obstacle that stands in the way of building strong families, because families are a goal in themselves. A waiting aid cannot in any way replace the cash support. Yes, it may be able to solve the practical during a transitional period for some, but unfortunately a waiting support sends a strong and sad signal that the goal of these parties is that absolutely everyone should send their children to kindergarten as quickly as possible, and that the freedom of choice, the possibility of being a little longer at home with their one-year-old, is reserved only for those families who have good advice. What does that mean? Well, that means that the Christian People's Party is the only party on the Stortinget that really wants families to have freedom of choice and flexibility. We recognize that families are different, that parents are the most important caregivers, and that they know best what's good for their children, and what's going on for their everyday lives to jump. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen the families, not to rule them. Yes, we are the guarantor of the cash support itself, but not only that: in recent years we have also more than doubled the one-time benefit for those who are expecting children but who are outside the labour market or who have not earned the right to parental leave. From next year, the lump sum will be over 90000 kroner. For us, this is important; it is important to facilitate that even those who have not earned the right to parental leave can afford to give birth to the world. Child protection had been very quiet since 1996. It has increased the Christian People's Party, after we came into government, for two rounds – at the latest now with NOK 300 more per month for children between 0 and 6 years of age. It will mean a lot too many, and especially for those families that have low incomes, or those families that have more small children. In addition, we have a leisure card for all children and young people between the ages of 6 and 18. Because when we know how important it is for this age group to be involved in organised activities — experience community, experience mastery — we have to make sure that absolutely everyone has the opportunity to participate. We have also provided free kindergarten and SFO for the families who need it most, and an offer of a life course for all first-time parents. Now, we're also increasing the first time we've invested in the family project by $45 million. kr. The project shall contribute to the safety of first-time birthers in their mother’s role and to their learning of good child care. The Christian People's Party is serious when we say we want to strengthen the families. We will stand up for their freedom of choice, show them confidence and talk up the families and family life every time we get the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3002	I have been involved in a lot of persuasion debates – a lot of people would say. But I have to say at the same time that this might be the most special of all the debates, not because we've got minority government, we've had many times, not because it's soon presidential elections in the United States, it's every four years, and not because Lillestrøm Sports Club doesn't play in top division, although it's the first time in 45 years. No, this throne debate is special because with Norwegian eyes we have record high unemployment as a result of the virus outbreak in ours. It's the most important job we now have: to make sure that unemployment doesn't get stuck. All our efforts must now be directed towards getting more people to work. We have to have an up-to-date business with solid businesses. The representatives of the government parties say in the debate that a lot is going well in Norway, and that most people are doing well. Yes, of course it is, and it was supposed to be missing. But how good it is for those who are already doing well is not an objective of how successful the policy is, at least not alone. The job now is for those who have challenges in everyday life to get better, and that is what the government has to measure. Should people have a job to go to, the wheels must be on. People have to have jobs, people have to pay taxes to the community, we have to keep the activity up, and we have to build the country. That is why we must build the Eastfold Railway, the Dovreban, the Westfold Railway and the Ringeriks Railway. We need to electrify the Trunder Railway and the Meråker Railway. We have to build a new road and a railway between Bergen and Voss. We have to build the City Ship Tunnel, we have to build our roads, we have to expand public transport in the big cities, and we have to invest in good practices on the railways. We have to build the country together, and we have to trust each other. Actually, all political work is about two aspects: trust and security. Trust in society is gradually becoming confused if the differences become too large. It can't be us and them, it must be us. Therefore, it makes no sense that management wages are now running smoothly, even in public companies. It doesn't make any sense that the new VY director has to make more than five million. kr per year – ten times as much as a bus driver in the Vy server. Why do we have this bias in society? And the differences are increasing. Those who have the most, get even more, and those who have little, fall backwards or – at worst – get less. There is no law of nature that says it should be like this. There is no law of nature that says it should continue like this. No, this is the result of the policy pursued. Why in the world should the Vy-director earn ten times as much as a bus driver? Is there any reason for that? Is it possible to argue for it at all? Where are those who sit on the boards, and who are on this, and who decide this? They are appointed and appointed by the Government. It is clear that we can put an end to this, and it is clear that we can pursue a different policy. With such a policy, we do not build trust, and that is damaging to our society. Finally, we have great opportunities in our beautiful country. Then we have to make the right choices now. Then we'll have to build the country together. Then we have to pursue a policy of minor differences. Then we have to secure work for everyone, and then we have to build a society based on trust and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3017	We're lucky to live in a safe country. However, the virus outbreak that has hit us this year shows how social security can be challenged in a short time. The coronavirus has had major consequences for all parts of society. The direct consequence is that life and health are threatened. At the same time, several of the infectious diseases measures have a negative impact on society. In order to maintain security and trust in our society, we must continue to strengthen the systematic efforts to protect ourselves from all sorts of events, regardless of whether they are triggered by nature, by technical or human errors or deliberate actions. The government will continue to strengthen the work of security and preparedness through, inter alia: cross-sectoral, public-private and international cooperation. The threats of radicalisation and violent extremism are another challenge affecting national security. An effective fight against crime is a prerequisite for a safe society. Crime has become more and more complex over decades, and more and more major issues related to the sexual abuse of children are being revealed. In a few years, crime has also become much more digital. Data breaches and digital fraud attempts at public and private businesses hit us almost daily. The virus outbreak has also made us more dependent on digital interaction, which makes us even more vulnerable to digital threats and crime. With an ever-growing crime scene, we need to secure Norway a police force capable of dealing with that development. This was part of the background for police reform, which is now in its final phase. Work has produced good results, but we're not done. The government will further facilitate an accessible police force, which is increasingly present in the community, whether on the street or on data. We have placed great emphasis on increasing police staff, and the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants is reached in 2020. In November this year, the National Emergency Response Centre of the police will open. It represents a major boost to preparedness across the country by bringing together national resources in one place with the best equipment and facilities for exercises and cooperation. The acquisition of the new rescue helicopters is under way and the first helicopters were put into operation on 1 September of this year. The work on establishing a new rescue base in Tromsø has also started. Legal certainty is at the heart of a legal state such as Norway. Available and effective high-quality courts are essential for people’s legal certainty. The anti-infectious measures in relation to the outbreak of the virus have led to fewer cases being closed in courts, and this challenges legal certainty. This is why the government has taken action to maintain the winding-up of the case and to reduce the number of cases in the courts. This also applies to the prosecution authority of the police and the higher prosecution authority. An important prerequisite for low levels of crime in society is not to repeat crimes. Modern prison buildings provide better conditions for both employees and prisoners and facilitate a good content in the settlement. In 2020, new prisons opened in Agder, the country’s largest high-security prison, with a total of 300 places in Mandal and Fromand. The prison marks an important boost for Norwegian criminal justice. Then we're going to continue working on measures to combat isolation in prison and improve the housing conditions for women. We're going into an important magnification session, the last before the big shot in 2021. I look forward to discussing how we should fight crime, how we can further strengthen the quality of the court, and how we can facilitate a criminal justice system that ensures that people, after settlement, come into education or work. We need a justice sector that evolves as we live, and I hope that the debate in Stortinget will be marked by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3040	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3045	The state councils have recently been in my homelands, in my constituency, Telemark, and in the South-East police districts, and that visit did not give very much hope to the elected and added at that meeting. On the front of Telemarksavisa, we could see on Saturday that the Council of State actually disclaims all responsibility, and believe that the rent in the South-East police district must take the lead in reaching the police coverage in the district. The forerunner of the State Council of Malta, Jøran Kallmyr, promised to clear up this situation and pointed specifically to the South-East police district. He didn't get so much done with it, but he recognized at least the problems. My question to the Council of State is: why does the Minister of Justice not take political responsibility for the situation in the police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3054	It's true that I was in Grenland. I've been in at all eleven of the country's twelve police districts for the past few weeks, and I take all political responsibility for the framework conditions that the police have. It is fascinating to hear what the representative said the Workers' Party is concerned about. They spent eight years in government and were responsible for the justice sector. I don't know if the representative has calculated how many new police officers you got in that period. Every year this government has employed five times as many policemen in the police sector as the red-green ones did. As far as the South-East is concerned, their budget has increased by 118 million over these years. kr. In March, there were 54 more employees. In addition, employees come through two per thousand this year, and the temporary posts, so what I came up with, were a gift of half a billion dollars to the police, 400 permanent posts next year. That's the biggest bet ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3064	It says a little when the government starts to want to go back 16 years in time to find answers to their challenges. South-East police district has 20 temporary corona settings. It is very positive if the government makes the positions permanent, but South-East – as one example – will still have very few options, given that they have so much lag. In addition, the government has now ordered police districts to appoint people to reach the target number two per thousand, without paying for it. Then we can come into a situation where a theoretical reaches a target before Christmas, but where the police districts have to begin to denounce people in the springtime. Do we get a better police service if that's the situation we face in 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3069	I understand that you don't want to discuss the relationship between life and learning, but it's clear that the need for preparedness and police was as great in the years of the Labour Party's government as it is now. That is why I am pleased that we have made this effort. It is not that the police have not received money for two per thousand. The police have received it since 2015. Every year, money has come to the goal of two per thousand. It is not a target to be achieved on 1 December of this year. It should be the floor plan of the police coverage in Norway. The government has decided that, and it has actually decided the Storting. Then the police must give priority to what we have decided, namely to reach two per thousand. They've got budgets for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3074	It doesn't seem to matter what the size determines, because Storting has decided that all remaining service locations in Norway should be strengthened. The majority has agreed to strengthen the local police force. It must be just the government party again that really thinks that's what's going on out there, but we can take the rest of the budget debate when we see the brilliant numbers coming there. My last question is about recriminalism, because the developments we see both in Oslo and beyond are alarming. The Labour Party has called for a permanent effort to combat recriminalism, among other things. exit applications that allow us to get the criminals out of the criminal networks. Is this something the government will now work on, or are we still going to carry on with projects by project, year by year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3081	This is something the Workers' Party thought about after they left the government – that it was important to work with. I have visited East Police District, and I visited Oslo last week. There's been a permanent gang crime. It is targeted in metropolitan areas of Oslo against repeat crime. Fortunately, most young people are law-abiding in this city too, but you have some challenges, and they are being addressed. I'm very impressed by the way the Oslo and East police districts are working on this. Yes, we work purposefully, and we work permanently against juvenile delinquency and against repeat crime. In addition, at the hearing, the government has put forward proposals both to strengthen the juvenile sentence, to make it criminal to participate in or to recruit criminal gangs, and also to withdraw without demonstrating the concrete criminal activity from which the benefits of a criminal relationship come. Both the government and the police districts work permanently and targeted against recriminalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3088	I shall allow myself to quote from a hearing opinion on passports from Kripos: ‘The key to the work on biometric clarifications is the details of the facial photographs in passports or national ID cards, including ears. In cases where doubt about biometrics related to two different identities is equal or different, details such as ears are particularly important. Therefore, Kripos considers that clear and unambiguous provisions on requirements for visible ears are important.’» Similar opinions come from the West Police District, the Inland Police District, the Trøndelag Police District, the Trom Police District, the Oslo Police District, the Police Department and the Police Directorate. They're of the same opinion: you have to show your ears on the passport. Then the question is: why has the Minister of Justice accepted the irrational demand that the consideration of religious headgear should go ahead of security and the professional advice given by the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3100	The government has rejected irrational demands. The government has been concerned about how we will have sufficient security for passport issuance in Norway. And, of course, as the representative knows, we're getting new passports and ID cards in place now during October, and in this regard we've had a prescription to consult. Then it's true that someone has wanted visible ears. That's a rule the government introduced in 2014, because we thought it was necessary to have good enough security. The question is: are visible ear requirements required in the new passports and ID cards? So we don't think it is. This has been a strange requirement – only Norway and France have requirements for visible ears. Countries like the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada, which are also very concerned with security, do not have this requirement. We need secure passports. We have, it confirms the Police Directorate. However, we do not need more demands than necessary, and especially when this does not raise human reactions, which feel that this is a discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3109	The centralisation of the police has led to a more frequent and more frequent presence of the fire department. In 2018 it was in nearly 55 pst. of all triple announcements so that the fire service came first. At the beginning of September, the head of fire in Lom and Skåk told of how he experienced the situation that the near-police police have been removed after the near-police reform. He told me that he was the chief of fire, among others. in one case, he had to pull out and disarm a bloody person. It's not okay at all. This was a case on TV 2, and there the police association said that the feedback they received from District Norway was that the police were becoming more and more absent. This leads both to police, firemen and ambulancemen remaining in a difficult situation, and to increased costs for municipalities. So my question is, what does the Council of State actually say to the firemen and ambulancemen who are responsible for not having, and to the municipalities that get the expenses they shouldn't have?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3118	First of all, I would like to say that I don't think you should make it a problem that we have three blue light tattoos that everyone has to save life and health as their first priority. We have institutions that take advantage of each other's competence and quality. It's always a little dangerous to use statistics, but from the statistics we don't know what kind of events this is. We also don't know when the number two food came into being. So we don't know the extent of that. I mean, we're going to go in and look at this. But so far, I don't think it's a big problem that fire only comes if it's a fire, that health only comes if it's health-related, or that the police only come if it's police-related. So we don't know enough about this, but we'll see about it. One of the answers will also be our work now to co-locate the three emergency situations, so that we can better interact and exchange information. I was in Kirkenes, and a great operating centre has been set up where all three floors will work together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3129	For months in winter, the government and the twin-tons sat while the disaster in the Moria camp and Greece unfolded. Just a few hours after the fire, the Prime Minister was out and said to rebuild refugee camps in Europe. Perhaps we should soon stop building refugee camps in Europe. Maybe we should choose to be a leader and not a retard in how we treat people, and take responsibility when other countries get down under the pressure. Right-hand-steered Asker says they can take twice as many as the government has said – they say they can take 100. Does the Council of State with its hands on the heart mean that Greece is just short of money to deal with this crisis, and that only 50 refugees to Norway are all the government powers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3134	First, I'm happy for the community's commitment. We need that because, as the representative knows, there are not 50 refugees we're going to pick up to Norway, that's 3,000. Norway is among the countries in the world which provide the most money in terms of assistance and which receive the most quota refugees in terms of our population. That's good, and that's right – we're going to help. When it comes to the situation in Moria, it's very challenging. We have been working through our meetings in the EU to seek permanent, good, pan-European solutions, not the kind of adhoc solutions that we saw in 2015-2016 and that have again arisen now. We send health care, we send food and medicine, tents, beds and mattresses. It allows us to help as much as possible where they are. Then we've also said that we're going to go get home a number of 50, given that other countries are doing the same thing. It's because we have the experience from 2015 fresh in memory, where Norway was one of the few countries that did what they actually said they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3141	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3147	The throne of right-wing rule has many round turns. After all, it makes sense that the government will protect and take care of our common welfare system, and the Right's slogan that there are people and not billions who count, lie and wake up in the background. And that's exactly in the background we have to look at: what is the real policy behind the fine formulations we see in the throne languages of the right-wing government? What is the government actually doing? I will take some examples and refresh a little what this government is actually implementing of policies: there are taxes on food allowance, taxes on service fees, taxes on commuting, taxes on paid termination benefits, taxes on cost and lodging for workers in employment, curtailment of daily allowances, reduced possibility of loans in the House Bank, curtailment of disability benefits, curtailment of survivors' pensions, curtailment of redundancy payments, curtailment of termination benefits, partiality of physical therapy for chronic diseases, severe underregulation of pensions, real income reduction for pensioners, cut-off of free legal aid, substantial increase in the electricity charge, increased charge on collective transport, increased charge on cinema tickets, football matches, etc., cut-off in the children's allowance for disability, cut-off in support of allergy sufferers and cut-off in the grant scheme for students. Furthermore, they weaken the trade union deduction, there are increased excesses on medical visits and increased maximum price in kindergarten. They have removed the school fruit, and it is cut in the car scheme for disabled people. There has been coercion of counties and municipalities, they have weakened the Working Environment Act, weakened tripartite cooperation and weakened the commercial industry with sugar levy and exemption from charges on online commerce, and they have closed the Rygge Airport with fees increases. There have been attacks on self-determined abortion, they weaken the municipal economy, which was the worst in 15 years last year, they privatise the railway, distribute private health services, weaken local police, centralize courts, tax offices and traffic stations, increase tolls, with record collection in 2019, and give the time tax cut to Norway's richest. This is the real policy behind the fine words of the throne that are served. Ordinary people have to take the bill when cutting welfare schemes and increasing taxes, while in Norway they get tax cuts and better conditions with the best and strongest economy. As historian Francis Sejersted writes: «Rights have always served as a party of interest to the better-advanced in society», and that clearly shows them now. The working party wants something else with Norway. We want more people at work, we want to develop welfare systems, we want to invest in Community solutions. In the last few months, we have clearly shown that we do not solve the challenges of each of us. So the big problems we're going to do are going to be the best we can do. We need to ensure that municipalities have a framework that enables them to provide education, health care and other welfare services to their citizens, and there must be trust between the country and the municipality. We can't have it like we have a government and state councils who choose to sit on their high horse and kick down, as Councillor Höie does when he says that the local government has no control over the economy, after people have stood by day and night to contribute to the hard work. We have to ensure good growth conditions, and if you live in Marker or Meråker, we have to ensure a public health service that is there when you need it, which is there when you get sick. We need to secure a police and a fire department that comes when you need it. We want to use the whole country, we need to decentralize where we can, and we need to bring up an active and offensive district policy that provides opportunities for jobs across the country. The Workers' Party will use all the good forces to strengthen business development, and our common well-being can only be ensured by people having a safe and secure job to go to, that they have services like kindergartens and schools near where they live, that we have a decentralised education, and that we have safe and good health services. In short, we need a stronger community. We need a community that takes responsibility for the big tasks, for value creation and jobs, for a climate policy that works and is fair, for our common welfare country. The policy of the right is not the answer to strengthen the community and balance the differences. It is the social-democratic model of tripartite cooperation and trust among people who want to make Norway better, and it is such a policy that the Labour Party will promote. Then to an explanation of vote. The Labour Party will support the resolution of proposal No. 67 with the following brief explanation of vote: we assume that if this proposal is adopted, the asylum seekers from Greece will be vulnerable persons who are likely to be entitled to protection in Norway, in line with UNHCR recommendations. The proposal made by the Labour Party in April is also widely known.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3162	Now, when Norway is to take one of the most important places in international policy, in the UN Security Council, we are not going to do so to wait for other countries to take precedence over human rights and perform important tasks, and then Norway will follow suit. The fire in the Moria camp underlines the depth of the crisis in the international system to ensure the protection of people in flight. Politically, the UN is struggling. In the case of refugees, no burden-sharing principles are legally binding. So there are no mechanisms that say what it's fair and unreasonable that the distribution should be, and therefore the system depends on some countries going ahead, setting the standard and getting others with it. Therefore, today’s SV proposes that Norway should now comply with the United Nations requests for reception of refugees, how many quota refugees we are going to receive, and that Norway should also follow the UN’s interpretations of our obligations under the Asylum Convention and not operate with its own interpretation, in order to undermine this, as the government has done. This had to be the least we can demand when Norway is now going into this position, and hopefully be leading rather than a delay. A few days ago, I saw Health Minister Höie out in the media and thought that the municipality sector in Norway had messed up a lot of money and got to find something to cut in to get the budgets together. I guess there's a need for more people in government to come out in real life now and see what it's like there. You're sitting in the local government now and you have to cut off the measures that the government stands for here and say they're very much in favour. In addition, in the course of the debate, government councils say that there is no cutback for children, no cutbacks for the elderly, no cutbacks for other people with difficulties. What in the world are the municipalities going to do when the money bag doesn't reach? SV wants us to guarantee for all extra costs municipalities have had, and lost revenues, while the government, for example. State Council Melby, says the government should be involved and covered. The government says "unbelievable expenditure". Well, it doesn't hold at all. The municipalities now sit and cut in the services of the old and the sick, who need more, no less help. I have never heard of any elderly and sick people who have received too much help, but the government does believe that. And the municipalities have to, because the municipal law imposes it on them. They can't wait until next year, when the government has figured this out, they have to do it now, because it's an obligation they have. Then there will be fewer jobs, so that the employees who are already tired will become even more tired. The strip can no longer be stretched. At the same time, we're going to recruit thousands of new workers into these professions. Then more money is needed, not less. SV has proposed to greatly increase the income of municipalities and guarantee that the State will take the bill. In addition, a larger package is needed to use the municipalities as an engine to keep workplaces in operation with maintenance and necessary refurbishment. Yeah, the municipal sector is the security of everyday life for people when there's a crisis, and that's how you have to look at it now, not just use it as an engine, but also see that there's a security that needs to be put in place. It is now undermined, because people have been sitting and losing services, have had to wait and not get help in months after month after month, and now the government clearly believes that you should cut it even more. The last thing we need now is that municipalities need to contribute to increased unemployment, both by cutting their own businesses and by putting maintenance and necessary new buildings on hold. Then it hits the whole country. It also affects the private sector, which needs these jobs for maintenance and new buildings, for the construction industry reports that there are too few jobs now. There are even so few assignments that they don't dare take in apprentices, and it should worry more than SV. For SV, this value option is easy: we will bet on the community, not on private billionaires being taxed. I would also like to address SV's proposal No. 63 and 64.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3191	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3196	Combating poverty is about addressing the underlying causes of poverty. I note that the Labour Party spends a lot of time talking about tax policy, talking about the rich, but says surprisingly little about what they want to do with the underlying causes of poverty. It's going to be a little bit of a meta-level. And then they're very busy with historians from the Right, like Francis Sejersted. Then I would just like to remind you that he has written 'The Age of Social Democracy', in which he actually awards the Scandinavian model, which is about, among other things, stability and social well-being. So those who have written the posts for the Workers' Party may be able to take the trouble of reading the whole book. Social inequality in Norway is primarily about being at work, it's about having an income, it's about having an education, it's about health. All statistics tell that children in low-income families have non-employment-related parents has parents who receive more than half the income in social benefits have parents where one of them has low or no formal education has one of the parents who lives alone Child poverty particularly affects children with a migrant background. The combination of weak occupational relationships between parents and families with many children has led to a lower level of income development for many immigrant families than for the rest of the population. We have to do something about this. More people need to enter the labour market, and we need poverty-smoothing measures. Here the government is taking hold. The government is facilitating more people to get into work. We create jobs, increase skills in the workplace and support those who have not completed secondary education. We are increasing the appropriations in the fields of mental health and alcohol. This is a long-term and systematic work. The government has a strategy against child poverty with 64 concrete measures. I will mention some of this, and I will be specific: free child care core time, reduced parental pay in kindergarten and school leave arrangements, holiday allowances, increased child benefit for the first time in 20 years and doubled one-off benefit for parents who are not entitled to parental leave. We introduce leisure cards, the means to cover participation in various leisure activities, so that children get good friends and not least a network for the future. The housing allowance has increased, so that 18 000 families with children receive up to NOK 8 000 more. The changes have also led to about 1,100 households having a right to housing support, of which 900 are households with children. These are concrete actions that contribute. And we've got a more social NRK funding: we've removed the NRK license and financed it through the tax bill. This makes the scheme become more social. Those who earn more have to pay more. For minimum pensioners, it's free. The government is concerned about young people with disabilities and has set a total of 100 million. kr for children and young people. This should go to the municipalities and contribute to the intrusive relief of relatives and a good offer for rehabilitation and relief. The Korona crisis has shown that poorer functionality and more anxiety and depression are among the consequences for this group. Children should not experience that they do not bring food packages at school. They shall not experience not being allowed to take part in leisure activities or having no opportunity to go on vacation. They shall not meet at school and be regarded as a child of a low-income family. Schools shall counteract social differences. We need a school system that gives everyone equal opportunities and compensates for social background. This does not apply to the policy of the Centre Party, which wants national samples to be replaced by sample samples and the results to be secret. Those who lose the most on such a change will be students who need the tightest and most organized professional follow-up. And the Workers' Party is against the absenteeism limit, admission requirements for teacher training and competence requirements for teachers. Our policies work. Several actually complete high school now than in 2013. And last but not least: permanent work is the main single factor in combating poverty, and good education facilitates it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3230	The year we've been behind us has shown that there's hope for a future where we still stand for each other. The pandemic has claimed too many great sacrifices in everyday life, and for some the most precious. It will change our daily lives in the future. National construction is the story of Norway, a story where the needs and problems in Loppa in Finnmark were just as important to solve as those in Oslo, and about individuals, businesses and communities that have set up for each other. Norway’s strength is that we have stood together – built and town, play and learnt, rich and poor. Under the right, this social promise has been left in practice. The goal of the Central Party is a living rule of the people and the decentralisation of power, labour, capital and residence. It's going to be the basis for future value creation. In order to give the whole country the same opportunity in the future, in the view of the Centre Party, there must be people, jobs and equivalent services throughout Norway. Good, equivalent services near people provide security and predictability in everyday life. In the fishing units in Lofoten, the hospital in Odda, the industrial park in Mo in Rana and on the farm in Ås, work is done every day that keeps Norway going. Each of us contributes in its own way. It provides the basis for value creation, housing and jobs throughout the country, which the Center Party will continue to fight for. Over six years, the right-wing government with a supporting party has been working for the centralisation of jobs, the centralisation of services, the centralisation of financial resources and the centralisation of power and influence in a small part of Norway. In the public sector, the right-wing government, with the good help of the Support Party, has carried out centralising reforms in the municipal sector, the hospital sector, the higher education sector, the police, the hub, the tax haven and the prison system, to name a few. The right-wing government systematically transfers the resources to the large urban areas, while the districts and small towns are drained for jobs, welfare services and residents. It is possible to solve problems for the largest cities without going to the expense of the districts. The government’s policy creates problems in both urban and rural areas – in cities because centralisation leads to high housing prices and problems of need, in rural areas because the closure of services and relocation threatens communities and the basis of life. Even an abbreviated census should contain some words about how to strengthen the basic services in Kommune-Norway, the ones that we rely on every day for Norway to go around. Kindergarten, school, care, health, police and cultural services are services that should be provided throughout the country. Public Norway and the security it provides in everyday life should be something we built on in a community. This government will not, or at least will not. Although the speech had deserved the reward of the many tens of thousands who went to work for society to walk around, the number of thrones was empty for how to return to their everyday lives – how to enable them to provide good services in the future. There are many who are now at risk of burnout. Now the harvest is on its way. The budget is to be landed. The tournaments shall be planned. Necessary upgrades of school buildings shall be decided. New hopeful ones will get their knowledge. Firenner's going to be extinguished. People are going to get health care. The centre party has prioritised and will continue to give priority to increasing funds for municipalities and county municipalities, so that they can run good schools, provide good care for the elderly and provide good services to the inhabitants. That's what builds all of Norway. In fact, municipalities and county councils provide the basic welfare services to the inhabitants. Regrettably, funds are increasingly being tied up in state investments, local authorities' income opportunities are being tightened up, and increased expenditure and tasks are not being compensated. The government has mainly chosen to help central parts of the country. You don't build a whole thing like that. Rarely have the challenges of getting the money to go to and the uncertainty has been greater for Norwegian municipalities and local politicians. The sum of the changes that the Right Party and the Advance Party have been through means tighter economic times for many municipalities and poorer services for people. Cuts in services in a municipality are usually not linked to the lack of economic governance, as the Minister of Health said last week. The cut is linked to the fact that the right-wing government does not take into account the difficult situation that arises when revenue fails and costs and tasks increase. The central party believes that return of funds to municipalities should ensure equivalent services to all residents, irrespective of their place of residence and population development. The speech of the throne did not announce anything new. With the right-wing government and the Progress Party on the road, Norway will continue to be centralised, costing what it will cost. The center part represents the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3260	In the royal languages of the government, it is said: «The work of setting up the tax system to make it more profitable to make green choices will continue in 2021.» In addition, I would like to point out that it is necessary to make it easy to make green choices in everyday life. An expert committee recommends that all passenger cars passing a toll point pay a similar fee. This is the left counter. It gives no indication that you want a green shift. A green shift means going from climate-depleting fuels to climate-friendly energy carriers. Battery, hydrogen and biofuels are sustainable solutions. The vehicles that are climate friendly must have an advantage. The size has decided that the electric car max will pay half the price in a bomb. In the opinion of the Left, this is an acceptable scheme, which still favours the electric car so much that it can help achieve the goal of not selling a single petrol and diesel passenger car after 2025. It is still free to pass an electric car toll point in e.g. Trondheim. This is sensible policy. The share of electric cars in Trondheim is still low. It's approx. 15 pst. The left considers that the share of electric cars in Trondheim traffic and in most other areas of the country should exceed 20 pst. before we adjust the benefit. The electric drivers have been aware that they will have to contribute to the financing of urban agreements and new roads in the future. But it's always going to pay off being environmentally friendly. It's a pleasure to take a battery electric ferry. Not only do we know that it is climate friendly, the noise level is also very low. The black smoke and the smell from the chimney are gone – and we can still buy the swallow. The procurement policy of the county councils on who owns and operates the ferries is a success. Climate-friendly solutions can now be required. They have purchasing power, and environmentally friendly ferries provide a good offer and much better employment for employees. The cost-effective solutions that new technologies and new construction can bring are and should be a layer of sprawl between state and county municipalities. However, the drivers are most likely to be involved in lower operating costs with ease of electric operation and, in particular, much more cars will use the ferry service. I have great faith that Norway holidays are still becoming a hit in the next few years, even though the corona is turned in the heels with vaccination. The ferry revolution will be replaced by a rapid boat revolution. I would like to say to politicians locally, regionally and nationally: be impatient. Don't worry about the requirements. Norwegian boat builders are ready to build environmentally friendly, fast and safe boats, which can lead to much greater use and exciting solutions in public transport. The airlines are struggling, and I don't think it comes up to old heights of violent growth in use, which we've seen in the last 10-20 years. In particular, long range aeroplanes are less requested. Electrical solutions come and make the planes much more attractive, especially in our long-distance country with many short-haul airports. I honor the airlines that are offensive to the climate challenges and will use their power over the aircraft manufacturers. Technological revolution, smaller aircraft size and not least a completely different usage pattern, with many departures, probably make some routes attractive and cheaper. A route between Bergen and Stavanger that goes every half hour, with an aircraft size of about 50 passengers, must be a success in the West. At the National Meeting of the Left, we got a fantastic message from our then leader, Trine Skei Grande: We're going to have a record bet on the railway next year. Record high 32,6 billion. kr beats all previous records and is above a doubling of the red-green rate on the railway in its last year of government. The government's 2021 railway operation is fantastic. Nearly 80 million passengers are being transported, and we should have a target of 100 million by 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3282	The future is renewable, circular and sustainable. That's the way it goes. It has been understood by climate-stripping young people. That's what capital has understood. It has been understood by banks, insurance companies and funds. It is understood by technologists, innovators and business leaders. It understands workers, and it is increasingly recognised in politics as well. The greening of the European Union is a good example of this. This weekend I also read the climate and energy plan of Biden and Harris – if they are chosen, as the polls suggest. It will not in any way be left behind for what we now see in the EU. And even China's President, Xi Jinping, has promised China to become carbon neutral. That's this way it goes. The bad news is that things aren't going fast enough, and a lot of the 2020s will be about getting the speed of the conversion up so it hits in relation to the remaining carbon budget we can allow ourselves to use. Much indicates that both the will to regulate and the technology to help us are too powerful in these years. The markets we export to are changing rapidly, especially the European markets, which take most of our exports. This is a good news for the world, but also a serious word for Norway, because if we don't get our own pace of change, we're putting Norway and Norwegian industry at an increasingly high economic climate risk. And the climate risk of others adapting, of changing markets, must be taken more seriously. We see that there will be a falling demand for what we've lived on well until now, but also an increasing demand for what we can grow on if we bet now, if we bet early. I believe in the power of Norwegian industry, and I believe in Norwegian industrial workers as the climate losers themselves. We have in many ways exactly the supplier industry and the process industry we wanted if we wanted to take the lead in this shift. Much of the same can be said about our energy sector, about construction, about transport, about agriculture and fish. We have the options, but we have to arrest them. It requires an active, guiding business policy. It requires a state that, in close partnership with market players, sets clear targets, strict verifiable targets – not strict targets for us to bother ourselves, but because we are to inspire and focus on a completely necessary transition. It requires that we build up hydrogen, that we build up green shipping, that we put carbon capture and storage and all these new opportunities that are just in the gap between what we're good at now and what we're going to be good at tomorrow. I welcome the government's commitment to long-distance shipping, full-scale carbon capture, transport and storage. I would like to see there were two fishing facilities and not one. I think it is a bit embarrassing that we should say: Poor Norway is unable to finance two, so it should be done by Bulgarian, Portuguese and Finnish taxpayers instead of us – a large plant in a field where we have taken great international ownership. But at least I think it's important that we get together about this big bet. What I want to say about what could become one of the most important debates in the autumn here, about carbon capture and storage, is that this is not just a very important climate action – perhaps in many ways the most important single action Norway can contribute to the international climate struggle. Nor is it just something that can give us many new jobs. It is also the key to taking care of many of the jobs we already have – whether in the process industry or in the oil and gas sector – when they are going to meet a market that is increasingly strong and with increasing frequency is going to demand low emissions throughout the chain. But to do this, we need a strong and effective state that dares to set the course. What the market can help us with is the price of that development. There's our contribution to making it possible to lift whole value chains at the same time. What the market does not solve for us is the need for justice – social justice between people, small differences, that people should be involved, that those who work today, also get jobs tomorrow, and geographical justice by making sure that we use the whole country, which is both politically and morally correct, and also rationally when we are going to develop the opportunity in this. That is why, during this debate and during this autumn, the Labour Party will make a number of concrete proposals on how we can get even more speed on a development that is in any case happening, but that is not happening at the rate that we can allow ourselves with the remaining carbon budget in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3303	Something that's occupied me a lot in the last few months is how we can make sure that the coronary apathy doesn't lead to more people falling out of high school, and that they can't take their professional letter. Strengthening businesses and stimulating activity have, of course, helped our apprentices and those looking for apprenticeships, because no matter how much the Workers' Party wishes, it is actually not possible to adopt a place of learning. They must be created by enterprises, by private enterprises with profits. The measures under the government’s Education Commitment 2020 were also a very good response to the challenges facing secondary school students, both those in study-specific programmes and those in the professional field. I am also very pleased with the news that came yesterday, that the government will use another 4 billion. In order to get more through higher education, to help more people get a place to learn and to get young people back to school. I must honestly admit that there was a bit of celebration in the world when this became known. Making sure that several students complete and pass high school was one of the government's most important areas of activity before the coronary apathy. The government's objective is to complete nine out of ten by 2030, and the Right in addition aims to complete 5,000 more each year by 2025. Now it's the record number that completes, almost eight out of ten. But how are we going to achieve the goals we've set to get even more people to complete? One thing I want to point to here today is how important it is to recognise that we are all different. We face different challenges at different times in life. Neither are our young people A4. It's incredibly important that we make sure that no one is hanging after, and that everyone gets good basic skills. But we also have to have a primary school and a secondary school that takes into account that the students don't move, that they learn in different ways and mature at different times. Much has been done to meet the students in this, but it is also important to ensure that our students have more opportunities for organized running and greater freedom of choice — not least in secondary and secondary education, and between secondary and secondary education. It might still not be enough to give everyone what they need. I have met several great actors who play a crucial role for so many young people. We need a whole host of arenas and arrangements that can meet the young people where they need to be met. We could read yesterday that Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Minister of Knowledge Guri Melby met Thomas at the ICT House. Thomas had dropped out of high school, but found here an offer that fit him. I have been following the ICT House for several years and remember well when I read about Espen who had fallen out of high school eight years earlier. Here he got top characters and prepared for further studies in biology at the university thanks to the computer game-based education he received at the ICT House. I have met students who have sailed with Windjammer, a lifelong training program on the schoolship «Christian Radich». As Ida-Sofie says, Windjammer has made me realize how much I can actually get, before I almost dared not go out of the house because of social anxiety. I'm also very impressed with the results they get at Hookede secondary school in Hordaland, a school that combines education with a strong social medicine offer. Katrine says that life changed completely when she started there, not least she's had a lot of motivation for what she can do after high school. So, of course, I've been to Hookeide's sister school in Feiraring in Eidsvoll, which started this fall. To meet the students who were there – expectant and motivated after meeting so many steep uphill hills during their school life – was simply a very good experience. I really believe that this time you can succeed. The initiators of the Windjammer project say this quite simply: not being stuck on land when there is a sea of opportunity. – I really think that those possibilities exist both at sea and on land. YoungInvest is another important contributor to getting young people through high school. We have many, and we may need even more, but this is at least a trick very good actors who are doing everything they can to help our young people. These actors, and the government, who have increased completion in higher education as one of their main tasks, make me very hopeful that for the future we will be able to give the young people, who are our future, the future they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3333	In the years to come, we have to create thousands of new jobs to get the whole people to work. Then we need the community to take greater responsibility. We have to create to be able to share. Over the last seven years, economic differences have increased. Exports to the rest of the world are dropping. More of the welfare has been privatized, and fewer people are at work. It's the wrong medicine for the country. There is the result of unfair and old-fashioned right-wing policies on Erna Solberg's watch. I am proud of the Workers' Party's new draft programme. It shows another way. We will create more, strengthen public welfare and again make work for everyone to work for number one. Therefore, the Right responses to our proposals are predictable. Right does not want the state, policy, to take an active role in building new and forward-looking industries, nor does it leave governance alone to market, stock exchange and speculators. That's an honest priority, but that's not what we need. It is therefore just as predictable that the Right's solutions to everything are to cut taxes, and the very most property tax, as the parliamentary leader of the Right's called the criminal tax. That is also a priority. That cutting the property tax will create over 25 000 more zero-tax providers has not exactly led to internal sales on the Right House. But remember, tax cuts are also well-off. That is why I also ask questions about understanding – or perhaps the lack of understanding – to representatives from the Right, such as Ebbesen, like Kapur, like Greece, about the difference between privatising public jobs, i.e. welfare services, and creating new private jobs. There won't be any more hands in the care of getting people earned pensions by privatizing. While the Right seems increasingly blind in its out-of-date belief in the market, the Workers' Party is moving in the opposite direction because we need to strengthen the state's role as an active player in creating new industries and industries, secure jobs, secure jobs. It's about understanding the time we live in. Oil and gas revenues are falling, and efforts to generate new revenues and develop new and greener export industries are too slow. What is needed is strength, will and leadership. We need policies that show the way. The sea is one of our greatest advantages. The fish is one of the finest things we have. The Workers' Party will be committed to developing the entire coast. There is a lot of good going on in the fishing and seafood industry, but there are also some challenges that are very big, which cause unrest and potentially also great conflict. Differences are increasing. These are our resources. How they are distributed is important. It's about quotas. It is about power, and the matter of the Riksrevision report, which has shown that the fish are gathering on ever fewer hands and the coastal communities are weakening, will be dealt with in the Stortinget this week. The working party will do something about it. We want to make the distribution fairer. We want to ensure that coastal communities are not weakened. We will act. That won't be right. Outside the living room window in Tromsø, the north lights dance, the light that has helped to create light in the dark in several ways. Tourists from all over the world have come to see and experience the North. Now it's empty, there's nobody there. The summer holiday does not help those who live in winter. Travel life has been subject to a vote. People in the travel industry are tired. We have to stand up for that industry in proper time to come. The Workers' Party shall be involved and contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3354	The center party and I probably don't see the same Norway. Where I see optimism, tell the centre party about pessimism. The centre party is talking about everything that goes wrong in our country, everything that is wrong in the districts and in the towns because of this government, everything that has to be reversed, and everything that was so much better before. But take a trip to Bømlo and look at the production of salmalax, at the evolution that has been there since the first mercenaries were established just outside the quaikant early in the 1970s. Now they have the millions on the market. Take a trip to Hardanger and look at the pages of Hardangergutane, where young people see new opportunities in a traditional product, arranged for the production and sale of this government. Take a trip to Lom and Dombås and look at exciting microbrewery, or to Rennesøy where they produce Klosterlam, or to Rissa where they make the delicious ice cream. Norwegian food production is flourishing. Norwegian restaurants win Michelin stars because they bet on one of the best Bygde-Noreg's got to go. Fortunately, there are very many young people who want to bet, who see possibilities where the Center Party sees problems. These human beings are not influenced by the fact that the Center Party is blackmailing the lives of the districts. They see that getting a living outside the city center is getting easier and easier. When I travel around Norway, I don't see the ruins of misery. I see people who want and can, and who get what they want – because of digitisation, because of better infrastructure, because of decentralised training courses, multi-territorial organisation and desired policies, where: the whole country shall enter into service. I see a travel life growing. I see enterprises as active in Lom, which invest in top tours, cave tours and kayak rentals in Jotunheimen. Norwegian and foreign tourists visit cultural experiences throughout the year. People in the districts have never had more possibilities than now. It is built road, bridges, and tunnels. All this helps to make everyday life easier and districts more attractive for young people. On Stord, before the Triangular connection, the island closed when the last ferry went. If you were to travel from Stavanger to Stord in the past, you had to take a ferry from Mekkarvik to Skudenes in an hour and a half. You might already have been in the ferry queue for a couple of hours. Then you had to hurry off the garden to stretch the next ferry from the Utbua, on a narrow and dangerous road. It's no longer like that. This is not a time we want to go back. So we're now working with Ryfast to connect the young people of the West with Hordfast, with Rogfast. We have increased the travel budget by 80 pst. We had a lot to clean up, and the job is not finished. We have a lot to do. We do because we have faith in growth and development in the whole country. We believe in the driving force we find at Freyr AS in Mo i Rana, which is to establish a battery plant with 2,500 jobs. We believe in Hywer AS in Förde, who is in the world class with his product in small power – brilliant ideas emerged through cooperation between small producers, contributing to more renewable energy and value creation locally, which are good for attracting competent and relevant labour. We also believe in Green Yard in Feda that sees business potential in recycling old ships, or Kitemill testing wind power in other ways, or the Aa brothers in Hyen – taking the technology with zero-emission speedboats out into the world. We see forward-looking Varanger Power that transforms wind into hydrogen and ammonia at the Finnmark range in cooperation with the EU. We see hydrogen and ammonia, which riders take with them to the development of the green ship's fleet, where Wärtsilä at Stord tests out its engines through the catapult, or where Eidesvik's Viking Energy in cooperation with Equinor does the same – because we have arranged for this to happen, out there in the whole country. We don't hear any of these that they want to go back to the past. They want more of the way we're going to sort out. And they'll definitely keep the EEA agreement that makes them get their goods and services out into the world. All this happens out there in Norway, between fjords and mountains, where people want to live and create a good life. And they're doing it -- not in spite of it, as the Center Party wants us to believe, but because of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3395	This is the last persuasion debate in this magnification period. We've soon had two periods of Right-dominated government, and I'd say it's a Right-dominated government that – for the first time, really – has been more influenced by the liberalist part of the Right than the old, good, conservative part of the Right. I have been so lucky to be able to talk a lot about the Norwegian model, the Norwegian model of society, partly around Norway, but not least abroad. Then I've experienced that people from all the parties that have been part of the delegations I've been in have said, "Well, this is something we stand together about -- that we have a society of small differences, with good welfare arrangements that are largely organised in public, which means that they are equivalent to everyone, without social status, that we have good social arrangements that make people safe, which also contributes to the adaptability of the business that has been unique in Norway. Not least, all of this has also given us good economic results in the country. I have heard many foreigners who have mentioned the Norwegian model with admiration, but now I meet people who talk about what is happening in Norway with amazement. Because with the good results we have achieved with the Norwegian model, many people are surprised that we are now seeing a policy that results in an increase in differences in Norway. Even the OECD, which is not exactly the stronghold of social democracy in Europe, has found that small differences also pay off economically for society. Then we've seen systematic tax havens to the richest. Now, despite the fact that today’s report to the Minister of Industry demonstrates that it does not have an employment effect — rather, on the contrary. The SSB has made it clear that the inequalities are greater than what we were aware of, and that the wealthiest pay less taxes than the ordinary workers of every hundred units they serve, while the workers have received higher taxes during this period. If you commute, you have to pay more taxes. If you receive a diet from the employer, you have to pay more tax. Yes, people with general income have less to walk with. Of course, something that is moving towards the increased disparities is the dramatic increase in management salaries in Norway, which we had last year's own national audit report. We are constantly seeing examples of pointless high levels and, not least, a year-to-year trend that far exceeds the average population in Norway. At the same time, wages are being pushed downwards by social dumping and pressure from unprofessional work. We have seen that in the construction industry, we see it in the hotel and restaurant industries, we see it in the cleaning industry, and now, fortunately, there has been a lot of focus on the bus drivers. The professions that keep this society going are becoming increasingly less and less estimated and premiered. It's a dangerous development. At the same time, we see cuts in well-being, in holiday pay for day-to-day workers, tightening up the redundancy system, a massive increase in the number of young disabled people – or such concrete things that cut in support of glasses for people who have poor advice. The most important thing now is to solve the unemployment. That's what everyone says. But then we have to have an active industrial policy. We must have an active employment policy. We can use the Norwegian model to further develop business and employment and get smaller differences. Siv Jensen warned us, before she became a finance minister, that the Norwegian model would be weakened. She's done that. The Norwegian model shall not be weakened in the future. We need a new course where we do not liquidate the Norwegian model, but strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3416	We're in a difficult time, a time when we have to stand together. But as we've learned, we're not going to throw away a good crisis. In a crisis there are great opportunities. This has been in many ways a test for the ability to convert to us Norwegians, and I think we have done well. We've been throttled up by work and infectious diseases while being both mother, cook and learn at home on the kitchen bench. We've been evaluating our kids' noses, because if the string had the wrong color, the kid had to be home from kindergarten again. The team meeting with the manager had to be held at the same time as the three-year-old found out that he would make his own breakfast mix, without the plate, with the whole milk box in addition to the kitchen floor – in the middle of slide number four. We've all had ours. But fy the filler so nice we've become multitasking. We have offices installed at home, we know most about Teams and Zoom and Webinars. The crisis has digitized us faster than the Ministry of Finance is able to say proceeds. The same offensive must be done when we are now faced with an even greater challenge – going from gray to green. We didn't know that Korona came, but we know that one day the oil adventure will be over. And we can prepare. It's not just about fresh air and cleaner seas, it's just as much about securing Norwegian jobs and income in the future, ensuring that Norway is still the world's best country to live in for both our children and our grandchildren. I meet many people who don't want to deal with it, anyhow, they want to lean back and let go of taking responsibility. Not all, but many of them are good grown men. As one of them said to me last week: it's okay with climate and environment and things like that, but it's going to be the way. Personally, I'm incredibly grateful that we have such an offensive blue-green government, which doesn't think that's the way we run according to the greenest government platform of the time, and that the throne now announces that we're stepping up another pick. Because no, there's no way. People who are not involved in time cannot control our food and climate policies. It is offensive and modern people who have to do it – like Erna, like Kjell Ingolf, like Tina, like Sveinung. The transition to greener Norway is under way. The emissions go down, but we can't rest on the laurels. We have set even more ambitious targets for 2030, and that requires new initiatives. That's why we need the climate message that's coming. That's why we need a much greener tax system, so it'll be more profitable to make greener choices, both for consumers and for business. Because there are not enough idealists to save the climate. We must play on the forces and motivation of both capitalists and idealists if we are to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. Therefore, we need to build a full-scale CO 2 capture and storage facility. I must admit that I am very pleased that the government has chosen to invest in Vestfold and Telemark. Carbon capture and storage will reduce emissions, it will create jobs, it will make us world leaders in new technology, and it will help Norwegian industry to compete in a greener world. But we need more. We need to phase fossil energy out of the transport sector, we need to electrify the socket, and we need to cut emissions in the industry. We've doubled the transfers to Enova, so we also have muscles to help the industry and business to continue the green trip. We have been the birth aid for the world's cleanest aluminiumworks in Karmøy, Europe's largest biogas plant in Forest, the agricultural success of the Count in Westfold, and we are now contributing to the construction of the world's largest floating sea wind farm – to mention something. But we need more. The purchasing power of the country needs to be used much more actively than what is being done today. The country purchases goods and services for more than 500 billion. kr per year. We need to increase energy efficiency in construction, and we need to use the charging system to ensure that it does. We need a stronger bet on hydrogen, among other things. on ferries, so we can trigger the potential that lies in the value chains there. We have to assume that the financial markets have now moved towards green – and are doing so increasingly. We have to move on. Then, dear climate skeptics, you can like to sit in your armchair and hang on to the TV or keep driving the car with the handcuff on, while the others go ahead, have taken on the green leader sweater and get a Norway with fresher air, cleaner seas and safer jobs in the future as well. Otherwise, the new police college should be in Larvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3444	Now it's serious in Norwegian schools and kindergartens. They took the corona dough in the spring on a tight arm. Home school was rigged in record time. Now they're facing a tough and almost impossible harvest. The dungeon has been cancelled. The right-hander could not even find out. For the past few weeks, I've been visiting schools and kindergartens all over the country, and everyday life out there is dramatic. School and kindergarten budgets are already starving. Expenditure on extra laundry, temporary work, overtime and other corona-related expenditure must be fixed by the schools themselves. Billions have been solved for business, but the kindergartens and schools have apparently been a little forgotten. So we know that there's going to be a tough harvest for many schools. Then there was little help with a flap on the shoulder from the government saying to work twice. It is far from the reality you look out in School and Barnhage-Norway, where teachers and employees stand in an impossible spat. One must teach students both at home and at school, and overtime pay cannot be expected. Norwegian schools and kindergartens have a new word: Koronakutt. It's the new everyday life at a time when we should rather bet more on education and on kindergartens. Several schools have to cut off temporary work and cancel teachers because of extra costs related to the coronary intervention. Also, several schools cannot afford to purchase new school books. In Trondheim it is now in the autumn announced Koronakutt, in Kristiansand it is warned Koronakutt, in Stavanger, my home town, there is a danger of coronakutt of 123 million. SEK in the school and kindergarten sector, in Bergen 70 million. kr, and in smaller municipalities we see the same trend. The government has promised to compensate for any additional costs to the Korona. So far there have been empty promises from the government that do not help in the budgets. Empty promises create coronacuts, and the situation in which the schools and kindergartens now stand is the responsibility of the government. One has found space for 125 billion. kr in coronary action. Then I think it is serious that the schools and kindergartens are almost forgotten. But I'm most concerned about the consequences of the corona cuts. The head of the Federation of Education Steffen Handal also says that he is seriously concerned that the vulnerable students will again be hit. We saw it in ours. The reports from the time we closed the schools showed that the vulnerable students were hit hardest. Yes, it affects most students, but the most vulnerable. Coronacrisa has been said to have been a magnifying glass for the differences in Norway. That's the way it's been in school. The weakest students with the worst starting point are now weaker. I believe they deserved to be seen and deserved to be put on. They don't deserve coronacut. Overtime teachers and employees in school and kindergarten had also deserved to be seen and put on, not new coronacuts. The arrogant rejection of these consequences by the government is already having consequences. We see this in a recent report that Response's analysis has been carried out on behalf of the Education Association. In kindergartens, it can be seen that sick leave among employees has increased dramatically after the summer, and many nursery officials report that they do not have money for temporary workers, and that already now, before – and for some in the middle of – the fall holiday. The Labour Party believes that we need to give a different priority. The working party requires action. Already in our revised budget, we demanded an extra billion for schools and kindergartens, but there we were voted down by the right-wing government. Unfortunately, the crisis packages that came in the autumn have not given any answers, and I have to admit that I have expectations for the state budget later this week. It's time to put the money on the table if we're going to avoid bigger differences in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3463	If the word was enough to build the country, we could today say that we had made a great effort. But the policy and design of it must be based on an understanding of what gives family income and what gives civil society the power to do. It's production and value creation. Only when the fish are fished and transported and the products are marketed and sold do you have the money to drive the country and pay for what is otherwise called free of charge of common goods. After listening to the Workers' Party's Gahr Støre today, it seems that the answer to all crises is that the state should grow bigger and more important. At the same time, those outside the state shall not be involved in building it. In new fields, the State and the municipality should be guaranteed monopoly and protected against gross comparisons from private services. It is not to use Norway, but to talk down about what is not happening in the state. We see the same pattern in the debate: an Workers' Party that is afraid to distance itself from its preferred partners to the left of itself. With common thought from seminary socialism in several horrors, the way you talk about business is how you talk about business. Less profitable enterprises: no problem – a bigger country. Problems of innovation, fewer entrepreneurs than we could have had without a wealth tax on working capital: no problem – a bigger state. The special tax on Norwegian jobs, which we are almost alone in Europe, should not only discriminate against Norwegian ownership, it should even be increased by 41 p.m., says the Workers' Party. And its possible government colleague, the Lightbakken, spoke earlier in today's debate about market economy, which was supposed to be on the scrappowder of history. As a left-wing socialist, probably the representative Lightbakken will be very well aware of what's on the scrappowder of history. Worse still, the Labour Party takes a passive and unclear view of its partners that would undermine Norway’s main agreement, namely the EEA Agreement. The Labour Party has gone from being for EU membership to being indifferent. At the same time, the limits on what can be accepted by undermining the EEA Agreement are moved in separate rows. While on the civil side a new party has been created that will contribute politically in Europe, the Labour Party is moving in the opposite direction. And here, too, I think you should notice the effect of the Working Party with Gahr Støre has let themselves be bound to parties on the left side of itself. When Gahr Støre, of course, excludes cooperation over the centre on essential issues, the strength ratio within the Red-Green Hop Sea, which has been presented here today, will be noticeable. There is a minority working party in the red-green camp, surrounded by EEA opponents. It is this agreement that gives our export-oriented business market access to the world's largest market of 500 million people. That's what gives us employment. This is what makes for the prosperity of wages and salaries, which in turn finance pensions, social security and public benefits — yes, which means that the welfare state can be financed at all, and that red-green politicians can promote proposals they do not know the price of. Contrary to what it claims, the Labour Party cannot guarantee jobs to all – if you do not understand the driving forces behind innovation, patents, product development and economic growth: that it does so in a comparative competitive environment, where those who consume at least real resources and offer the best quality to customers are the ones who succeed, while those who stand still hoping for monopoly protection and state subsidies to conceal their inefficiency are failing to succeed. The first create values, the last consume them. The Labour Party, in its hitherto unheard-of rhetoric here today, has clearly stated where they are at heart, but it is striking that the outcome against privately owned enterprises, which contribute to the welfare state's service, is profitable when they go with profits and thus expand the tax base and in the longer term strengthen the state's finances. The Labour Party is not willing to reform the public sector. Even a police reform originally supported the Labour Party was too much to carry forward. The price of the lack of rationality, the lack of state conversion and the suppression of competition from others who could solve the tasks faster, better and cheaper, causes the country to lose many times more than the tax reliefs the Labour Party sees as the root of all evil. Unlike wasting, which is wasting money, money given in tax bills is not lost, but within the economic cycle. Sooner or later, they benefit society in some form. After hearing the representative Tajik's strike racket earlier today, how little suitable the Workers' Party is for the time being to take the leadership of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3488	This year has been very different. In the handling of the corona virus we have put life and health first, and we have ringed the most vulnerable and most vulnerable. Our response to severe infection prevention measures for the entire population to protect those who are most vulnerable was and is a choice of values. For six months, we've been working to protect the Norwegian community from the virus and from the consequences of the pandemic. Now the goal is that we should take our everyday life back. We need to ensure good infectious disease protection and good health care treatment. At the same time, we must respond to the long-term challenges facing the country. We're going to be able to include more, it's going to be our most important job. Then we have to help companies get back into business all over the country and get as much work done as possible, so that they do not stay out of work. Because being on the outside is one of the worst things that a person can experience. This applies not least to the many older people who have been isolated alone when they could no longer have family visits. We have announced that the government in the government budget for next year is proposing to step up efforts towards solitude for the elderly. A good growth lasts life out, with a good childhood you are better equipped to cope better later in life. A good family policy provides the basis for safe growth, better quality of life and, in the long term, increased participation and inclusion in society. In the family, children will have love, security to be themselves and support to grow and explore the world on their own. Children need close relationships that are good and stable. This has been particularly challenging this year, because when the virus outbreak occurred, many of the fixed networks around children and young people that they have in kindergarten, in school and in leisure activities disappeared. Many could not meet their grandparents, or all their friends, and the pandemic showed where the central families are. In order to get an overview of the impact of the country’s closure on the services of vulnerable children, a coordination group was set up in April. Ever since the coronary epidemic broke out, the government has been working hard to put in place measures to help the vulnerable children. The government provided a package of measures of more than 400 million. to improve the situation of vulnerable children and young people. We continue to invest in families, invest in children and young people's growth. Child welfare increased for the first time in 20 years last year. We increased it further this year for all children to the age of 6. In addition to employment, child benefit is the most important individual benefit for reducing the proportion of children in low-income families. The increase shall also benefit social assistance recipients with children. We want all children to participate in organised activities, including children who grow up in low-income families. Twelve municipalities are now trying out the leisure card, and we have announced that we are proposing 180 million. kr in 2021 to continue and extend the trial project with a leisure card for all children from the age of 6 to the age of 18. Too many children and young people are hit by low incomes and exclusions, with fewer opportunities than their peers to create a good life for themselves and theirs. That is why this month we are presenting a strategy to promote inclusion and participation and strengthen the opportunities for children in low-income families. The strategy includes actions to provide children and young people with good care and increased opportunities for the implementation of educational pathways, good and safe housing, participation in social communities and better access to health services. We have increased the one-off benefit, and we warn that we are expanding the 'Family for the First Time' programme, which is a great help to vulnerable mothers. Helping parents to become safe adults for their children is at the heart of giving children a good upbringing. Safe parents provide safe children. For some children, home is a dangerous place, a place where they face violence and other failures. Child protection is there to help the kids. We have a good child protection in Norway. Every year, many thousands of children receive all the help they need from child protection. At the same time, there are several challenges. Therefore, more is being done in the area of child protection now than in a very long time. We're putting a lot of weight on child protection. We have health promotion, skills training and schooling, and new child protection laws are in progress. Child protection is now implementing a digital lift. I am also Minister of Faith and Life, and 2020 is a brand year. It is almost half a year since the new law was passed in Stortinget, half a year when so much has happened. Despite the fact that the law came in a heavy time for the country, it was a joyous day when we were able to establish a common law on religious and life-view societies with a clear anchoring of the open-minded society of life. I think that's important to create a good and inclusive society for everyone, and I think that's important for the Norwegian Church to have the opportunity to organize itself as it sees fit. The church goes into exciting times.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3510	Hardly anything is more intrusive in a person's life than being deprived of his child. That's exactly why we have to do what we can to make sure that this kind of intervention takes place in a legal certainty. We must have child protection based on legal certainty, security and trust. The many issues in the EMD recent do not assure us that children and parents with major problems are treated as we would like. The working party will have an expert group to review legal certainty for all aspects of child protection. What is it that makes the Council of State and the government argue against that we get such a review?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3517	Thank you for an important question. The issues that are and have been dealt with in the EMD are one of our most serious concerns. I would also say that in the review that is of each case, which is followed up in a very thorough way, there is a lot of learning, for some of the errors that are revealed, we can use to make child protection even better. We are working on a new Children's Protection Act, which is due to arrive in the spring. If we had put down a separate expert selection, I'm afraid it would delay that work for a very long time. That is why we have said that we want that law to follow up on the human rights aspects and work closely on it. Therefore, the representative is aware that it was also a little longer before the Children's Protection Act itself was submitted to Stortinget. Through that, I'm sure we'll get good lessons, along with the experiences we've learned from the judgments, so I don't think it's necessary to bring down such a sample. At the same time, we've notified that instead of going for a commission and looking back, we want our own NOU, not least institutional child protection, just to look at what we can do to make it even better for the most vulnerable kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3528	Now I'm a little bit unsure of what's difficult and not for the government, because on the one hand, it's very difficult to run a parallel race to look at legal certainty, while it's not hard to run a parallel race and put down a NOU for institutional child protection. I don't really understand that resistance. It's also like here we have a service where employees, user organisations, parents and trade unions have made recordings, and then I read in the Fonts now that the Council of State says yes, we know a lot about challenges, but we need a NOW to see what it's going to be like in the future. Is there anyone who has made suggestions about what it should be like? Employees, users and children themselves. In hearings here, they have done nothing but make good suggestions on how to do so. Why does a NOW just have to deal with institutional child protection, and why is it not important to look at legal certainty in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3537	Firstly, we have received a number of recommendations, studies and reports ordered by the government, which identify major challenges in child protection. That is why both the health effort – it comes even more in the next year’s budget – and not least this is about raising skills, which I believe is extremely important not only to give employees a bigger promise, but also to make demands in the future. Much of this will be done in the new Child Protection Act, and there will also be emphasis on the issue of legal certainty and the human rights aspects. But with regard to institutional child protection, we believe, as I also said in that interview, that instead of going for a commission – which is now being treated in the Stortinget – and looking back, because we know a lot about what the challenges are, we want to see how this can best be organised in the future. I think it's quite possible to make all these changes to the Child Protection Act we've proposed, even next spring, while looking further at how we can get even better institutional child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3545	Governments mentioned the vulnerable children and the importance of family. In that context, I think it's something he's forgotten. Over the past few weeks, TV 2 has had a number of reports on how cohabitation has affected children and their families. We have heard about Petter, who in May 2019 received a judgment of 40 p.m. association with the son but still waiting for association. I've met Mary, who hasn't seen her daughter in a long, long time, even though she has parental rights and community agreements. Last, but not least, Lotte stood up with her story and told about the consequences of her mother's cohabitation with her father for her childhood. These are just some voices that stand out on behalf of a lot of individuals who are hit hard by this. My question is simple: Does the Council of State recognise that children in Norway suffer from cohabitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3552	I have also received these reports, and it makes a big impression, because there are children who are suffering from cohabitation. I see enough examples of children who don't see their mother or father simply because the company that's agreed is not being followed up. Then I've also heard more stories in the last period associated with the Korona, which has been used as an excuse for not following this up. Let me say it shouldn't be like this. That's why I'm excited about what the Children's Law Committee is presenting, because as the representative is familiar with, we've given them an additional mandate, just to look at how you can get rid of cohabitation in an even better way than today. I don't have the whole date in my head, but at least it's not very long before they make their recommendation, and I'm very excited to see what they're making of measures and suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3557	The Council of State is well aware of my and the commitment of the Progress Party to these children. I think he's been a little off in the public debate on this for the past few weeks. This NOU was alerted to come on November 1st, but if I have understood correctly, it is a little delayed due to the corona. I'm very excited about what's coming there, me too. But then my other question becomes to the Council of State: Does the Council of State recognize that the means we have today to combat cohabitation are not good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3562	First, I want to thank you for the commitment that the representative has shown, and she has also sent me a written question, which I am beginning to answer more precisely. But yes, I see that it's challenging the way it is today, and that's why I'm very excited about what the Children's Law Committee is offering. What's one of the challenges is that these kids are denied the association they're supposed to have, and that's why it worries me. Then I will not foreshadow any measures or proposals that come from that sample – there are certainly different demanding issues that will be raised. But at least I'm busy following this up in a good way. I have got the cases with me and will answer as best I can to the written question from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3567	A new study by the University of Eastfold, published in Dagbladet, shows that in the last few years, in more than nine out of ten decisions, the counties have concluded that there should be a long-term placement and therefore only a few association between children and biological parents in the year following the adoption of care, and that the counties have very rarely made individual assessments of the individual child’s need for community care, even though the law requires it. What does the Minister for Children and Family think is the reason why the members of his watch in so many cases have not complied with the Children's Act, which stresses that their decision should show how they have assessed the children's best interests? And does he actually think that in as much as nine out of ten things is the best thing for all these children to have the least possible association with their biological parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3572	Thank you for a good and important question. This is also some of what we have seen has been a challenge in some of the EMD issues. It is quite right, as the representative says, that individual assessments should be made in each case. I cannot give a precise answer, and I will not wonder why it has not been done to a large extent, but what I can say is that before this report we sent a clear message, and it is also one of the proposals in the new Children's Protection Act. A new clarification to this effect has also been adopted, in particular to stress that the parties are required to make an individual assessment on each case. Based on what I have seen from preliminary feedback, this has improved. But it is absolutely essential that one goes into each case and gives as much association as possible, for the starting point must be, as the representative is well-known, that, if possible, the child should be returned to the biological parents when they are fit to return to care.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3579	The crisis we're facing now affects people in different ways, but some of the things that may worry me the most are the vulnerable people who are at risk of losing vital help in their municipalities – children who need the help of child protection, who don't get the care they need, at home, those who are affected by domestic violence, and who need to seek help at a crisis centre. There is every reason to believe that there has been more violence in homes now, but many do not know about the crisis centre offer. Today, KS reports that many municipalities are in a completely impossible situation when they are not compensated for all the lost income and the increased expenditure resulting from the crisis. Therefore, they fear cut in the offer of these people when they are involved, even often without strong voices to protest. It is Ropstad who is responsible for helping these people, even though the local authorities have delegated the tasks. That is why I ask the Council of State whether he can guarantee from this pulpit that their offer will not be harmful.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3584	I just want to say that the government has been clear all along that we want to compensate for the extra costs associated with the corona. That's why we've also set down a separate group from the government and the KS who are working on looking at what the actual costs are, and if I don't remember completely wrong, they'll come up with their report in a very short time now. Then we are prepared to follow up on both the current year's budget and, if necessary, next year's budget, because we are concerned that the municipalities should be able to give the vulnerable, whether they are children or older, the offer they deserve. I have been in dialogue with child protection and crisis centres throughout the crisis and have followed up to make sure that they have resources and opportunities to follow up the most vulnerable. Fortunately, the feedback from the crisis centres and, to a large extent, from child protection has been that they are able to follow up the most vulnerable. At the same time, we have to admit, as the representative says, that some of the most vulnerable, who are confined, and who have not been in contact with others in the same way as before, have probably had very challenging times, and therefore this is one of the things that I encourage all municipal politicians at all times to give great attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3591	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3598	I recently participated in a debate where the aim was to look at how to create new jobs in Finnmark. On my way to the debate, I had a hiker who had traveled on the coast of Finnmark for many years as a local boat employee. He told me that sometimes earlier he could see belts of solders in the frocks. There was no particular amount of birdlife around these pilot belts, and he explained why: the birds had food everywhere. Why do we rarely see this now? A lot of alarm bells are already ringing. The soldering and reddishness is heavily taxed. Boats as large as trawlers compete with small coastal boats all the way into the feathers of the flakes, where everything is washed, often regardless of whether the species they fish are spawning or not, or that they take the annual income from others. Plastic and garbage take up more and more space in the sea. Independent and free research is needed to find the answers to many of these outcomes. We need to look at how the sea and the fjords tolerate the activity we have there. We need to protect the extensive circuit that's in the ocean. I have previously told you how we can create several thousand jobs along the coast if we are betting on the coastal fleet and further processing of fish in these fishing communities. This is the way to go. Just before the Stortinget opened, I was among others. in Berlevåg. Here a lady asked me how we could allow the fish that was fished right outside the living room door not to land, so that more industrial workplaces could be created in Berlevåg. Berlevåg had hundreds of jobs as a result of fishing a few years ago. She believed that freezing plants used to send the fish out of the country for production had to be banned. No matter how we choose to live our lives, we have to have the same opportunities in life. We have to cheer on large and small forms of nutrition. Different societies must have the same benefits, for example: police, health services and schools. This should be a matter of course. The rapporteur in Båtsfjord says that we must have confidence in the fisheries policy. We have the world's best fish, and we've been processing fish for hundreds of years. We can do this. The coast wants more work, and we have to stop sending the fish abroad for production. We have to fish the fish ourselves, and we have to produce it in Norway. Everyone wants development and not liquidation. Centralization must stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3617	When the pandemic hit Norway, we were lucky to have the good people in the health care system, health professionals, nurses, doctors and many other professional groups who worked around the clock to save lives and health, the great people in the growing up sector, who crept around to organize home school for our children and offer to the parents who had to work out in the field when many of us could work from home, all those who were safe and kept the wheels going because we have the welfare state, the same welfare state on the right side goes to the choice to cut and privatize. We are going to elections to strengthen the welfare state and to implement a trust reform in the public sector. If we are to succeed in strengthening the welfare state of the population, it requires a strong and well-functioning public sector in Norway. A lot is good, a lot can get better, because the employees tell us that the distance between those sitting on top and those working in the field is increasing. There is a difference in the reality of what the actual working life is like. Employees of the welfare state are at least particu­lar in their daily lives compared to other occupational groups. So, those who work on what's most important to you and me, the elderly, our children, our welfare, at least have to say. They tell us about a everyday day when market thinking has taken hold, a working day that has to fit into an Excel sheet, where people become a product, privatisation that leads to welfare offers not being related to us as citizens, where foreign funds in tax havens and other commercial ones want to enter Norwegian welfare to earn money on community resources at the expense of employees' wages and working conditions – a day-to-day day of idiotic target management and reporting that links time that could have been spent on the inhabitants, elderly care where the stopwatching mentality has taken over, a police force run by New Public Management, where skilled policemen and employees end up crying at work, children's and youth psychiatry, where 20-25 pst. of everyday life, registration, mental health care, where children and young people become part of a production cycle. If the welfare state is to stand up for us when we need it, we have to listen to the competent professionals. They must have time, trust, and responsibility. We have to get rid of faulty target management that creates frustration and limits time. We must call for public welfare and ideal actors. We need to ensure real participation for employees. And we're not going to do what the right-wing people want, cut in and privatize the welfare state. We're going to take care of the social-democratic model of society, which allows us to stand for each other independently of where we live and regardless of the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3627	The trust in the Norwegian police is great, and it is particularly great that people are treated fairly and respectfully. These are fundamental values that we must take good care of and secure for the future. The police are in an important transition, and there is no doubt that police reform was and is necessary. The background was the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011 and the subsequent analysis of the Norwegian police force. The Gjørv Commission described a police force that was too weakly rusted, organized and led, and the police analysis drew a similar picture. The aim is a police force with increased preparedness, enhanced operational capability and improved internal cooperation. The government has worked intently to strengthen the police’s ability to deal with both terrorism and serious crime. The emergency team and the police district emergency services are strongly strengthened, the exercise activity has increased, new instructions for police assistance are in place, new police helicopters are operational and the Taraldrud Emergency Centre is now completed in the autumn. There is no doubt that this government is betting on the police, as the budget balance clearly shows. We've strengthened the police by 4.4 billion. NOK, and last week we also announced that the 400 so-called corona positions will be permanent. That means 2,000 more policemen in total in our government period. There is still a lot that can and should be better, but on the way we have to enjoy everything that has improved in police work after the implementation of the reform. The Directorate for Administration and Financial Management writes in Report 2020:4: ‘The Operational Centres have become more professional, police contacts and police councils interact well with the municipalities and police patrols in new ways through on-site police work.’ The Riksadvokat wrote in 2019: ‘There can be no doubt that the quality of criminal proceedings is today higher and progressively more uniform than in the past.’ In my many visits to the police and the county offices around the country, and especially in my own county, Agder, I have not met anyone, either from the management or the employees, who will reverse the police reform or have the old structure back. It is therefore quite strange that the Central Party, with the Workers' Party on the tow, gives the impression that the reform is flawed and has to be reversed. So my clear advice is that now the police have to calm down to make a completely necessary reform work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3650	In the last seven years, the government of Solberg, with varying teams, has fired what we can call a multi-stage rocket for centralization. Consistently and systematically, important blocks of brake against centralisation have been dismantled and removed. In Norway, we have historically had a solid bulwark to avoid centralisation. It's been a success, because centralization is a self-enhancing force, and if it gets free expansion, as the government of Solberg puts it up to, it will also rotate more and more rapidly. Without solid instruments and political will, centralisation will take place. In this country, a variety of small and large municipalities and counties with a natural geographical context have provided for the dissemination of power, labour, services, competences and capital. We have ensured that industrial policy has been set up in such a way that natural resources can be exploited where it has provided benefits to local communities and has contributed to vitality and jobs as a basis for housing. Agricultural policy has had much of the same objective and historically benefited small and medium-sized applications based on indigenous resources. On the other hand, the state has used its position to spread services to people, for example. tax offices, hospitals, colleges and police, across the country. Traffic stations, District Courts and an bystander Nav have been part of the local service that people have been able to expect. Under Erna Solberg's rule, however, modernisation has become the new mantra, a modernisation that has been synonymous with centralisation. What we've built to provide living and attractive communities, workplaces, competences and preparedness across the country, has been picked from each other and dismantled piece by piece. The right parliamentary leader referred to in his main statement that it should be possible to live the good life in Turkey. I am pleased, because I happen to come from there – a municipality that was merged against the will of its inhabitants, a municipality that was the driving force in the development of local communities and that balanced different needs in a tight local economy, but which was both innovative and effective, and with which the citizens were relatively satisfied. Now Trögstad has become Inner Eastfold, and one might say that if it should be a positive thing, it is that we replaced four Right-Rapporteurs with a Central Party rapporteur. My point is that it is the municipalities that are the bearer, that provide schools, nursing homes, well-being and development throughout the country. Now we feel that the municipalities are struggling to get the budgets to go together. The rapporteurs, the advisers, the position and the opposition speak of them struggling to balance the budget. And then the health minister of the country meets up and says that the municipalities deliberately don't balance budgets, and then owe them to the corona. This is not a state council worthy of those who stand in the front line of the country's schools, health and care. On the contrary, it is disrespectful, and I really expect the Council of State and the Prime Minister to distance themselves from such an opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3667	I am among those who have experienced the joy of becoming a grandfather. Nevertheless, at times it may be frightening to think about what the world will look like in the year 2100, a reality that my grandchildren are likely to experience toward the end of their lives. My generation has been privileged to grow up in a golden age in Norway, where we have experienced an enormous growth in wealth. Now we are in the middle of a time when children and young people demonstrate because they are concerned about their future, about an ever warmer planet, and where for the first time in many years we see a decline in the economic development of the world poor because of the coronary apathy. The international cooperation climate is also demanding. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and it will be overwhelming in the decades ahead of us. It is our responsibility as politicians to address these issues in order to secure the future of future generations. As a measure to achieve the objectives notified by Norway in the Paris Agreement, the main message on the CCS project, Langskip, was presented two weeks ago. It proposes to complete the financing and implementation of the construction of a three-step chain for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2, which could be operational in 2024. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party in government has contributed to the realisation of this project. It will bring enormous positive ring-effects to the Norwegian industry. Long-distance shipping will allow Norwegian companies to take global leadership by developing new technologies and skills. Norway already has strong professional environments for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2. Project on Sleipner and Snow White has demonstrated for several decades safe storage of CO 2 on Norwegian base. Planning the full-scale project at Mongstad has also provided important learning. Now we take new steps and establish a complete value chain for the capture and storage of CO2. This is the largest climate project in Norwegian industry ever and a real step towards greening the industry. I hope and believe that those who have initially expressed scepticism will also enter into a broad agreement to create new growth and jobs in Norwegian industry through the realisation of the Langskip project. Carbon capture and storage is one of the most important measures we have to combat climate change. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the capture and storage of CO 2 is essential in order for us, as an international community, to manage to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions in line with the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. The last thing we need now is climate skeptics who claim that the project is risky, that it is expensive, and that the state should spend money on other things than realizing the Langskip project. When I hear and read such comments, the thoughts go to a quote from the American journalist and editor Henry Louis Mencken: "A pessimistic is a person who immediately smells flowers, looking for the coffin." This project is about international solidarity. It is often said that migration to the low-emission society must be fair. As one of the Western industrial communities that has created the well-being of the enormous natural resources we have, but also contributed to significant emissions, it means that we need to take an additional responsibility in the climate struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3703	In Norway, we have developed a welfare society with small differences. In order to take care of it, we need to develop it further to become a viable welfare society. We are well-known for major challenges in the years to come: demography, digitisation, climate change, migration and transition from oil and gas production to green alternatives. For Norway, a full stop in oil business from 2020 would amount to 140 billion. kr less in the annual tax revenue of the country. Calculations show that around 300,000 people in and around the industry would be without a job to go to. The transition is forced to happen without threatening our welfare society. Right wants to change to keep. We want to preserve our common well-being. Social differences are a challenge to be met. The greatest difference lies in education. So we make sure that more people can complete higher education. The decline in Norwegian secondary schools is now falling. That's good. But the fact that you have a job to go to, provided more than education. It also implies that someone creates jobs or that you create them yourself. It may have a very big upside, but it's also a risk to both you and your family. New Analysis, SMB and BI presented a new report last week showing that the wealth tax, as it has been set up today, primarily affects the Norwegian everyday economy. Today's debate has revealed that the word 'property' gives people a picture of a kind of Robin Hood tax, where one takes money from the country's richest and gives to the poor. But it's not about gold or precious stones, nor is it about any economic elite. The reality is that 98 pst. of all those who pay taxes on wealth on working capital, have less than 20 million. kr in net equity. In total, these three billion are going to pay. kr in taxes on wealth. In difficult times, which are now threatening this small and medium-sized enterprise. It weakens their ability to invest for growth and create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3720	Never before have more people in the world been on the run from war, climate change, distress and misery. And the crises don't disappear if we close our eyes to them. In the face of the refugee crisis, we must take our responsibility and ensure that Norway is a safe port. Human rights do not end at the national border, and the Left believes that all people on refuge have the right to protection. The left will create a green future with freedom and opportunities for all. It's a liberal responsibility to take care of each other, and especially those of us who need it the most. We are going to help in the neighbourhoods where many have fled, we are going to accept quota refugees who are being distributed through the UN, and we are going to ensure that those seeking asylum in Norway are treated in a humane way and have their asylum applications properly dealt with. The left will have a liberal and humane asylum and immigration policy that takes care of those in need of protection. The red-green government picked up 1 000 quota refugees a year. The blue-green government picks up 3,000 a year. Refugee issues are best addressed through international cooperation and the role of the United Nations is crucial. The Left believes that the UN High Commissioner for the Role of Refugees must be strengthened. It is also essential that Europe cooperates more and does more to address our common migration challenges. Today's situation in Greece demonstrates that. We in Norway too have our share of responsibility for the heartbreaking and terrible situation in the refugee camps in the Greek islands, because we are also part of the EU-Turkey agreement. I am very pleased with the initiative of the European Commission to create a new migration agreement in Europe. We see that some countries are skeptical, but I am optimistic, because Europe must succeed together. Europe must find the solution together, and Norway must be part of it and take its share of responsibility. Norway can and must contribute more because we can, because human rights do not end at the national border. I am pleased that Norway has contributed a great deal of resources to help improve the humanitarian conditions of the refugee camps in Greece and the treatment of asylum applications, and has sent a medical emergency team. I am also pleased that the government has started the work of extracting vulnerable children's families from Greece. The left has fought hard to make it possible. The left wants Norway to contribute more — including by bringing more refugees from Greece to Norway — and that is what we continue to work for in government. Norway needs to do more because we can, and because human rights do not end at the national border.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3737	Spring has shown us the Norwegian welfare society at its best, where we have a strong social security network, where we trust each other and stand together in that regard, and where we have a prime minister and a government that does what is needed to secure people and business. The Korona crisis has been a major challenge for the entire Norwegian economy, for businesses, jobs and the wider population. But as always it has been hardest for them with at least, who like to have little education and work experience, and who are only out the door and lose the job when the times get tight. That is why the Right has been committed since the start of the crisis to ensure a strong social security network in order to prevent the crisis from exacerbating differences in society. When we know that one of the big differences in society is between those who have a job and those who are outside, our most important task in the future must be to get more people to work. We succeeded in 2017 after the oil price drop. Then the growth in purchasing power was strongest for the lower income group, those with the least, and we ended up with the lowest unemployment rate of ten years. Now we have to do it again. To achieve this, Norway must become one of the world’s best countries to start and run a business. First of all, we must have good conditions for innovation and environmental technologies. Companies like Beyonder in Sandnes, which use waste from the forest industry to make the world's most environmentally friendly batteries, have to grow and create more. We need better roads to get the goods moving faster, and we need to get Rogfast in place. Then we need a more competitive level of taxation, so that jobs remain in Norway. I hope that the left-hand side will now cancel its annual tax return NM, because this is not the time to compete to send the largest possible billion bills to the country's hard-tested companies, which are already struggling to keep the wheels running. I now also hope that the Center Party will finally drop its proposal on increased taxes on Norwegian ownership in the districts. It's high time. At least with the right, there's no doubt: we're going to take back our everyday lives and build a society of small differences. But then we need more in the job, create more and include more. We have that clear before, and we have to do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3750	It is less than a year before the elections, and the Labour Party has just made a good proposal to further develop our country for the 2020s. We have three main things that we'll bet on in the future: The first promise is about working life, and now that we're in the middle of a pandemic, work is more important than for a long time. We need to create new jobs, but first of all, we need to save the jobs we have. We in the Workers' Party believe that the general rule in working life must be firm, full jobs. The fight against small job breaks becomes a main concern for us. People are going to let go of hunting for guards to get a salary to live off. Working life must be safe and have decent pay and working conditions. Our second promise is about well-being. We know that everyone loses if someone stays outside. Therefore, universal welfare schemes are at the root of a social democratic policy. It is not the wallet to determine how well cancer treatment you receive. It's not the paycheck for Mom and Dad to decide if the six-year-old can go to SFO. We have to stop the two-way division in health and well-being. The third promise concerns the achievement of Norway's climate objectives. Now we're going to make a major transformation of society and our industry. To achieve this, we need to build on the skills we already have. New industries need to be built on the shoulders of what has ensured our well-being up to now. Emissions are to be brought down, job creation is to be lifted. We are still in a pandemic that requires the efforts of employees in our welfare services and from business, who are still facing demanding months. For culture and travel, it will still take many months for you to start drifting as normal. Workplaces that have the right to life must help to get through the crisis. In other words, we have a health crisis that spreads to all areas of society. Now in the future, the municipalities are going to carry the largest standards associated with the handling of the corona. The government promised to set up for these municipalities, but now we see that the municipalities are left with the bill anyway. 126 Workers' Party rapporteurs take a strong settlement with this in a chronicle of the nations: ‘We are the municipalities that have taken the largest part of both the work and the bill for closed schools and kindergartens, safe hospitals and home care, increased capacity for medical guards, fever patrols, testing, detection of infection and the purchase of infectious diseases equipment. It is our children in kindergartens, students in schools and the elderly in the hospitals who are affected by the government's lack of commitment to local economy, and we are sorry that the government and the minister, time and again, cannot meet us on this." With a Labour Party-led government from the next harvest, municipalities will receive this support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3770	Today, while we are conducting this year’s debate on the throne in a prosperous Norway and in the form, quite calmly, the international rug is much more dramatic. A world-wide pandemic rages and strikes the poorest. More than 70 million people are on the run because of war, poverty and climate change. We see that war and unrest spread, last to Nagorno-Karabakh, where civilians again become helpless victims of military acts. The government of peaceful Norway can – and should – take initiatives that can create processes for peace between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Norway is about to enter the UN Security Council. We can, as not an EU member, take own national peace-making initiative, and must do so. The focus on peace and reconciliation must be higher on the government's agenda. The same thing must work for disarmament. Norway is living in peace with its neighbours, but we see an increase in the level of major activism. The political tensions have also increased in our neighbourhood and most in the north. In a short time, we will receive the Stortinget second edition of the long-term defence plan. The first draft provided a few concrete answers to the well-defined challenges. Now we expect a concrete plan, especially for the first four years. We need to secure the defense in order to have a secure future. In parallel with the management of the long-term defence plan, the Stortinget shall also discuss the proposal for a representative of the Central Party to set up a General Emergency Commission. The last time we had such a commission, in 2000, they produced a report, and much has happened both nationally and internationally over the last 20 years. Terrorist attacks, serious accidents, pandemics, major fires and increasing climate change leading to major storms, floods and racists are just a few examples. We need defence, police, health and the other emergency teams to be equipped and trained to handle serious events separately and in combination. We need them to be able to prevent the events from happening. We need cooperation and a change in attitudes among individuals to ensure that households tend to have alternative heating, water, food and medicines in case of crises. The government’s centralisation of emergency seats, such as police and home security, and the signal of centralising changes within fire and rescue, mean that the overall preparedness under today’s government is uncertain and weak in many parts of the country. We have received a lot of support from the readiness seats of the representative proposal. The hope is that a broad majority on the Stortinget will also support the proposal for a comprehensive preparedness commission and how Norway will ensure our capacity for preventive work and the preparedness we need to meet more safely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3781	Norway and the world face the greatest crisis in many decades. The pandemic affects individuals and businesses all over the world. We're lucky in Norway that has economic muscles to spend hundreds of billions helping both individuals and businesses over the difficult period we're in. At the same time, there will be a lot of people who are going to lose their jobs and companies that are going to go bankrupt. But we're going to get through this period, even if it can be challenging. Because while the pandemic is raging, oil revenue will also fall in the coming years. That is why hundreds of thousands of new jobs need to be created in private companies. It is one of the real challenges we face in the future: we need to secure tax revenues to finance our good welfare society now and in the future. The right and government parties will not send a large tax bill to private shareholders. We must give them framework conditions that ensure development, not liquidation. The right has helped lower taxes on people and business by 25 billion. kr since 2013, and the latest SSB figures prior to the pandemic showed that around 58 000 new jobs had been created. The right will follow its tax policy by lowering the taxes on wealth on working capital. This is a special and anti-competitive taxing that unfairly affects value creation and Norwegian jobs. In particular, this family-owned corner stone holdings are affected in the districts, such as: Mrs. Haugan's Hotel in the Lake of Mosque. I have visited many businesses throughout the country this fall, and naturally very many in Northern Ireland. The feedback is clear. No one wants an increased tax bill; everyone thanks for the enormous turnover and asks for it to continue. They are a lifeguard for the casual association of the Centre Party with the EEA Agreement. The agreement ensures good market access for the goods produced and provides access to a market of over 500 million Europeans. This is important for export-oriented enterprises such as Elkem Salten in Sørfold and Rana Gruber and for the aquaculture industry. The EEA Agreement is essential for Norwegian jobs in the districts and for Norwegian welfare. Policy is about prioritizing, and it does the Right in Government, with lower taxes, increased frameworks for transport and the commitment to competence. The voters in Northern Ireland were misled at the last election to believe that the Central Party was investing in the districts. They have not shown this through practical action in Northern Ireland. So no one should be fooled into believing that a contagious laughter and beautiful promises are the salvation of the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3796	Covid-19 led to changes throughout the country. The coast's highway number one, the Hurtigruten, permitted and went into storage, so that there were only two of the eleven boats serving our coast. North Norway is dependent on the Hurtigruten, not least for sending and receiving goods. There was an understanding of the situation that arose in March 2020, but beyond the spring, it became clear that the despatches along the points of call broke out both economically and by getting goods in and out. The Hurtigruten was put entirely innocently in this difficult situation. Now, however, the situation is that, with the Hurtigruten made up of its famous cruises and the infection scandal at Fridtjof Nansen, it is precisely Hurtigruten himself that has exposed the coastal population to an unacceptable situation when they again reduce to only two boats. While all other sectors are slowly opening up and expanding their offerings, Hurtigruten has authorized the Norwegian seafarers, well assisted by the Stortinge Permitting Schemes, while collecting foreign seafarers, to whom they are still underpaid, to their cruise boats. It simply hurts to be a spectator of social dumping, not least because the Workers' Party has been a driver of the coastal route and for the state to pay for this service. This is despite the fact that Hurtigruten receives annual aid from the State of 856.1 million. kr, justified on the basis of actual aid to maintain local passenger traffic and freight transport. The state pays a lot, and the coastal population gets minimally back. An example from the point of access to Havøysund in West Finland can illustrate what they can expect in October: 52 cancellations, 20 days this month there will be no boat trip, 12 days there will be one approach, towards two calls every day normally, only six approaches on the southern side that can take fish southwards, provided that the Boat Fjord and the other fishing forces east have not filled up the freight capacity. This offer is no longer acceptable. The requirement is crystal clear: the high-speed route must be quiet with several ships, otherwise other freight boats must be installed on the route Bergen-Kirkenes. The points of call report that this offer does not contribute to supporting business and increasing our fishing exports. I repeat: this offer is no longer acceptable to the people of the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3809	2020 has been and will continue to be the different year and the coronary year. That's the year the six-year-old learned to wash her hands with antibac and now she automatically does it before she goes into a store. But I fear that we will not come back to a so-called normalized everyday life before the earliest next summer. That's why it's especially important not to take away the youth's dream of owning a home, a job to thrive in, a safe everyday life for themselves and their families. So now is not the time to reduce the loan framework for young people across the country who want to buy their own home. Yes, we can discuss the possibility of getting a loan five times the income, if that amount is too high, but it's a discussion we have to take over time, not conclude now. As the Right sees it, it is important to look at solutions that can be right for as many as possible of those who all over the country dream of buying their own home to realize their dream – not only solutions that meet in the capital region and around the big cities, but also in Friends, in Bugøynes and in Aurskog-Høland. We have a good mechanism in the mortgage regulation. Instead, let's discuss it and the level of it before we decide to lower the loan framework for everyone. A safe everyday life is important to all of us. That's why I visited East Police District last week, and on direct questions about the police reform and its effect, the police feedback was ready. Someone probably wants to get back to the time with a lenner. But our society has changed a lot in a short time. We've all become much more digitized, and the ability to detect profit crime, fraud, crime of violence and net crime would have been completely impossible with the old organization. You have to have skills that can reveal, and at the same time you have to have enough crews to move out locally. The complexity of the changes in the crime scene supports the fact that the reform was fully in place, according to East police districts. This feedback is confirmed by the police's own evaluation of the reform, a reform that is outrageous and ridiculed, but which the police themselves believe is a success. Minister of Justice Monica Mæland announced last week that the police districts will have a total of 26 million transferred. kr for 500 response personnel, so-called IP3 crews, to be trained at the new emergency centre, which opened in Nordre Follo in September, and which will be fully operational by the end of the year. That means that now 500 policemen are going to get training they haven't had before, and they don't have today either. The goal of two police teams per thousand inhabitants is a good and measurable goal, and it will help to ensure everyone's daily lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3831	The night of September 8th, the Moria camp burned it down. Thousands of people who already had little lost everything now. Moria has been a ticking bomb for a long time, with desperate people in a crowded camp with limited services and facilities. Greece has tried to remedy the situation by moving people to the mainland, but new refugees and migrants have constantly come to the island, while European countries have been less willing to share responsibility and accept people from Lésvos. The Norwegian government's response to the fire was to open up 50 refugees from Moria to Norway. Over 100 Norwegian municipalities have offered to receive much more. Only Trondheim, from whom I myself come, has said that they can accept twice what the government has opened up to. The contrast between people's and Norwegian municipalities' commitment to some of the most vulnerable on this globe and the government's efforts on the other hand are exhilarating. The compromise reached by the Government Parties in this case is not a contribution to cooperation. The government wanted Norway to move first when eight to ten other countries took refugees out of the Moria camp. Retiring back and letting others take responsibility first, so to come reluctantly after, is not what we need now. What we need now are countries and heads of state who provide for people in distress, who do it without hesitation, who do it without waiting for others to take the first step, which makes it necessary: to help people in extreme distress. Norwegian municipalities take this role. As I said, over 100 municipalities have said that they are ready to accept refugees from Moria. More than ever, cooperation is needed to solve the major challenges facing the world — not governments that hesitate and that wait for other countries to take the first step and take responsibility. I would also like to mention proposal No. 68 and 69, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3844	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3849	Privatisation — common values and well-being are now concentrated on fewer private hands. It's all from our natural resources, like the forest, to the safety of health care or pensions, that you have to take increasingly a private responsibility to take care of. It is either through conscious political choices, such as when the cleaners of the Defence Department or those who wash the floor of our trains lose earned pension rights, or when market forces are released on the market by nature, in some cases simply because the community and the revenues of our common welfare state are under-prioritised. All of this creates greater differences, and it creates insecurity out there among the people of our country. In the 1980s, some claimed that the differences had to increase in order for the economy to function better. Today we know it's just nonsense. That's the exact opposite of what the right hand side asserted at that time. Because we know that it is in those countries with small differences, a strong welfare state and economic security for the broad group of the population that health is best, crime is lowest, and people are most satisfied. Therefore, we now need a fairer Norway, with less differences. We need a Norway where our natural resources benefit communities, whether they are distributed among the hands of the many or owned together. Trond Helleland's comment today, as a representative and parliamentary leader of the largest government party, was alarming. He claimed that there was no role played by a German purchase fund buying up a large part of Trundellag and the forest, because the forest was apparently in Norway anyway. It is breaking with a fundamental principle of how we have managed our hydropower, fish, oil and soil. We know that it is by prioritizing jobs and value creation that we create the good communities, instead of speculative prices where the raw material is only sold out directly without any requirements for local ring effects or processing. As an appreciator, we have a very important magnification choice in front of us. These are fundamental aspects of how the welfare state works and how our natural resources in Norway are to be distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3862	To begin with, I would like to send a greeting to two everyday heroes who are fighting for, among other things. The apprentices on the weight strike, Jason and Kenneth, who every day do an important job for safety at the airport and the Danish boat, but who are currently fighting an important strike for a low-wage group. After seven years of right-wing government, we really see the results of Right's policy. We see a brutalized hub that drives people into hopelessness, or quarantine, which it's called. Children's families will not be able to cover the real costs of neither dental regulation nor glasses for the young people who need it. Differences are increasing. Those with little have been considerably poorer, while those with much have really known how much easier that tax bill was without creating a single job extra. In contrast, working life has been more brutal – not very much for those with high wages, but for cleaners, weights, carpenters, nurses, shoplifters and taxi drivers, it has not been better. They still have to work part-time and fight for extra guards. Some of them work even shared shifts on Saturdays. These everyday heroes burn so much more than a pat on the shoulder and thank you for working extra in the coronary crisis. They promote more well-being, better job security, better pay with full, fixed settings. We can continue this range – with public sector cheese requirements, cut off physical therapy for burned and amputated persons, pensioners who have lost billions of dollars in purchasing power in the last few years, and cut off redundancy money and nurturing money. The last point, we've mostly used the entire period now to fix it again. The Kutzukja is very, very late. This draws an image of a government that fights for the richest, which goes against those who have little, and who are tired of making everyday life go around. In this way, the government has really gained momentum in the development of differences. The differences between the small and the large are at a historically high level. It's really not a success recipe to get more on the team or for the future. SV will also have a policy for the many, not for them. We will lead a policy that benefits those who take the heaviest, those who care the least, and those who need an outstretched hand from the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3877	In the languages of the throne, we representatives can discuss what topics we want, and what things we want to shed light on. I want to make the Stortinget aware of an important topic that is addressed in the documentary «The Social Dilemma», where former programmers and programme developers in Silicon Valley go out and tell about the more harmful aspects of social media, how social media and self-learning algorithms intended to increase the profit of platforms are involved in changing the world as we know it, because they drastically change people and how people experience the society we live in. The documentary provides more content and evidence for this and how it happens in practice than what I can reproduce with my limited speaking time here in the hall. But it clearly shows how social media have deliberately evolved to become more addictive by implementing design that liberates dopamine from the user – all of this in order to sell more ads. We're the product, and algorithms that harvest information from us, use our data to give us more targeted content, to keep us more involved and to give us more ads. They're only doing this to sell ads. Conspiracy theories that everyone in this room today can easily reject as a lie are gaining ever greater scope because of this inhumane device on the algorithms, and this is at risk of damaging modern democracies and an enlightened debate. I ask all the representatives to take a closer look at how social media affects our society. Because it's a great tool to connect with people, but it also has a backside that we've so far begun to see: what damage this does to young adults, with more depression, self-damage and self-damage. We have started to see the consequences of an increasingly polarising society. Maybe here in this room we need to work to get regulations that can help control this change before it gets too late. And we have to keep the big social platforms responsible for spreading content that is clearly untrue and does damage our democracy. We need to have a conversation about how we can help regulate these platforms, because it is quite obvious that they cannot regulate themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3892	Parents and children in contact with child protection are whole people. They often need help beyond what child protection can offer them. Child protection is primarily an expert on what good care is, and what is care failure, but not necessarily on mental health or other life challenges that these people often have. People who have these kinds of challenges need someone who has time, who sees them, and who is based on the strength that is already in them – even if sometimes it may need to be sought or helped. Therefore, it is important for the Christian People's Party that we make even greater efforts to ensure that child protection can work well with other help agencies in the municipality. Barnas Station run by Blå Kors in Kristiansand, Lister and Lindesnes are good examples of how municipalities and NPISHs can work together to ensure the safety and care of both children and adults. This type of cooperation helps to ensure good development for children and to strengthen parental competence. In September I also visited the House of Possibilities in Vennesla. Those who work there are busy lifting up just the opportunities that lie in each individual human being, and building up under these instead of just focusing on the problems. It was incredibly strong to see and hear about how people who themselves have been in a difficult situation and managed to get their lives on the right cold, now want to use their lives to help others in the same situation they once were in. The way they also worked with whole families, and not just with individuals, gave completely different opportunities for change in people's lives. The Christian People's Party will continue to strengthen the important work of non-governmental organisations and non-profit actors in different arenas. We will also work to ensure that child protection is even more closely associated with ideal actors. Here there are really good opportunities for valuable co-creation. Measures directed by ideals often have a lower threshold to create the absolutely necessary trust that is a prerequisite for accepting help to break negative patterns. The combination of professionals and volunteers offering long-term relationships and measures can deliver good and lasting results. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the new Children's Protection Act that comes to spring is adding up to this – that we should strengthen prevention in municipalities and that aid agencies should have better cooperation across the board. It's good for the individual, the family and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3907	When the prime minister in his New Year's speech wanted more sunshine stories from child protection, many believed in the fine words and good wishes. Finally, disadvantaged children would have a better everyday life. Last week, a new report from the Riksrevision came, including the one with incriminating criticism. Once again, the government answers that they work with improvements, that they plan a range of activities and actions. The fine words can no longer cover the fact that the policies they run are not good for children and families in the most vulnerable situations. Civil policy increases disparities, creates greater inequality and more exclusion. The child protection alone is good enough reason to change the government, but also that we now see a social sliding flight back to what was once: when the differences were formidable, when a few well-appointed owners and had most of it. We see it through that the government chooses alms for Christmas when it becomes too embarrassing to see the queues at the Salvation Army for food and gifts, or as summer approaches, and there are too many families without advice for summer activities. A society that gives gifts to deserving ones — it is the new civil society. The Korona crisis has made it worse for many. The government's general government policy to address the differences and inequalities that only grow shows that we need a stronger community. How many more children have to refuse to go on birthday because they don't have the money to buy birthday gifts for their classmates, before the government realizes that tax cuts in the billions class do not benefit these children and their families, but only increase the differences and are unfair policies? The working party will make everyone work for work number one. We want to strengthen the welfare state, and we want to spend the big money on making everyday life safer and society fairer. The Labour Party believes this must be done if differences in Norway are to be reduced and opportunities are to be increased – no matter who you are and where you live. We want to build a child-restraint that takes care of the best of children, that is perceived and perceived as legal certainty, and that is trusted. We want an expert group to review the legal certainty of all aspects of child protection, that child protection should be operated publicly and non-profit, because child protection is not suitable for commercial use. And we will use our common economy to strengthen child protection, not to increase profits in commercial companies. The government contributes year after year to a development where the differences between people are increasing, where the gap between city and country is reinforced, where joint investment and property are sold and privatised, and where people experience job and job insecurity. It's both an old-fashioned and an unorthodox development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3924	Since 2013, the government has been pursuing an economic policy to make us less oil dependent, to increase the ability to convert and to give the Norwegian economy more weight to stand on. We have made record investments in transport, raising schools, education and research in combination with reducing the tax burden on businesses and households. It's a demanding six months we've put behind us. But when the crisis hit us, Norway had a much better starting point than most other countries. The fact that we have built reserves in good times has made it possible to put in place powerful measures in response to the biggest crisis in the Norwegian economy in the post-war period. We've spent several hundred billion dollars to meet the immediate brake in the Norwegian economy, provide income protection to people, compensate the municipalities, avoid mass redundancies and help people have a job to get back to after we're out of the dark tunnel. The recovery process has been faster than expected. Nevertheless, Norwegian business continues to be in an extremely demanding situation. Many jobs are gone, and many have lost their life's work. The situation in the markets outside the world does not help us. Although unemployment is reduced, there are still almost 200,000 people looking for a job and 106 000 are still completely unemployed. There's too many of them. That's why it's essential that we get the time off and the job creation up. And if there's something the coronary crisis has taught us, it's the significance of private jobs. Nine out of ten lay-offs have been in private companies. It's in the private businesses the new jobs have to be created. We don't need any more state-run nutrition. Yes, we need to facilitate good framework conditions, but we politicians are not experts in setting up businesses. And this is not the time for tax increases, either for those who create new private jobs, or for those who struggle to get their everyday lives around. The way out of the crisis is about creating more and including more and securing people's lives. We've made that clear in five clear objectives: we're going to get people back to work, we're not going to have time off. We need to ensure even more legs to stand on and grow in private business. We're going to create a green future. We will implement the Education Commitment 2020. We need to include more. The road to these goals is both a way out of the crisis and a good step on the way to solving the longer-term challenges we face, which is to ensure sustainability for well-being in the future. At the same time, we must maintain the security and trust of Norwegian society. The crisis challenges our ability to innovation and change. Even though the prospects for the future are uncertain, we have all kinds of assumptions to make it. But we don't solve the challenges of the future of dreaming back to the past. The most important thing now is to stand out and control the infection. Then we can increase the activity of the economy even more, and together we can take the everyday life back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3939	It's the teachers' day today, and I want to start this article by thanking all the country's teachers. The crisis we were in in March has clearly shown us how important teachers are in our society. Teachers have conducted distance education for an entire nation. They've gone a long way, because teachers know how important it is for children to go to kindergarten and school. They know how important it is for children to be part of a community, and they've been worried about those kids who don't have it so well at home, who need a lot of follow-up, and who have had it extra difficult at this time. Schools across the country are now reporting increased expenditure due to coronary intervention. Minister of Knowledge Guri Melby has promised that additional expenditure will be compensated, but in many municipalities the additional expenditure is not fully covered. In many municipalities, schools are told to take the corona expenditure within the ordinary budget, which will mean cutting child care and school budgets. Now SV demands that the crisis package for the schools be on the table soon, because it is our children who have paid the highest price in the coronary crisis. Guri Melby has told me she's going to take the entire bill for the Korona School. Now she must keep what she has promised and not fail the students and kindergartens. Because it is obvious that the offer in kindergartens and schools will be worse when the school register is empty and the principals and nursery officials see only red figures in their budgets. A survey from Response's Analysis shows that sick leave among children's home workers has increased dramatically after the summer, and many kindergartens do not have money for temporary workers. And it's not just the head of the Education Association, Steffen Handal, who's worried about the crew situation in kindergartens now, it's also us in SV. Managers in Norwegian kindergartens lack tools to ensure proper operation, and the use of temporary workers is also not always as easy. It may be irresponsible to use temporary workers who do not know the work of the children or kindergarten. The anti-infectious measures also reduce the flexibility of the operation of kindergartens. Because of the organisation in cohorts, departments do not have the ability to help each other, as they tend to do. It's more urgent than ever to put in a crisis package for the schools. It is unprofessional and arrogant not to answer how much money the government intends to grant, and how much money is spent to cover for the million amounts this is about. SV would like the government to be clearer about what the government plans to finance schools and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3952	The Christian People's Party and the government are committed to following the situation in the Middle East. The Middle East has long been one of the world's most conflict-affected regions, and the situation has deteriorated in the last ten years. The conflict between Israel and Palestinians, formerly referred to as ‘the mother of all conflicts’, has in fact been overshadowed by other and more dangerous deadly conflicts over the past decade. The threats of the Al Qaeda terrorist group were the dominant threat long after 11 September 2001, but in 2014 the safety challenges of Al Qaeda were overshadowed by IS, the Islamic State, which wanted to build an extreme caliphate in the region. Parts of Syria and Iraq were subject to the caliphate's fright regime. It took many years before IS lost territorial control, but still IS is a threat. We see the consequences of this in our country too. The Assad regime in Syria knew itself threatened by the popular uprising that spread. The land and the people were then demolished. IS and Al Qaida terrorized large areas of Syria and Iraq, and then came the Turkish invasion of border areas, which complicated the situation. The Syria crisis has created millions of internally displaced persons and refugees seeking protection in other countries and is ranked year after year as the world's greatest humanitarian disaster. The humanitarian crisis in Syria was, if possible, only overcome by the crisis in Yemen, as an epicenter for humanitarian suffering. The tension and distress in the Middle East involve us in the Christian People's Party and in the Government, and we must try with our resources to contribute to the improvement. The old and unresolved Palestine conflict has come more into the shadow. There have been boundless military battles between Hamas and Fatah on the West Bank. The PLO has had some cooperation with Israel, but the conflict persists. However, other regional security challenges have come to the fore. Trump's debated peace plan was made in unilateral cooperation with Israel and rejected by the Palestinians, who are now regionally weakened because the Emirates and Bahrain have recently established diplomatic relations, as Egypt and Jordan have done years ago. The main regional rivals of the Middle East are the Sunni-Muslim Saudi Arabia and the Shia-Muslim Iran. Their economy is also dominated by falling oil revenues, which can lead to a development of new instability, conflicts and humanitarian suffering, to which we must be prepared. The Middle East is Europe's neighbourhood. Norway is easily affected by the conflicts there, both in terms of security policy and humanitarian matters. The Christian People's Party is concerned with both the political and humanitarian aspects of the crises. It's about people who deserve to live in peace. As a member of the UN Security Council, Norway must also contribute to international work on conflict resolution, peacekeeping and humanitarian aid. We should take that responsibility – in the pact with the best Norwegian traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3972	It's easy to say that while we're waiting for a vaccine, the community has been the best medicine in the time of the Corona. When there was a need for swift action in our house, we were together at Stortinget. I think we should be proud that Norwegian policy has been put together in such a way that it is possible to achieve when the crises hit us. Then there'll be a time when we have to evaluate. Were we well prepared? How did we act when the Koron met us? Why didn't we have enough infective equipment? Were the advice people received, predictable and clear enough? But for months that have gone by, I've been glad that I can watch press conferences where Erna Solberg and Bent Höie also appear as if they want my best in the fight against the virus, even though they represent a completely different party. There's no obvious situation like that. It's just looking at the United States. Infectious diseases are likely to be the best example of why everyone benefits from help without health insurance or money, and getting the best help available, because when everyone has the right to free health care, it limits its spread. In New York was a coronary patient's last word before he was to be put in a respirator: who's going to pay? That's why it's worth noting that the solutions that this home has been called for are just community and cohesion. It's the public hospitals, along with the municipal health services, that have set up to get control of the virus. The market and businesses have called on the state for help, and so has the financial crisis. There has been little call for more private solutions, except at the Right. There will now be a «fixed track» for the privatisation of health services, and the word «dugnad» has been reduced to remove the wealth tax on many millionaires most, not a good deal for most people. For the Workers' Party, good work is about a health service that has to be there for everyone. It's also about setting up companies so that they can get through the crisis, but at the same time it's about not paying dividends or bonuses to their managers. The virtue is to build the community hospital stronger, so that we get through both good and bad days, not a good thing to break up and create the stock exchange of the common health services that today get us through the coronary crisis in a pretty good way here in Norway. The Corona has really taught us that when it comes to it, our community is the best medicine. It's a medicine that the Workers' Party will develop further, not liquidate, as we now see trends at Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3983	Norway, if Norway has the same policies as the government, will lack 28 000 nurses and 18 000 health professionals in 2035. We need 6,000 nurses today, and the problems are coming up if we don't change the policy. In healthcare, most jobs are in part-time jobs. It is unusual to have whole, fixed positions. Think about it! If many of those who have part-time jobs get full-time jobs, we can clear up a lot of the gaps in order to get health professionals we need. What does the government do through health businesses to get full, permanent jobs? Well, they're suing four nurses who want full time. I want to commend these four nurses who are fighting a fight for many in the health care community. It is a shame that the government is actively countering nurses who want a full job. The government and Bent Höie could have stopped the case against the nurses in Eastfold, but have not done so. I and SV propose that the Stortinget intervene in order for the government and health companies to employ more people in the entire permanent posts, and that the Hospital Østfold should not appeal the case against these nurses. Today, the parties have to decide whether Stortinget will support those who work on the health care floor or the leaders at the top of health businesses. SV selects those who care and treat patients. If Stortinget overrules the government, we can finally work against the major manning problems we have in getting more entire, permanent jobs in the health care system. I refer to SV's proposal No. 61 and SV and proposal No. Sixty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e3996	The representative of Nicolas Wilkinson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4001	Finnmark has had a crazy economic growth in the last ten years. In fact, we've had the highest growth in the country in the north. It is therefore important for me to point out that there is quite great optimism in my part of the country. Also in Finnmark you've gone to the brink of implementing the green shift, and I think that green hydrogen produced in Berlevåg will give us a new industrial venture, which will also cut emissions locally and nationally. Although the way out of the crisis has started so far, I trust that we can do this, and that the transition to green, sustainable jobs will provide better predictability in the economy and create more jobs that include more. Creating a sustainable well-being is job number two. The first is most important for this generation, and the second is most important for the generations that come after. Our business doesn't need a tax bill from the Workers' Party when the party is picking up billions to finance its big business program, especially when the way out of the crisis has begun. We need security about Norway's relationship with the EU, which is a market for our products. Many arrows are now pointing up, and that is the result of this government's policy, because more young people are now completing advanced education because we called on the students to meet them. It has worked, but the absence limit will cancel the left-hand side. Students need more teachers who have competence in what they teach. The right-hand government has strengthened continuing training and established five-year teacher training, and those who take up employment in Finnmark, in North Norway, receive additional write-downs on student loans. This has reversed the teaching shortage in the country. The Workers' Party will reverse our competence reform. Business needs more people with more skills, and we can't talk down our neighborhood in this room. That gives us a worse reputation. People have to hear the good stories about a successful business life, even if you're in the north, and about people who succeed, because there's more of them. I'm always going to be Finnmarking. Even though the county and administration are linked with Troms, it doesn't add up to my identity. And instead of looking forward and making sure to deliver even better services to the inhabitants of the country, we're going to say that the left-hand side is going into an uplifting reversal. Because only when the reversal is over can we look forward. The arrows are pointing up now, and it should be the starting point for the development of Finnmark and the northern regions and parts of the country. Therefore, the government is required to provide a north-eastern notification to show the ambition of this government. I have great faith that we're both getting out of the crisis, and that we're still going to see a Finnland with a crazy economic growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4020	In Norway, we have a great need to transform our business to increase export income, create more jobs and become less oil dependent. Prime Minister Solberg was concerned about oil dependence when she formed a government in 2013. At that time, the trade deficit was 248 billion. kr, if you ignored oil and gas. In 2019, the same trade deficit was over 400 billion. kr. The main industrial policy instrument of the right-wing government is to lower taxes on wealth for individuals. In light of the fact that we know that cuts in property taxes do not create jobs, among other things. from today's report by the Frischsenteret and the NMBU, it is no wonder that the right-wing government has failed to convert Norwegian business. The Labour Party believes that the state has an important role to play in creating new jobs through active industrial policies, and we also believe that it is urgent. Active enterprise policy is to raise capital, typically in partnership with private individuals, it is to ensure access to the necessary infrastructure, including broadband, secure exports, for example. by means of joint promotion of Norway as a travel destination and by means of regional development funds. Then we need to ensure that the public sector demands green technology from sustainable businesses. It's very important when we know that the public trades for $600 billion. kr per year. We have also faced new industries using new technologies, for example: when Norway found the oil. The State committed itself to ensuring that the values benefited the community and to ensure that Norwegian industry was competitive. The state even established a company, which today has warned against in a number of articles. The Labour Party wants us to be able to use more business policy tools to create new jobs and export revenues, including: in marine wind, hydrogen and ammonia production, health technology, space industry and aquaculture. Mineral extraction is currently difficult to finance, and we believe that the state must be able to contribute capital, because the industry can create new jobs, and because minerals are fundamental to the green shift. The Workers' Party believes that travel life is an industry that we will live on in the future. Many travel businesses received some income during the summer holidays, but now they have no income, and today the whole of Europe is closed. They have no help with their fixed expenses, no help in September, not now in October – yes, we don't know if it's any help getting out of the year. They stand alone in a situation where the market is closed by infectious measures. It's unpredictable, and it's unfair. Travel businesses must also be included in the work. The lack of assistance from the government and the support wheel The Progress Party creates risks for many bankruptcies and losses of large values in an industry that will generate export revenue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4035	After hearing contributions from a number of Right-wing Representatives in this Chamber today – representatives from Greece, Tetzschner, Rodum Agdestein and now, last but not least, Haukland – on taxes, and especially taxes on wealth, some clarifications are needed. So the property tax is the most redistributive tax we have, heads for heads. The taxes on wealth are paid by people, not businesses – I repeat: people. If you completely remove the property tax, as the Court of Justice has adopted, there will be more than 30 000 new zero-taxors in Norway. It's $16. to completely eliminate taxes on wealth. It's equivalent to half of the municipal hospitals around the whole of Norway. The most important thing about this article is to say that there is nothing called working capital. It's a politically invented concept. It is called a valuation discount on shares and operating assets, and shares represent 88 pst. Per-Kristian Foss even called it a stock tax. Bank deposits are not referred to by Right as working capital, but are well as working, because when you have money in the bank, they are lent out to companies that invest in projects. The Prime Minister knows all this, the Minister of Finance knows all this, yes, both the current leader and former leaders of the Finance Committee know this, and the Christian People's Party leader, who is still talking about working capital, knows this. But they use this term to deliberately mislead a complicated tax debate. This cut in wealth tax also allocates resources from all over the country to Oslo west and Bærum. That's where the people with big financial assets sit. And the cut in the valuation discount - almost half - has gone to people with assets of over 100 million. kr. But the worst of all is that these cuts in the wealth tax that have been made, which Right now plans to continue, increase the differences – without creating new jobs. Today we have received a report from the Health Centre saying that property taxes can actually provide a few more jobs in family-run businesses. And ten days ago we got a report from the SSB that shows that the richest in Norway turns out to be twice as rich as we thought before, and they pay less taxes on their income than teachers and nurses. New policies are needed in this country, for more exports, for better distribution and for enhanced well-being. The main priority of removing taxes on wealth is not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4050	We live in an uncertain time, but never has the importance of knowledge been more evident. Higher education, research and competences will be fundamental to Norway’s further development. It is a fundamental recognition for us in the Workers' Party now when we set the direction for the 2020s. We will use knowledge policies to enable Norway to address the major societal challenges of our time. We've all seen how essential knowledge and research were and are in the fight against the coronary virus. This is also crucial for our ability to have a fair transition, for the sustainable development of the economy and the welfare state. In the new programme of the Workers' Party and in our new strategy for higher education, research and competence, more decentralised education is a key action. We want more education near people. Equal access to knowledge throughout life is fundamental, both for each, for the regions and for Norway as a whole. We want to develop, not liquidate. In the programme, we therefore propose to strengthen the regional responsibilities of teaching establishments, we will have stepping-up plans for study places throughout the country, and we will strengthen research on good welfare services. This is a worrying shortage of professionals, including: in welfare professionals, such as nurses and teachers, and this needs to be addressed by offering professional training throughout the country. Regional presence is therefore needed to strengthen the decentralised supply. The Labour Party will therefore support proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. We've already programmed it. Proposal No. 88, from the Progress Party, to review the funding categories in higher education, we can also support, but that review should be comprehensive. We proposed this in 2015, and we have done so later, but the Progress Party has voted it down. If they had supported the proposal six years ago in government, the necessary adjustments would have already been made. A measure that we're less sure of the effect of, which you have to mention here, is the left-wing idea of certifying the teachers. Together with the majority of the Church, Education and Research Committee, we supported a proposal for such an investigation in 2017. We would like to ask for it, as proposed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of But we note that the Progress Party once again proposes something that they in government have not followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4061	We are in a difficult time with the pandemic hanging over us, but the spirit of hard work and the efforts of many have helped us in many areas of society to get through pretty well what must be said to have been – and is – a demanding time for many. Of course, it is particularly tough for those who are out of work, who experience that life's work is threatened, and who know about insecurity. For us adults, though, hopefully, it's only a period in our adult life as it's extra tough. For our kids, however, it's not just childhood – first, second or third grade – it's about. That's the time that's here, and only now, and the work of facilitating the smallest is therefore very important. It is in this context that I think it is in place today to give credit to all the teachers who have stood on and stretched far so that our children will not be harmed and lose valuable education. It is particularly important for younger children to follow closely, so that we ensure that everyone, regardless of background and support from home, is filled with what is so important in order to achieve basic skills in reading, writing and billing – skills that must be acquired early and that are so crucial for further education. That is precisely why we prioritised this group both when society was gradually reopened before the summer, and through the subsequent targeted actions towards those who need special organisation and follow-up. The municipalities that school owners are responsible for monitoring this clear priority across the country and for providing sufficient resources for the proper follow-up of the individual student, so that this responsibility should not lie with the individual teacher. From the government and from the Storting, we have been very clear that all corona-related expenses will be covered, and there is a close dialogue with KS to reveal the scope. So when I hear stories about cuts in the school that go under the flag of ‘coronakut’, I will protest strongly. None – and I stress: none – of the school budgets should be able to be argued to be related to the coronary situation. That has also been confirmed by the Minister of State. So far the municipalities have been given 16.5 billion. kr as a result of the coronary eruption. In addition, the municipal action room has increased by 9 billion. kr as a result of lower price and salary increases. So when I previously heard the representative Tvidt Solberg from the Workers' Party talk about Koronacutt in school, I realized that they are now trying to push in front of themselves red-green municipalities that have struggled with excess consumption for other reasons. But what you're really pushing in front of is our kids and their opportunities in what's already a demanding time. This should be done too well, especially when you have been informed that all the corona costs will be covered. Our children and Norwegian school deserve better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4076	The budget decides a lot of money each year for important transport projects. Overall, by 2020, the transport budget is over 74 billion. kr. More money no longer means more way and way. More money now goes largely to cover increased costs that have arisen due to a lack of cost control. Many of the expansion projects cover several years. The majority grants money on the basis of investigations and cost analyses provided by the government. Powers are given to the government of the annual government budgets so that large projects are ensured progress over several years. In the last few months, we've seen a big change in people's travel patterns. New solutions have emerged that are likely to stand even after the coronary situation is over. If, in the future, a large proportion of workers can choose a more flexible working time and more use of home offices, there will be less need for increased capacity on public transport and on roads, especially in and around the largest cities, where capacity challenges are greatest. There is a high cost of expanding infrastructure that is dimensioned for rush times – the few hours during the day when very many people use the road, bus and train. So we have to ask ourselves, what is the need in 10, 20 and 30 years? Is there the same number of people who have to be at work between hours? 8 o'clock and 8 o'clock 16? The legacy of the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport is a lack of cost control – over-costs in the billions class, poor management of large projects and a huge toll debt. This has been in the right of the government and looked at without taking the necessary responsibility. Due to the lack of cost control and poor management over several years, the current Minister for Transport Hareide has seen a need to pull the brake. He has understood this and that it cannot continue. He will have control of projects and costs. ‘Great increases in the cost of railway projects naturally challenge the progress made in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 and in the Railway Directorate’s action programme’ says Hareide. There are extensive urban growth agreements at a government cost of 66 billion. DKK over 12 years, a toll package for 20 billion. 50 B.C.E. kr to a 17.3 km long road west of Oslo, and the Follobane project is expected to receive a final cost of 35 billion. kr, a project that has galloping costs and constant delays without the responsibility and cleaning up of the State Councils of the Progress Party. This government and the previous government have made it very difficult to meet the promises contained in today’s NTP and have provided a very poor basis for the next NTP to be addressed to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4091	After today's rose-painting of government policy, I need to show that after seven years of right-wing government, we have fewer in work, and we have more in social security. The share of us in the job has gone down. We export too little – and less and less – and more people are out of work. There are not enough jobs created. In addition, the government has opened up temporary jobs, and they do nothing to stop social dumping and also do nothing for organised labour. Different parties have gone in and out of Erna Solberg's government for seven years, but the course has always been the same: the differences are increasing, and the trust between people disappears. An example is the government's consistent work on the labour society and on security in and for work. In more and more areas there are now major problems with temporary workers. Here, for example, it can be done. Reference is made to liberalisation in taxi legislation. With the Minister of Transport of the Progress Party and the Labour Party and the rest of the opposition's votes, the government has decided that the taxi industry should be opened up to freelance workers, and now tax incentives should also be removed. This is in plain terms Galimatia and shows the government's attitude towards the layman's society. At the top of it all, the right government will carry out this liberalisation in the middle of a pandemic, while the organised taxi industry is down to count. We got new numbers from Taxi Depot at Gardermoen today. The number of journeys from the aerodrome in September 2020 is 73 pst. in the corresponding period 2019 and 2018. In other words, the dry-driving industry has broken back, and now they are going to have competition from non-executive and non-taxamers. The representative of the government party Left, Gunnes, said the following to the website E24 in April: ‘My advice has been that we postpone until we are back to a normal state. Then everyone is on the starting line to adjust to a new code, and no one has jumped or has taken punishments before the new scheme.’ I don't normally advise anyone to listen to the Left, but this council was actually very good. The right hand government is on the side of the better-advised. Those with the least get the least, and the only supplement they get is an uncertain everyday life and an uncertain future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4109	The President recalls that the term ‘galimatias’ has previously been cited as inappropriate parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4115	Ownership of the program gives security, pride, self-confidence and enthusiasm, and it's contagious. Yes, it's heard and shown when Jonas Gahr Støre talks about the importance of the big problems we do best together. In the new programme proposals of the Workers' Party, the main issues are safe work for all, a strong defence of public welfare and an effective and fair climate policy. Work and income provide security for individuals, families and communities. A decent and serious work life in which employees are organised and co-ordinated ensures both competence and competitiveness. We need more skilled and proud skilled workers both in the private and public sectors. This is why the Labour Party proposes a strong boost for the professions – equipment lifting, three apprentices per thousand inhabitants and a stronger commitment to higher vocational education. The right-wing government has reduced regional policy instruments, resulting in a weakening of regional competitiveness. The working party is concerned with strengthening jobs and settlements in the rural areas, which must include: The differentiated employer’s fee is maintained as a tool for the approximately 200 district municipalities that have lower rates today. The dream of the Workers' Party is a strong community where we make the differences smaller and the possibilities greater regardless of background and place of residence. After political leadership and central management signals, Nav Trundellag sent out on 20 August a letter, which is not public, about cuts in 68 places to Work-Preparing Training. Kapto Skaun lost all five seats, Rosenvik in Orkland lost 35 seats. Today, the waiting lists in AFT sites are long, and they are longer. Then it's the wrong medicine to cut places for those who need it the most. At the end of August, more than 357,000 persons aged 18–67 received disability benefits. The number of persons receiving social security has never been higher. It creates greater differences, and it creates extraterrestrials. The ambition of the working party is a stronger community to solve the big problems together. The government introduced the red tape and efficiency reform in 2015 and has since cut the budget for government activities by 0.5pst–0.7pst. annual. The cuts mean, among other things, that the NTNU budget for 2020 is cut by 34 million. kr. The total cut since 2015 is a total of 230 million. kr. And Helge Holden, professor of mathematical science at NTNU, writes that this is no reform, but cut into the budgets that result in poorer supply and quality in teaching and research. Local hospitals need to be developed and strengthened, and feeding needs to be ensured. Therefore, the Workers' Party will strengthen the midwife services in the municipalities, where people live and live their lives. The Workers' Party will never accept public welfare services such as kindergartens, schools, hospitals and hospitals being confiscated for money and professionals in order to build up private offerings. On the right, differences between people and between cities and countries are increasing. We can't accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4136	The eye is clear, the government has spoken, and Industry-Noreg is addressing the challenge: carbon capture, transport and storage, CCS, is absolutely necessary for Norway to achieve the climate objectives that we have committed ourselves to in the Paris Agreement. All countries should be climate-neutral once between 2050 and 2100, and we do not escape. In Kollsnes Industrial Park in the municipality of Øygarden, they have been providing and arranging for the CCS project for many years. In 2007, Prime Minister Stoltenberg opened the groundbreaking LNG facility at Kolsnes, and with action and industrial innovations, they are re-establishing future climate-neutral solutions. Thanks also to the impending Minister for Transport Liv Signe Navarsete, who, because of the decision in Hordaland County Municipality, introduced LNG as a condition for new ferry concessions. It was courageous and the beginning of a greener transport sector. Many things have happened since then, and the development means that the Eyeland and the Competence Environment have needed experience and knowledge to put in place the CCS project. The roof also goes to a tense Solberg government, which bets green and bets on climate. What can this initiative trigger and give rise to values from a national, regional and local perspective? Well, the CO 2 emission measurement in Norway is being met, and in this perspective, we see that Eyeland is the most suitable location in Norway for the large-scale management of carbon dioxide and hydrogen and a natural national hydrogen cluster, including the Ågotnes environment. Norway's most climate-friendly and short-distance solution is to co-locate the production and management of liquid hydrogen and carbon dioxide. It is necessary to facilitate the conversion of the maritime sector to volume distribution and security of supply. Turning gas into energy on the city with CO 2 capture will be the most energy-efficient and climate-friendly method. This can trigger and secure the creation of industries that can benefit from waste heat and sources of existing activity. It's a lot of optimism. Yes, this will be a lot of new jobs, a lot of green jobs, and it will ensure the existing ones. We are lucky to be able to transform the high skills and the technological understanding we have developed in the oil and energy sectors, and it also gives Norwegian industry the opportunity to export both technology and competence. Everyone has supported this project in the new Eyegarden municipality, including the Progress Party. CCS is not a moon landing that never happened. CCS is takeoff for Langskip.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4159	It is an explosive growth in digital abuse and exploitation of children. More and more children are accessing the Internet, and the number of offenders is increasing, including here in Norway. According to UNICEF, one third of Internet users are children. Sexual extortion and self-produced nude images of children, which are balanced, are part of everyday life online. One perpetrator may have many victims and store large amounts of assault material. A few weeks ago, a suicide video appeared in the middle of dance videos on the TikTok app. Children down to the age of ten have seen the video and had strong psychological reactions — yes, even with vomiting. The video also spread rapidly on Instagram and Snapchat. The Internet has also led to the possibility for pedophiles to exchange material between themselves, and there is growth in the form of live streaming, where they can order the rape of a child in other countries and have it delivered digitally at home in their own living room. According to Interpol, there are at least 1.8 million more pedophiles online now than just a year ago. This creates a huge market for criminal networks, which make huge sums. The Korona times have brought with them many battles. One of them is the solitude of quarantine and self-insulation. During quarantine, the use and availability of pornography has increased. On several occasions, videos with children have been discovered. This is a development that we cannot accept. Children and young people who experience the spread of nude pictures on the web, either self-produced or under coercion, are thus subjected to new abuses each time someone downloads and sees. It's very traumatic, and they get busy getting this removed. We must recognise that the sexual exploitation of children on the Internet and in social media is a global problem, and the Christian People's Party believes that Norway should play a leading role in international cooperation. In the international work Norway is doing against slavery and child labour, the Christian People's Party believes that sexual exploitation of children must be included in the priority areas according to the UN's sustainability objectives. The terms ‘child prostitution’ and ‘child sex tourism’ cover the truth. In his wickedness, there is only talk of sexual and criminal exploitation of children. The Christian People's Party has always worked to protect children and will continue to do so in every way in the future. The police reform is designed to develop a strategy against abuse, and through the aid rate, the funds are directed towards education of children, which can bring families out of poverty and thus prevent exploitation and trafficking in human beings. A coordinated, knowledge-based collection of these needs to be organised in order to combat the problem. The Christian People's Party will fight for a warm society, where children and young people will feel safe, and we want to go ahead with the government in the international work against this global exploitation of vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4176	The working party is pleased that the government will now be investing in full-scale CO 2 management. It is an ambitious technological project in which Norway can take the lead in the development of cost-effective capture, transport and storage of CO 2. But it is also an important climate project. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency believe that carbon capture is a prerequisite for reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. But when the community chooses to invest such significant amounts, we must ensure that it benefits as much as possible the entire society in terms of jobs, value creation and income to the welfare community. We therefore need clear framework conditions. Investments must not only benefit a few private companies. Who is it that owns the technology? For the time being, it is largely the government that takes the main investment and the risk. Then we also have to make sure that the values that are created benefit the community. This applies both to exports and to technology for the establishment of new capture installations, but also to the sale of storage facilities. Oil and gas have given us unique value creation and revenues. It therefore marvels at the fact that the government is not more concerned with ensuring that natural resources will also have the highest possible value in the future. We have considerable gas resources again. By connecting natural gas to carbon capture, we can decarbonize the gas and produce blue hydrogen. Until now, Norway has been a major supplier of raw materials. We should have the ambition to have the highest possible value creation in Norway, especially in view of the new energy carriers that will be in demand in the future. But the changes happen quickly, and we have to be in front of it. The working party wants natural gas to play an important role in a national hydrogen bet, both for export and for its own use. Norway is also a major maritime nation and is at the forefront of the development of low-emission ships within all types of vessels. On long-distance transport, which accounts for more than 80 pst. the emissions have not yet been found a good substitute for today's fuel. Hydrogen and ammonia are among the most relevant alternatives. Now Norway has the opportunity to secure future value-added by carbon capture, ensure that natural gas will continue to generate high hydrogen revenues, strengthen green shipping and secure new industries that we do not yet know, and take a quantum leap for lower global climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4197	In the new programme proposal from the Labour Party, the main issues are safe work for all, stronger welfare services and an effective and fair climate policy. Our dream is stronger communities where we make the differences smaller and possible, no matter what background you have, or each cage. Ordinary people have had less to travel with under the government of Solberg. It is not surprising that the Right fits the better-placed and prioritizes the richest over ordinary people. But what surprises me is that the Christian People's Party has given up the fight against increasing differences and will not see that when a give tax credits to those who already have the most, then the differences increase. In the first crisis package, the government wanted ordinary people who were outlawed to take the bill for two days' pay. This must have forgotten all those who have spoken from the Right Party and the Government Party. It was we, a collective opposition, who organized the income hedge. There's something fundamentally crazy about people who tend to have money, paying less in taxes than people who tend to work money. For every thousand bills the richest in Norway, they pay as little as 90 - 170 kroner in taxes, while a nurse taxes 250 kroner. It's not fair. Over ten years we have built a social democratic social model in Norway. We must defend it and build it on – not downgrade it. A controversial tax policy that gives tax relief to ordinary workers and increases in commuting deductions and trade union deductions is the response of the Labour Party. Regular people will have more to route with. And we want to give the pensioners a boost, so they also get purchasing power when the employees get it. The working party wants to create jobs and cut emissions. Natural and climate policies must become a framework for all policies. Norway has the best plans to build a new, climate-friendly industry, based on pure, Norwegian energy. Norway has the people, the economy and the skills needed to meet the climate crisis, but we need a new government, a powerful government, a government that makes it prudent and safe to create jobs and to be at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4212	High employment is the key prerequisite for the Norwegian welfare society. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is number one. Norway's position in the world is and has always been dependent on the sea. Our marine areas are five times larger than our land area. Most of Norway is the North Sea, and more than 80 pst. of Norway's sea areas are located north of the Arctic Circle. Rich natural resources, international cooperation, new trade routes through the north-east pass, a steep climate of change and many small coastal communities living off and off the sea characterise our northern regions. Tradition-rich industries such as fishing and shipping have laid the foundation for the development of the north and, together with new emerging industries in renewable energy, bio-prospecting and green industry, will define the future. Norway will need more renewable energy in the future. Local communities providing nature and resources shall be ensured a greater share of value creation. The Workers' Party will have a natural resource tax on wind power, which will benefit municipalities. We also believe that the community should own the natural resources and that Norwegian ownership of the sector should be ensured in future development. We have proposed an investigation into the wind power system. At the same time, it is important to listen to those who get closer to development. Your concerns must be taken seriously. For some, concerns can be based on a project in development. For others, it's about a project that's being stopped. Seeing the whole picture, using discretion and respecting geographical diversity are essential for the development of Norway as a whole. If North Norway is to develop further industrially and economically, sustainable energy development will be critical. The Workers' Party supports industrial development in the districts. Good projects with local anchoring, which create values and contribute to development, must be brought forward. The Workers' Party took part in the adoption of the necessary tightening-up of the Stortinget in June. The working party looks forward to the processing of the Land-based Land-based Land-Growth Notice of Changes in the Land-Growth Concession Treatment. At the same time, the Workers' Party wants to contribute to Varanger Kraft AS retaining its concession for raggovidda wind farm in the municipality of Berlevåg. It is a project with strong support, local anchoring, a high degree of local ownership and with high potential related to industrial development and the production of green hydrogen. The working party will come back to this matter in the context of the examination of the budget and contribute to the preparation of the necessary observations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4229	Getting the most out of work is one of the most important things we can do to avoid people falling outside of society. This has been a permanent programme post for the Christian People's Party since the start of the party in 1933. The source of inspiration is Hans Nilsen Hauge, who created a lot of works, and who also employed widows, single mothers and people with special needs, so that they could make a living, manage themselves and get a better life. We don't talk about work dust – we talk about manufacturing companies. The social and inclusive profile of Hans Nilsen Hauge has passed through the Hauge School of Management in Oslo, and after a while we'll have a lot of economists out there who want to impress society with this economic philosophy. Everyone should have the ability to contribute to society and to be part of social communities. It strengthens both self-esteem and communities. The right to work shall be independent of the background, the degree of disability, or the difficulty of life that makes it necessary to get or stand in work. In the Granavolden platform, the Christian People's Party has been given the opportunity to step up VTA – in other words, permanently organised jobs. This has led to a historically high level of about 11,000 places in 2020. The government is increasing its bet by 39 million. SEK and 300 VTA places in 2021. We're a long way from the goal. The focus, strength and will lie in the cooperation between politics and business. Attendees with scheduled work should receive a fixed addition and a work contract. This is necessary to provide good conditions and security for both employees and businesses. Good follow-up from school and into the workplace makes it easier to close down. The measure of work-preventing training has 7,500 people in training at any time. These are people with drug problems, mental disorders, social anxiety, and reading and writing difficulties. 40 pst. by the participants in this action return to work or education. Five years have passed since the government introduced this measure, and it benefits! The Christian People's Party has worked to bring about an equilateral reform that will be presented to the Stortinget in the spring of 2021. The reform is about creating a society that has room for everyone, where everyone is treated equally. If we are to be closed down with the right to work for all, it is decisive that we have a social view that facilitates diversity, inclusion and participation. The political goal of the Christian People's Party is that no one should have a life in outreach.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4250	This is the last presidential debate before the election, and it reminds me of my first throne debate after the government change in 2013, when the representative Trond Giske concluded that after eight years with the Labour Party-led government was Norwegian economy bottom-solid. But even before the government joined, Solberg announced a full brake and increased unemployment by Norwegian economists. It was the legacy after eight years of red-green government. It turned out that even with the bottom-solid economy, record oil prices, inheritance taxes, higher corporate taxes and higher property taxes, there were also longer hospital cows and 15 000 more poor children during the red-green years. So when the left-hand side controls, there's obviously no connection between higher taxes and more well-being. But now they want higher taxes, and then they make it more expensive to create the jobs people want to get back to, which can prolong the crisis. So the Solberg government didn't come to the table. In addition, there was an oil price crisis, where 50,000 jobs were lost in a short time, and a migration crisis with record arrivals of refugees and asylum seekers. And as Norway stood in February this year in a situation where unemployment was historically low and with a lack of skilled labour as the main obstacle to growth in the whole country, covid-19 came. However, a strong policy supporting Norwegian business and securing Norwegian workers means that Norway has made a good deal of progress. Despite the fact that we're in the middle of the pandemic, most people are back at work, even though many people are still experiencing a crisis. And the crisis is not over. Everything won't be like before, and we've definitely got a long time to get into a new normal. The green shift cannot be a red tax shift with more state and more governance, but must create economically and socially sustainable jobs across the country. The last working party tried to pick up businesses, they established a door factory in Årdal, which threatened jobs elsewhere in the country and was laid down with large deficits a little later. Politicians rarely have the prerequisites to pick winners in a market, but losers are often good at picking politicians who will give them money. This is what the Workers' Party calls active, guiding industrial policy. So if a job or industry is not mentioned in the business strategy of the left-hand side, it is most likely that it is the ones who have to pay for it. In the last seven years, the Right has implemented reforms — not to change Norway, but because Norway has changed. We cannot reverse ourselves to the future, but we can risk the future by reversing absolutely necessary changes. We have to create more and include more, not more taxes and rule more. I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome the Left as a new yes-party in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4265	Today complex, delicate natural systems are in serious trouble. We have eight times doubled our resource use from nature, and Norway is at the top of the world in use and waste. Over 90 pst. of metals and minerals we take from nature, is used only once, and there will be more plastic in the sea than edible fish by 2050 if the plastic problem continues. This is not just a matter of nature protection. This is actually the basic economy. Our well-being is based on the exploitation of nature's resources, and if we're to be well-being for the next 30-100 years, our nature must be able to generate the profits we need. Then, together with the European Union, we must succeed in the transition to a circular economy. We have to have a market to use materials several times. Products have to be designed to be recycled, recovered and repaired, and we have to use digitisation to control the raw materials we use. We just have to make more of less. For us who are liberal conservatives, this is really a fairly fundamental question, because it's about responsible, sensible resource use, moderation, moderation and generational responsibility. It is about Norway, which is a country rich in natural resources, also having to value its natural resources in crowns and ears. But unlike many from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Green Party, we will not succeed if we do not use one thing: the market and the market mechanisms. For yes, the transition requires a smart and efficient state that makes right demands, uses its purchasing power and creates good framework conditions, but it also requires a state and not least politicians who know its limitations and who know that public subsidies and political cleverness and enthusiasm alone will never be enough to build a country, and at least it will not be enough to create profitable circular business models. When SV, the Green Party and the Workers' Party, with the Centre Party on the move, will have strong tax increases for small and medium-sized enterprises in the midst of a crisis, it is really impossible for the same companies to invest in the technology, production equipment and skills they need to create circular value chains. When the left-hand side cast doubt on the EEA Agreement, they also cast doubt on all the companies that depend on market access in Europe, if they will even start to think circularly. It does not help that the Workers' Party, SV and the Environmental Party The Greens demand action in climate change when their plan is to take the money and power from all those who are actually going to act. Norway is now closer to achieving the 2020 climate targets than ever before. Unfortunately, while emissions rise in my home town, Oslo, they have now fallen in Norway for four consecutive years. But if we're also going to be able to turn down the way we use resources today, we need system changes and more powerful instruments, and then we actually need companies that go in plus and not in minus.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4280	That small differences, security and trust contribute to more value creation is not something the Workers' Party has invented. The OECD has also analysed the link between inequality and economic growth, and their conclusion is that increasing inequality contributes to lower economic growth. We know that lower economic growth leads to less distribution. So we can create more to share by contributing to less political differences, more inclusion, trust and community. For seven years we have had increased tax relief, while new taxes and the removal of welfare schemes have affected those who have at least to travel with. The right-wing government is pursuing a policy that weakens trust and security and increases differences between people. A new SSB report shows that differences in Norway have increased dramatically. This is not due to covid-19. Covid-19 only reinforces the challenges further. The policy of the right is based on an ideology in which the rich are rewarded and the welfare services are restricted or privatised. Leader pay increases dramatically, while pensioners and ordinary workers lose their purchasing power and safety. We don't want it like this – a layman's society with, for example. liberalisation of the taxi industry, which gives drivers zero opportunities to live on their wages, or railway cleaners, who lose earned pension rights, and weakens their pay and working conditions. As if that's not enough, last year there were 36,000 new workers. There's over half of a year's coal in Norway. Seven out of ten of the Joint Organisation of Disabilities want a job adapted to them. They need security and a decent life. We need more community and more trust. Now this government has put us decades back. Because it's not just the value creation that is weakened by increasing differences. Human dignity, equality and quality of life are also weakened. People have to be listened to and don't have to be stuck in their hands. We need a new course for Norway. We need a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-05.ana.ud140e4292	Then the clock has passed 22, and the Stortinget is finished with the first day of the throne debate. Tomorrow, the meeting will begin at 9 p.m. 10, with Prime Minister Erna Solberg as the first speaker. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
