ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e25	From the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Per Espen Stoknes, is invited to meet on 29 and 30 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e42	Per Espen Stoknes is present and will take the seat. The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e49	On behalf of the big business representatives Geir Pollestad and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative on the establishment of the emergency storage of food grain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e54	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e59	On behalf of Mona Fagerås, Lars Haltbrecken, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, I will put forward proposals to ensure that the best interests of the child in expulsion cases are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e64	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e80	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Iselin Nybø, Bent Höie and Abid Q. Raja will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e89	My question goes to the Minister of Health. We are now a few months inside the meeting with the Corona, it is seven weeks since the most intrusive measures Norway has seen since the war were launched. I think there is a reason here in the Chamber, when we meet now, to praise everyone in Norway who has set up a great deal of work, commend all those who work in health and care, and who protect and treat in these demanding times. And there is reason to recognise that, in politics, we have agreed on measures to address the very wide impact on society and the economy as a result – almost half a million without work and major economic and social consequences. That is why we need to have a debate on the way forward, including in this Chamber. Yesterday, we heard State Council Höie say that criticism of how we were prepared to meet the pandemic was to understand as an after-school clock. He also said that questions about how we meet this pandemic, the choices we make, have to wait for the investigation commission to be reduced. I disagree with both of these claims. Yes, there is a review commission. It's going to work for a year, but it can't close the debate on the choices we're making now. The government is making choices based on public health input, that's wise, but we also know that the public health authorities have come up with advice that the government has not followed. And the government has made its own choices. Of course, we need to have a debate, including a political debate. When it comes to after-clocking, I think it's actually a good idea to learn from how you were prepared, because we're going to meet pandemics again. This was an alert crisis. The 2013 announcement summarising the swine flu said that such a pandemic could be encountered in the next ten years. We were poorly prepared when the crisis struck – with a lack of infectious equipment, lack of medicines, insufficient intensive capacity – and the choice of the down-strategy was partly based on the lack of preparedness. The question to the Council of State – my first question – is: Does the Council of State agree that we were too poorly prepared to meet this crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e104	I think it is too early to draw that conclusion, and that is precisely why we have set up a commission of inquiry that should be able to give us better answers to that question, because I fully agree with the representative Gahr Støre that we should have this debate. However, I would like to say that when you draw conclusions before you have received the evaluation, as the Labour Party obviously wants to do, I think there will be conclusions drawn on a too thin basis. So it's absolutely right that I describe some of what was the Workers' Party's criticism yesterday at the NRK, as an afterthought, because I perceive that the Workers' Party yesterday thought that we could have another strategy that was just about us having an infection rate of over 1 if we had a different preparedness for intensive care. I think that is wrong, simply because it would have meant that very many people in this country, among other things. those at risk either had to isolate themselves in total or have been exposed to a significant risk of infection, and many of them had not enjoyed the additional intensification sites — they had become seriously ill and dead without being able to use those sites. In addition, healthcare workers with such a strategy would also be exposed to infection, so that that capacity could quickly become a capacity on paper and not a real capacity. Then I experienced in Political Quarter today that the Workers' Party did not mean what they said yesterday – and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e111	The choices made in March were, of course, justified by the fact that because of the intensive capacity — infectious diseases equipment, staffing in the intensive care units in hospitals — it was as it was, intervention was needed to protect health professionals and sick people. That's clearly it had a consequence. In 2013, I presented a big message summarising the experience of swine flu, highlighting the importance of medical and technical equipment, capacity and intensive capacity. It is relevant to discuss this today and not to wait one year for a commission of inquiry, because the measures we are taking today also affect how we meet a pandemic that may come tomorrow. Today, we still hear from Norwegian municipalities – now at the latest from Arendal – that they have a lack of infection protection equipment. Half of those who have lost their lives in the coronary epidemic are at home. This is happening in the municipalities, and that deficiency has not yet been corrected. So I want to warn the government against saying that we should wait for the Commission to draw those conclusions, and I expect that this is still a work where you draw lessons from how weakly we were prepared when the crisis hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e120	I just have to repeat: I fully agree with the representative Gahr Støre that we should have this discussion, and of course we should not wait a year to take it. However, I would like to say that this is not necessarily the right time to draw the bastant conclusions when we are going to have an evaluation – not least because we are now actually in the middle of the crisis. Many of them we're going to evaluate, including myself, are actually now most concerned with dealing with the crisis. It is important that one does not now create the impression that we are over the crisis, and that we can now spend a lot of time evaluating the work that was done before, among us who are now dealing with this situation. The most important thing we do now is actually to deal with the situation. Once again, I disagree with an assessment that says that if we had had a significantly higher intensive capacity, we could not have had a strategy that is about shutting down the spread of infection. It would have had quite a big impact on large groups in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e127	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e132	I don't criticize that we've shut down the infection. It was necessary in the situation we were in. But State Council Höie says we're in the middle of the crisis. I agree it's not over. He said before Easter that we have control of the infection, and that we are now going down from the mountain we have climbed. In this situation, we must also recognise the enormous consequences this crisis has for our society: over 400,000 unemployed, companies fighting for survival, children and young people who pay a high price, and more and more who are struggling to pay their bills. I think it is fair that we have a debate on that exit strategy and where we are going. The Institute of Public Health says that with the strategy we have now chosen, pending a vaccine that can come in about one to a year and a half, we need the debate on how we can be controlled to open up in line with the results we get. I would like to invite the Council of State to be open to that debate – that it is also happening in Stortinget, not just at press conferences every afternoon, where the government actually has an information monopoly in the form of access to information from the public health authorities. Every country around us has that debate, and we also have to have it: what is the right plan further out of this crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e141	What's right is that we stick to a strategy to have the infection rate below 1, that we have control of the spread of infection, and that, if we succeed, and that looks like we're doing, we can gradually reopen society. We will then give priority to opening up what is most important: what concerns children and young people, and what concerns our jobs. Then we have to open up gradually and controlled, and that means that it has to go about 14 days from each time we make a change, until we make the next change – because we have to see the effect of the changes we're making. We combine it with an implementation of a comprehensive test, tracking and isolation of those who are infected, and once we have succeeded, we can probably open up even more. This means that the most interventional measures can be facilitated, but the general measures – such as washing hands, as good hygiene rules – must be able to last a long time. We're completely open about this strategy, and we're completely open to discussing it. I would like to answer all the questions relating to this strategy, and I also regularly meet in the Grand Prix to explain the work we are doing. I'll meet you there later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e148	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e153	We need this debate. We also need it to see our country together. We have a situation now with an infection concentration in the capital, it's the most serious. At least the theory about the strategy we've chosen is that when we get control of the infection, we put in increased testing, increased tracking, and we take action where it's infected. I think we also need a debate on what Norway looks like elsewhere than here in Oslo. We have regions, cities and municipalities that have almost zero infections. I think it's imperative to get kids back to school, not just the youngest, and get normal social functions going – of course controlled. But I think it's incredibly important for the opening up of the measures that it's still happening with an open debate, and I would encourage the Council of State not to say that it's post-clearance when you draw conclusions of what's happened before, and not look at it as an undermining of the government when you're also asking critical questions about the choices you're making. We need that in democracy, and we need that for the opening up of the measures we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e159	I fully agree, we need to have a discussion, we need a debate, and we need criticism. But criticism must also be able to get back to it, because there will be no debate if you do not actually respond to quite serious attacks, like what happened yesterday. That's what I chose to answer, it's also part of an open debate. We've chosen all the way to be open on these considerations, and open on what's always the uncertainty of such a situation, because there's always uncertainty. And when we make decisions in this situation, we have to make the decisions as much as possible on the basis of knowledge that is at the time we make the decision. That means that it can turn out afterwards that we get knowledge that says that e.g. some of the intervention measures we introduced on 12 March were strictly unnecessary. There is useful knowledge for the next time, but it cannot be used as a criticism that actions were carried out at the time they were carried out, because we had to make a decision on the basis of knowledge we had then, and not on a basis of knowledge that we might have had a month later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e166	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e171	Asking a government about the way forward after the country has been shut down for seven weeks is not a serious attack. It is the right and duty of the Storing. We have to base that on the way forward. All countries are now discussing how to establish a lack of normality in a situation in which society will be infected for up to a year and a half in the future. The disease resulting from the measures is not weighed and measured. All those who were seriously ill and chronically ill before the corona, they are still there. That is why my question is to the Minister of Health: the health authorities have said that we need to know more about what measures cannot be properly justified on the basis of infectious diseases, but which do much damage to our society. Is it possible for the Council of State to determine whether there are now infectious measures that do more harm than good?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e176	This is an incredibly important discussion, and I just have to repeat: I have nothing against discussion, but the representative must also bear that when you invite to discussion, you get answers back. Yesterday's attack was not about the road ahead, it was about what had been done on 12 March. But when you're going to discuss the way forward, you definitely have to have an open and good discussion about it, too, and we do. I really feel that there is broad support for both the strategy and the government plan. I also do not understand that someone has delivered an alternative strategy that is well-founded. But if you come up with that, I'd like to take part in a discussion about it. All the measures we are introducing for the protection of infection also have negative consequences. It's just the considerations we make every time we discuss which actions we should facilitate. That is why we have said that we give priority to children and young people and jobs first, because these are the measures that have the most negative impact on our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e183	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e188	This crisis has had different phases. In the first phase, very interventional measures were expected. Now the government itself says that we should facilitate the measures. Tracking activities have been launched to relieve the more intrusive actions of more targeted actions. I think it's perfectly legitimate to get up to a discussion about the way forward, and I think it's good that the council rejected the rhetorical entrance he had, in the answer to the first question. What we're concerned about is how the government's plan is for the time we're facing. We believe it is important to open up local adaptations. We also believe it is important to start looking at the rehabilitation of patients who have received tough coronary therapies as a result of their becoming intensive patients. And we wonder how high the threshold will be to shut down in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e195	Both of these issues are very important, and I think that as we gradually open up, we need to have a discussion about how much we should open up to local adaptations. When we were going to take the first step in schools and kindergartens, I think it was wise that we did it together. There was great uncertainty among teachers, children and parents. If we had had very different solutions from school to school in our country, I think we would have reinforced that uncertainty, and many would have been unsure if it was right to send their children back. Now, when we're all getting a little bit more safe through experience, it might be that we're also going to have a little bit more local variation. That's some of what we're going to get back to. But we also need to listen to what the Education Association said yesterday, namely that they realized that there is a strength for teachers, for those who work in school, that it is done nationally – that it also creates security among them. So those objections, the contradictions, we have with respect to great local variation, we also have to include ourselves in that discussion. I can see that the Workers' Party is also opening up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e202	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e207	Another thing that is important in the continuation is the intensive capacity. According to European comparisons, Norway is vulnerable with its intensive capacity. We're a little bit lower than countries we're comparing to. Much of this depends on the capacity of competent personnel. The last time Councillor Höie was in Stortinget, he assigned a capacity of up to 1,400 intensities. It is important to work on expanding this in parallel with further opening, and to facilitate these local measures and assessments, which I now perceive as opening up and agreeing with the Workers' Party. My question to the Council of State is: How much emergency solutions do you see that you should rely on, and what is the plan for increased intensive capacity in the coming year? That's pretty important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e216	I fully agree with that, and that is why a mission was also given to the health regions to plan to prepare an intensive capacity of up to 1,200 places, which is also the top of the scenario of the Public Health Institute, which we used for that planning. They have provided it, and it shows that for a short period of time, one to three weeks, they can have such an overall capacity in Norway. It will be an intensive capacity that does not correspond to what we in Norway today expect from quality and content in an intensive site. This will be, as the representative is in, an emergency, an emergency solution. My attitude to it is that it is more important and correct to plan for an emergency than to end up in an emergency without a plan. It is also the case that the strength of the Norwegian healthcare system has emerged through this work, because we have the opportunity to greatly scale up the intensive capacity in Norway in a relatively short time due to the overall capacity of the healthcare system. And so when we get out of this, we think we should have a higher intensive capacity on a regular basis than we've had in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e223	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e229	We are in the process of gradually and carefully opening up again, and that's good. But many thousands of young people are now in line both for driving hours and for getting up at the State Road Service. Many driving schools are in the process of having major financial problems and are at risk of bankruptcy. It's a big challenge for them. Then we've seen that the Ministry of Transport is positive in finding solutions, but that it's related to the health authorities and the Health Directorate in terms of clarifying what you can, etc. – the supervisor, etc. Can the Council of State say something about what he sees in perspective — if you can quickly get this in place, so that all the young people who are now waiting for a driver's license can actually get up and get their driver's license?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e236	This is one of many important businesses that are still closed and which, of course, have a negative impact on students and also create uncertainties about important jobs. It is also part of the measures that are now being assessed towards the next wave of changes. Then we have to make a balance and a priority of what measures we're going to take next time, and who might be included in the next round. We're not done with that work yet, but this is, of course, on my list of things we're now considering opening up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e241	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e246	We have received some concerns from some of the municipalities that operate in the SIO projects, or state-funded care for the elderly, which are often defined as such. Among other municipalities, Stjørdal has made contact and is a little worried about the freezing of funding that is part of the SIO project. It's a huge challenge for the municipality. Of course, you haven't thought about getting a pandemic, which you're in the middle of now, and that means you have to have an increased preparedness. One of the purposes of the SIO project is to get money based on the needs of patients and the services they provide, but now you also have to have a readiness on top. It creates great concerns for these municipalities. I would like to challenge the Council of State if he can say whether or not they will be able to continue with the project and be well equipped for it, but whether or not action is also being taken to meet the economic challenge that these municipalities are currently facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e253	The short answer to that is yes. The Health Directorate was contacted by some of the municipalities who were concerned about the extra burden involved in this experiment in such a situation, and also the complexity of some of the reporting procedures. Then there was a meeting that resulted in one more having an idea of stopping the experiment completely for a period of time. I did not think that was a very good idea, but that it should also be worked to find good adaptations. In this connection, I had some direct contact with some of the rapporteurs in those municipalities. The result was that one had a new meeting, where one worked and agreed on some common adjustments to the scheme. Then, on the basis of that, the Health Directorate will come back to me with some recommendations based on the job they do with the municipalities. My impression, after regular contact with the rapporteurs concerned, is that they thus experience the dialogue with the Directorate as well. I fully agree with what the representative points out, that it is important to take care of this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e260	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e265	Norway had a terrible preparedness when the pandemic came, despite the fact that the government knew that pandemic was the most likely crisis that could affect us. The government’s health policy is expressed by the slogan ‘patient’s health care’, which was delineated in the meeting with infectious disease. The free treatment option was the first government itself to opt out. That is understandable, because the patient’s healthcare is adapted to the privatisation and to the ‘just-in-time’ thinking – it’s the opposite of what one needs to ensure health care. Our health system should provide security, and then we must give priority to public health, intensive capacity and bed places. We need to ensure recruitment through fixed health professionals settings, and we need to ensure that national production and stockpiles of infectious disease protection equipment and essential medicinal products and test equipment are produced. Will the Council of State take self-criticism on behalf of the Government for this emergency failure?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e270	I feel that the representative draws some conclusions that I do not think this is a basis for. We'll have that discussion. There will certainly be points also after this pandemic that means that this could have been better prepared, we could have done differently. It will be guaranteed. After the previous pandemic, I took over an evaluation that had 18 improvement points, which I carried out and followed up. There will be improvements also after this pandemic. I totally disagree with a description that we did not have a readiness in this area. Only in 2019 did we introduce a national contingency plan against the spread of serious infectious diseases, we revised the infectious diseases law for, among others. ensuring the role-sharing in a situation like the one we are currently in, and we established the preparedness committee for biological events, which has been crucial for the coordinated efforts in this area. I could have substantially extended this list of things that had been done in preparation for this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e277	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e282	No self-criticism, that is – it is quite strange. We know that the coronary apnea has affected older people very hard. The majority of deaths occur in hospitals in the municipalities, and many people now ask questions about how older people in the municipalities are taken care of during the pandemic. For example, there is a high lack of infectious disease protection equipment, varying quality of infection protection work, varying quality of relief treatment and insecurity of access to intensive care for the elderly. There is also great concern about the practice of a strict ban on visits, which is particularly severe for all elderly people in hospitals. We know that a cage there for two years on average, and a defeat-down strategy could lead to action up to two years, until we get a vaccine. The question is whether the Minister of Health will now move the focus to the municipal health service. What is his plan to provide vulnerable elderly people under the pandemic with both the security of infectious, defensive treatment and, not least, the possibility of a worthwhile life?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e287	First, I have to say that when the representative claims there is no self-criticism in what I am saying, I stressed all the way that there are going to be points that say that we could have done things differently. I don't know any other way to say it than that. I think that's what we all have to admit. We've had a lot of attention on the elderly and vulnerable all the way in this situation. Many of the measures, and not least the choice of strategy we have taken, are just about protecting them. That is one of the reasons why I think it was so important to choose a strategy that is about reducing the spread of infection. It was just to protect the elderly and the vulnerable in our society. We see that in countries that have not succeeded, it is those that have been hit first and foremost. Some of the measures put in place include: in nursing homes and in order to protect them, which also have many negative sides. That's why I've commissioned the Health Directorate to look at how we can adjust these recommendations, so that we can still keep the infection in check, but at the same time get the possibility of more social contact, not least with relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e297	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e302	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. At this time, large family parks in Norway are usually getting ready for the big summer season. In the summer the parks are filled with happy children, families ready for fine experiences and not least by creating memories. Family parks are too many, perhaps, peaks in the summer, and perhaps especially in the summer holidays. For many communities parks are important economic drivers. They employ many young people in summer jobs, attract tourists to the other local shops and travel. Several major actors have now joined forces and work hard to find ways to reduce the risk of infection. Together with the Public Health Institute, work is being done to identify which parts can be carried out properly and what activities may have to be carried out by other means or, where appropriate, cancelled. Everyone out there is now waiting for a quick clarification to get started. My question is therefore whether the Council of State can be expected to provide some guidance on how family parks might be able to implement the summer season.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e313	Thank you for the question. I am also very happy in the summer parks. I have three children, and it is clear that we very much want to visit many of the summer parks around the country. In this way, I share the concerns of the representative who asks the question. We have to have a slightly larger perspective on this. On 12 March the Government introduced the most stringent measures in peacetime. Life and health have been at the forefront, and it has been important to get control of the pandemic. Now the health authorities and we in the government have communicated that we have now succeeded in getting control of the pandemic. The important thing now is that we are able to maintain this control. We will continue to do that — when the Council of State Höie now replied to previous questions that we should gradually reopen Norway. When we reopen gradually, we have to take into account just the protection of infection. We're going to do that together, over time and, like councillor Höie was in, every other week. The most important things have been kindergarten, kindergarten, workplaces — caring for it. Of course, I'm concerned about the breadth of cultural life, volunteering and sport. Now, based on the leadership that the health authorities have given us, we have given some instructions on how this can happen. The first ban was issued in April, then we extended this ban on major events until 15 June, and then, based on the strong professional recommendations we received from the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute, we have extended the ban on large events that collect more than 500, until 1 September. The decision regarding events below 500 is expected to be taken now on Thursday – without my guarantee, but that is what is planned. Health authorities put great integrity into giving us the best professional assessments in this regard. They have said that they will provide up-to-date professional assessments of this on Thursday. We in the government then aim to address those questions, and including the amusement parks could also be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e324	To do this a little further for the minister: I am contacted by a lot of families with children who want to plan the holiday. They are invited to plan their holiday in Norway, and they wish to clarify this. They want to go to Bø Sommarland, Royal Park, Tushnuts, Hunderfossen, the Atlantic Park and x numbers elsewhere. What's a little strange is that the aquarium in Bergen has managed to open again. The zoo is an excellent example of a park that manages to stay open even under restrictions. Could not the Minister be inspired by those who are able to keep open, for example. The animal park in Kristiansand? When does he think he can give families predictability so that they can plan their summer vacation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e329	I'm going to assure both the president and the asker that I'm getting engaged in this. I very much want all the families in Norway to have an amazing summer holiday, and to get good experiences for both adults and young people, both now and of course this summer. Then we have to do everything we do, in terms of infectious diseases. Now we have e.g. a very large event coming, May 17th. Around the country, everyone is going to celebrate the Constitution, peace, that we have been free from occupation for 75 years now. All of this has to happen in terms of infectious diseases, because we can't risk hundreds, if not thousands, on the other side of this. The fact that, for example, The aquarium in Bergen has been able to open up, I'm assuming is within the terms of the infection, that they're practicing the five-two-one rule for the time being, and that they're doing it in groups of five. I think the industry is moving ahead and taking responsibility. The hairdressers did that by putting a standard in place. My call for very many people will be to create different business methods to open up, but it must be done in the current context of infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e338	There will be follow-up questions – first Silje Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e343	It's a little bit difficult to get answers here, so I'll do another question. We have the travelling amusement parks that reach us most people, you could say, both in town and country. It's tifoli and circus. I have had some dialogue with them, because they are particularly concerned about the situation they are now facing. It was now time for the Tyroleans and circuses to meet the families, to be on markets, festivals, etc. They are now deeply concerned about the crisis in which they are, as they benefit to little or no extent from today's crisis packages. I wonder, will the Council of State take any initiative to help the tivoli and circus industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e350	Both the Council of State and the Government will take very many initiatives to help the breadth of the different industries. That's why we've set up the various economic packages that are going to hit the brink of business and not least cultural life. It's an incredibly difficult situation for cultural life to be in. In my sector, the cultural sector, is about 82 pst. freelancers and self-employed persons. When their income is ripped away overnight, and when healthy Norwegian businesses have gone from full operation to zero operations overnight, it is clear that this is painfully economical. Therefore, both the Storting and the Government have set up different packages, on the one hand, a cash support scheme under which taxable employers come under, on the other hand, there are rules for this. Then we've created a ticket waiver scheme under the Ministry of Culture, which compensates for this. We are now working on making the necessary adjustments. In the case of circuses and tivioli -- yeah, it's fun, and we also need to have fun, but all of these funny things are going to happen in terms of infection protection. Updated numbers for events below 500 are intended to be included on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e359	Morten Ørsal Johansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e364	I note that the Minister of Culture is a little hesitant in this matter, and I would therefore like to address my follow-up question to the Minister of Industry, who, unlike the Minister of Culture, is more concerned with making money than using them. The Korona crisis is hitting travel life hard, and it is important to look at how you can help this industry through it without excessive losses. In the interior we have Hunderfossen Family Park, which is an important asset in the area. Nearby are Barnas Gård Hundersfossen, Norsk Vegmuseum, Hundersfossen Hotel & Resort and Hundersfossen Camping, all of which will be hit harder than necessary if Hundersfossen is kept closed during the summer. My question to the Minister of Industry is as follows: If one finds that the family parks can properly care for the protection of infection, which they now operate and work with, when will the government be able to give a clear signal that the Hundred Fox can open up for the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e373	I understand that the representative – and not least these amusement parks themselves – wants an answer, and that they prefer an answer that they can open as quickly as possible. We have to take this in order. We have, as the Minister of Health also said, been given control of the infection. We're happy about that, and that means we can open our society up a little bit after a while. We have started with what has been most important – with kindergarten, with school. Little by little, our business is also going on, and they're in the process of evaluating when we can change this regulation that per day keeps them closed, and open up. It has to happen after advice from the health authorities, and I can't now stand and say when it will happen. But I can say that these are important jobs, and not just for one company. These are important jobs for those who work there, but also for young people who have their summer jobs there, and for other enterprises in the local area, who get more activity as a result of it. We are now in front of the summer, so I have a lot of understanding that they want an answer to this quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e381	Morten Ørsal Johansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e386	I'm recording that the council is busy that they're going to open, but now we're starting to get into the summer season; we're in May pretty soon, and this is the season on which these family parks are going to make money. One must be able to give an indication – will they open in May, June, July or August? If they open in August, I imagine it might be a little late to earn what they might have lost until now. So can we get a clue whether it's early summer or late harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e391	There's a very big difference between what you want and what you can promise, and what we want, both of them, I'm sure is quite clear. But this must happen in order, and the government must take the decision after the advice we get from the health authorities. It will not be clear until it is clear, and it will become clear when the government has taken the decision. But it's important that we have control of the infection all the time, because that way we can also open up more and more, and that's what's going on. They are among those who are now closed, who want to open again, and who we have to work for should be able to open again. First of all, we're still in control of the infection, and then it's about getting us in place good ways for them to open up, so that both those who work there, and those who are going to visit these parks, are sure that the infection prevention measures are being enforced. So it's also about the travel life and society we're going to have this summer, which I think very many hopes are going to be a nice summer, where we can use the travel life we have in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e396	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e401	Another industry, which represents as much entertainment in our lives as the family parks do, but which is also bloody serious, is football. After all, we all want our kids to be allowed to resume their leisure activities soon and play football on the loop, so they're going to get it started again. But this spring's most beautiful adventure also stands for the door, and that's the series start in football. We could all of us now need the joy and excitement that the football via the screen can give us in these times when we're sitting at home. The unique Norwegian football model also allows the elite football to finance the football. Now the Norwegian Football Federation has put forward a proposal for a regime for how they can start up again and play games within today’s rules on infectious diseases. Will the council now blow the whistle and let the football start up again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e408	The councils are not going to blow in any flute immediately. I also think it is important that the Workers' Party continues to be concerned that we have control of the infection. Each sector may want to open up, and if you open this up uncontrollably, we no longer have control of the infection. So the sectors that we're going to open up, we're going to take into account just the protection of infection. It's not that the council can just get out of the closet, blow the whistle and we're on. We base our decisions on the professional assessments we get from the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute. I've been in dialogue with sports, it's been my department, and it's also been the government. They are also in dialogue with health authorities. This is what we're working on. Of course, everyone who has their favorite team wants to watch them play. But we also want to go back to our working life, to our lives. The children want to meet their grandparents. All of this shall be done, not in a vacuum, but in a community. That's why we have to do it gradually, controlled and considered the infection. The football is going to start again, but it won't until the health authorities give up the thumb for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e415	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e420	I agree with all that the Council of State says about the way we're going to reopen society, in a safe and sound way. But I wonder if the Council of State has actually read the recordings from the Norwegian Football Federation and listened to the football in the meetings he's had. For the Norwegian Football Federation, a detailed plan has been put in place to re-launch the top football within today’s rules on infectious diseases. Norwegian top football has great medical and professional resources, and they've made a plan for this. So it's possible to do that within what's today's infectious disease code, and the Public Health Institute says that this has to be a political assessment. Why won't the Council of State engage in dialogue with football and allow them to start up again when they have made rules that protect today's infectious disease regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e425	Everyone can act just as they want to do, within today's rules on infectious diseases. They don't need the state council's permission to do that. Now, for example: the training in child sport. I have children myself who are in the sports movement, fortunately, and they're doing the exercises. She's the only one playing handball. They don't throw handball at each other, but they practice, and they do that several times a week. Just like that, the football can also start as long as they stay in line with the rules for the protection of infection that apply. When are we going to make adjustments? We're going to do that at some point. I know that football and top sport have some better conditions to do this, because they have their own test regimens, they have their own teams, and not least sportsmen are very good at quarantine. They like it before big competitions. So of course, they have some special advantage in getting this done. However, it is not the case that the Council of State decides on the nature of these rules for the protection of infection. We decide that after we get numbers from the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute, and based on that, we make adjustments. The rollings – as Höie said – will happen every 14 days, and we will also get to the football.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e432	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e437	There is no doubt that cultural life is hard hit by the Corona situation, and even though society is gradually reopened, gathering bigger audiences is probably not going to happen in quite a long time. It was therefore gratifying that the Minister of Culture could clarify the situation of the festivals this summer. So it's like most of us now probably know a place after both festivals and concerts. Therefore, it will be a great advantage for cultural life to receive support via the cash support to enterprises, i.e. model 1, closed businesses as a result of government orders. And now that the authorities have banned cultural events such as festivals and concerts in the summer, will this mean that all companies and businesses in the industries concerned will be defined as susceptible to support within Model 1 in the cash support for firms in difficulty, so that we have concerts and festivals to come back to after this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e445	I thank you for the question. Of course, we have a great desire and work to ensure that the vast majority of festivals and organizers – I hope absolutely all of them – are able to overcome the corona epidemic we are hit by. Businesses are badly hit financially, and our goal is to make the most of it. So we know that the corona situation is going to make no one want to be unaffected by this situation. When e.g. institutions have taken the big, difficult steps to permit their employees, it is a demanding phase and situation to be in – not just because it is economically difficult, but also because they have emotional ties with their employees. Now we've made some arrangements. One is called the cash support scheme. It's also the individual institutions in the cultural field that come under – I haven't got the full overview yet. The applications are rolling and still going. I saw that a museum has also searched. So more will come under that arrangement. Others will come under the scheme that we administer through the Ministry of Culture, and we are working on making some necessary adjustments. But the goal is to take care of the sector, so that it gets across the corona and we have festivals to go back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e454	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e459	It is very important to clarify if we are to have festivals – concert organisers – to come back to over the summer. The Council of State says in the evening post today that the public cultural institutions should be able to acquire more art and culture for the support they receive. The theater, the museum and the orchestra are closed and have permitted their employees, precisely on the basis of the signals that Raja has given earlier, and there are some mixed signals. Many of these institutions rely on ticket revenue to operate. SV and many in the industry have suggested that public cultural activities should be compensated for loss of own resources, and then they should be asked not to send their employees to Nav but rather to create the art and culture that can actually be created in a crisis situation. Is it such a thing to understand that the Council of State has now turned around, in line with the SV and others have called for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e468	We're practicing something called arm length distance. Before the Corona situation, there was a major debate in society through another representative that I should go into and stop the Council of Culture's allocations to artists who had the means to create the art of body fluids, for example. Then I was very clear that I did not go in and decide. I'm not going to go in there and decide what kind of art is supportive. Similarly, we have the board and management of the different institutions, and I don't go into the Opera and decide how to set up their business, other than that we steer through signals and through letters of allocation. We'll do it through the letters of assignment, and we'll do it through the appropriations. When some institutions — not all, some orchestras have not permitted, and not all have permitted — choose to permit, it is an extremely difficult decision they make. Then they will meet with support from us. But I see today that there are a lot of people who are going to repeat, bring them back. I have sent a clear order, including: through the evening post and in the NRK today, and I expect a lot of culture to be provided for the means that the state has made available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e473	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e478	President, the representative of Ørsal Johansen had a note about money, but the importance of culture cannot be measured in money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e483	The Council of State has not really received the floor from the President. Now the Trygve Battle Violence Vedum gets the floor on the next main question – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e488	In March we set a gloomy record in Norway: unemployment has never increased more than it did in March. The last unemployment figures show an unemployment rate of 10.7 p.m. for the full unemployed, but when you calculate those who are partially unemployed and looking for work, the unemployment rate is 15.3 p.m. – a very high number. We also see that when we compare with our neighbouring countries, with Finland, with Sweden, with Denmark, we are much higher. 15.3 p.m. Is a somewhat incomprehensible number, but when you take it over to individual sheds, it is between 400,000 and 500,000 people who are looking for jobs every day – a very demanding situation. My question is going to go to the Minister of Industry, because if we're going to get people out of the job queue, on the basis of leave and on the job, there's jobs we need. The Centre Party shall have, inter alia: be very concerned about all the small businesses. We have over 100,000 small enterprises in Norway with 1 to 4 employees, and they came very poorly out of the cash support scheme, because the proportion was too high. In the first round, the Centre Party and Red saw it, yesterday I saw that the government began to see it. I am pleased that you cut the proportion from NOK 10 000 to NOK 5 000. But actually you should cut it to zero. The government did so for hairdressers and other establishments that were closed down – they got cut to zero – but for example. for the taxi industry in this city there is a dramatic situation similar to that for the hairdressing industry, which is now on its way up again and is beginning to be valued. I want to give the government a chance: at least you've got a little bit of what the Center Party thought from the first second – that's a good thing. But I hope that you can approach even a little bit more and see the small businesses, and that the left, who's previously talked about small businesses, can also agree with the centre party in this case, that we set the prop to zero. Because we need the over 100,000 businesses if we're to get the leave down and get people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e497	Let me start by saying that I fully share the representative's concerns about business, about our workplaces and about the individuals involved, whether it's the infection itself that means that the companies have had to shut down, or it's the infection protection measures we've put in place, which means that they have either had to shut down or go into such degraded operations that they have had to permit. Fortunately, we now see that we have got control of the infection. It did a lot for business -- and I think it did a lot for our whole community -- that we got the kids back in kindergarten and school. It makes working life easier for kids to go to school. The fact that we have now had activity with the hairdressers is not certain that the representative enjoys so much, but there are at least many who have enjoyed coming back to the hairdresser. It does something to our whole community that we slowly, but surely come back to normal. It is true, as the representative says, that yesterday it was at least announced that there will be a change in the excess of the cash support scheme, or the compensation scheme. From the very beginning, we were quite clear that this is not a perfect arrangement. What's going on now is that we're getting a system in place, that we're getting emergency help for the companies to get through the coronary crisis. But we have to be open to adjustments. This is an example of such an adjustment. It has been estimated that reducing the proportion to NOK 5000 would lead to the inclusion of 10000 enterprises under the scheme. Here we're talking about our everyday work life, here we're talking about those that are a little bit smaller than the big ones. For those for whom the fraction of NOK 10 000 was actually a big barrier, it now becomes a little bit easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e506	After all, we were doing this with a fair share immediately when we dealt with the cash support scheme in Stortinget. Many of us – at least in the Center Party – then saw that it was very negative for small businesses. It's a fair share, but it also has to be a minimum sum of NOK 5000 to get something paid at all, plus the other arrangements. So you really have to go to NOK 17 000 to NOK 18 000 to get some compensation at all. We're going to come forward with a proposal in Stortinget to create after further pressure to remove the whole system of propensity, because we think it's unwise. There was another arrangement that we got up through in Stortinget, and where we finally got a majority – that's for seasonal businesses. It shall be a separate scheme for seasonal holdings, such as: winter sports places such as Hemsedal, Trysil and Hafjell, i.e. those areas that have really been hit hard because they lost their income in the most important month of the year. There we finally came to a common order, but the government has not yet been able to put it into life. There is great uncertainty and unrest in these companies. When does the answer come, when does the scheme come, so that those companies can get a little bit more breathing space?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e515	I understand that both the Stortinget and the companies are impatient, but you are working as well as you can, not only in the Ministry of Finance, which is working on this scheme, but also in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, which is helping us as best we can. We're working on a scheme for these seasonal businesses as well. We know that the Storting has been concerned about it, and it's coming, but we still haven't got it completely in place. It was important for the government, but also for the Storting, that we got a plan in place, and that we got started, so we made those payments. We see that there are differences between countries. Other countries, countries that may have a slightly more fine-masked scheme, have not made the rapid payments that we have made. We're starting to pay out. So far, 12,000 companies have been paid – probably even more now, because this is based on the previous reporting I got. It's been priority number one to get a system that can work fast, but we knew we had to work more. We are still working, and there will be something for the seasonal companies as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e523	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e528	The centre party was committed to establishing a system for self-employed workers as well. The government did not include it in its first draft, and we managed to get it in place through work here in the Stortinget. That is good, and it helps the self-employed a little bit. We were also concerned about the proportion and getting it down. Now it's going down a little bit. Hopefully, it will be completely gone in a month – that you have put it in place for the seasonal businesses. I want to address one last thing: we are dependent on Norwegian aviation. We are very dependent on having a well-functioning aviation in Norway. We see that this is a sustained crisis now. What has been most prominent in the public sector is the company that has a fine name: Norwegian. But we also have SAS and Ongoe, which we are totally dependent on as part of the social-critical infrastructure of our country. The compensation mechanism is without prejudice to aviation. The centre party believes that we should have a separate compensation scheme for aviation that allows them to receive cash transfers as well. It's one of the hardest hit industries, and we're totally dependent on having a well-functioning aviation for the autumn. Will the Minister of Industry assess its own cash support scheme and compensation scheme also for Norwegian aviation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e539	We have our own aviation system. It's not a cash support scheme, like the one that applies to companies, but it's a guarantee facility that they can draw on, and that we presented quite early in the crisis. Things happen quickly, and things evolve quickly, and it is clear that things look different now than when we presented that package. But it's a good package, which I know the airlines are working hard to get into – which we can all read about – to just pull it to get access to that money. So first of all, we have this guarantee facility, but in addition, we have concluded route agreements. This means that routes are flown in this country, between Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim, etc., with both SAS, Norwegian and Ontøe, which is also an important contribution to keeping the activity up. I have dialogue with both the Ministry of Transport and the airlines, when they want to communicate something to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e546	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e551	When we dealt with the compensation scheme in Stortinget, there was no doubt that there were many uncertain moments, and now it is about making quick the unsafe moments safe and secure. One is, of course, the Battle Force Vedum was inside, this with the propensity. It has to be adjusted. What we are experiencing now is explicit, concrete, that excesses go wrong. Somehow, it's going to look a little bit crooked. If you get just below, it'll seem unfortunate. The second is the seasonal holdings. Even after the decision by Stortinget has been taken, feedback is that it does not reach the seasonal holdings sufficiently. Many of these are within travel. We also have companies with permanent work, media companies, etc. So my question is, when does the government get back to Stortinget? When will the government be able to ensure that the arrangements discussed and announced in the Storting actually apply to business?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e560	Both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry are working to find solutions that allow this to be done better for the cases mentioned by the representative. The seasonal companies are something we work with, as I said, and we want to work to find a system that hits them better than the compensation system, as it is today. At the same time, there are some challenges that are going to last a long time, and we are now working to get an answer to how we are going to help business through it. The representative refers to travel life, and travel life is among the sectors that have been hit hardest by the coronary crisis. They met the crisis early, and now, when some time has passed, we see that this is going to be long-lasting, and that it is going to lead to reduced activity in travel not only this season but also in the future, after the summer. And it's not just about us, it's about the whole world being in "lockdown". So we now have recording sessions, where we get input into what we can do, also in the longer term, to get them through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e569	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e574	My question is addressed to the Minister of Culture, because there are also very many in his field that are not taken by the various compensation schemes in the Corona crisis. Not least, our 11,000 sports teams and the well over 50,000 volunteer organisations we have. This low hit security has been sport, volunteering and we in the opposition have said about it over and over again, over the last few weeks. But the minister has been very passive, not straightened up and almost seemed more concerned with getting his hair cut But fortunately, now the minister has finally said that he should adjust the arrangements to make them better and wider. One of the recordings earlier from the volunteer itself to get to this is your fight case number one: full VAT compensation, i.e. not taxes on their dues. The state has held back about 700 million. kr in that scheme in 2018 and 2019. Sport and volunteering believe that they get that arrangement now, it will both hit widely and be very democratic and easy to sort out. Will the Minister listen to their volunteering and the sport of this good proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e581	Of course, the Council of State listens to volunteering and sport, and so does the government. The compensation scheme for sport and volunteering has been adopted here at Stortinget, and it is along the lines we have established these search schemes. There have been 2,324 applications from sport, volunteering and culture, totaling up to 371 million. NOK – if they fulfil the conditions – for a scheme of 700 million. kr. As soon as the amounts were clear, I was the first to say that we should work to adjust these arrangements. It has been obvious to me all along, that in such a coronary situation to make packages no one has been in the past, and it will be necessary to make adjustments. I've communicated that, we're going to do that, and we're now working on that to hit the width of those layers. We're going to see how we can take care of both sport and volunteering more. In terms of VAT compensation, there's something we have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e586	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e591	I really hope that the Minister will take a look at the proposal for VAT compensation, because it is a big deal. The challenge is that, for example: voluntary activities are not taken by the loan guarantee; they have problems finding any support at all. Only a few come under the cash support scheme. Then we have the challenge of the event package, which the minister has now talked about. What the minister, department and government have been asked about over and over again is what falls under the cash support scheme for all the industries that have very many industry-specific costs, like the media industry, which I and many others have promised over and over again. What does the scheme include? They don't get answers, they permit, they publish worse than they should. The same applies, for example: The film industry, which has a very special challenge now and is almost like a seasonal enterprise to count. They can't just postpone and then book a lot of people, who are already booked, because when they can start up again. How do you work speedily to get a concrete overview of the fixed costs they can cover?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e599	The question is about VAT, the media industry, the film industry and the cash support system. What I'm proposing when it comes to how the cash support framework is designed is to go in and look at the different websites, and you'll see how it's managed. Some companies also come under my sector. We don't have the full overview of how many people have applied, but I have some examples. Both some museums and others, including some stage institutions, have applied for this. The volunteer has applied for the scheme we have established, estimated up to a little over 100 million. kr. That is why we have said that the breadth of volunteering is not taken by this, and that is why we need to make the necessary adjustments. Then I can assure the representative that, as we wrote to the Storting through this proposition, we are occupied with local media. They constitute a very important institution in Norway to inform the population, to succeed the politicians, and not least to criticise the different arrangements we make. We're working on that. I've also had meetings with movies. We are engaged in both Norwegian and Norwegian series production, and we will follow up all of this responsibly when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e606	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e611	The representative of the Battle Violence Vedum is right in saying that the Red Party and the Senter Party have been thinking about the small businesses. One of the concerns we raised early was that the aid scheme adopted by the Stortinget would end up enriching the landlords, i.e. the estates, rather than going for the purpose: companies that are struggling with fixed costs. The majority of the population rejected our proposal to apply the emergency section of the House Rental Act to impose rents to ensure that the companies got the money and not just the farm days. Since then, we have seen several examples of – in the class struggle, in today’s business life – that the landlords do not cut house rents, on the grounds that the companies now receive support from the state, that is to say the opposite of what Left, Right and other parties said in the Stortinget that we should trust that farm days would also contribute to the hard work. I wonder if the Council of State Nybø can answer whether the government will consider – or reconsider – demanding a house shuttle to ensure that the money goes to the companies and not just to fill in the accounts for these farm days.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e618	Firstly, I would like to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that farmers are also in different situations. They also have different financial assumptions. It is not that they can be cut over one comb, either. My experience is that there is a little variety out there, just how simple different tenants feel it is to get accepted at the farm in order to reduce the rental. At the same time, there are also many who are willing to discuss it, either to postpone the rental or to reduce it, because even farm days have to deal with the fact that if these companies go bankrupt, they no longer have a tenant. As the corona has hit us now, it is long-term, and in particular the trade in goods is very hard hit by the corona. If they are to have tenants in the future, they must also be on the offer page. That has been the assessment, and we see that many are also willing to enter into a dialogue about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e625	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e630	Yes, that's right – it's farmers who contribute, and it's very good. It's all the more a shame that someone can sneak away because for different reasons they don't choose to go in for homework. There are non-resident buying-in funds that have commercial property in Norway that are not particularly well off. We look at interviews with e.g. the owners of the coffee bar chain Dromedar that they are struggling to get a pass for their home play. The catering industry points out in the Class struggle that farm days are ‘slow about offering rental reduction’. And in a number of countries around us, there are demands from the community, which therefore distribute billions of dollars in support, in order to avoid money going to anything other than what was the purpose of this. So yes, there are some nice guys and girls on the farm side -- that's very good -- but why accept that those who are not as kind get to sneak away? Why not make demands that everyone actually have to contribute, including foreign funds that own property in Norway? Why not make reasonable and necessary demands of such a nature to ensure that such contributions are also made by them?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e637	This is an agreement between two private parties. Then we can have a expectation that everyone will contribute. It is also in everyone’s interest that they survive. My great concern is to get these companies through this. It's about having bars and pubs and cafes on the other side of this coronary crisis. That is my greatest concern. Infectious diseases and infectious diseases are affecting this part of the business very hard. That's why we have set up this cash support scheme – not because those who receive this cash support get rich from it, because this does not cover lost sales, it covers parts of the fixed, unavoidable costs. Not having everything covered, they have to negotiate with private parties with whom they have contracts to reduce their expenses, so they can also help them through.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e644	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e649	It's one thing I think a lot of people think is very difficult to understand, and it's that we have set up a compensation scheme in Norway, crisis aid in times of crisis, where it's quite difficult for the smallest companies to get into the scheme, while for the companies that are organized in tax havens, which take out large exchanges, there's no limit. So for the big players, those who are organized abroad, those who have the ability to make a big exchange in the current situation, there are no limits, but for the smallest companies, there are significant limitations. It not only applies to the property, it also applies to the amount of the payment, which also amounts to NOK 5000. We've got many, many messages about people in a hopeless situation. It's all from a small bakery, photographers, a used shop and farmers who run with a lot of work, to musicians who run a studio, who don't get support, and who see this as difficult. Then the question is, why in all the world are we not making it harder for those who are organized in tax havens? Denmark has introduced it. They have decided that if one is organized in a tax haven, it will not be possible to get emergency help. Sweden has put in place strict rules for exchange, where only what is normal pay can be taken out. Several EU countries are now considering the introduction of strict rules, including for the large ones. Is there any good reason why a person does not do this in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e660	First, I just have to correct the representative a little, because there are some limitations also for the big companies in how much they can get paid in this compensation scheme. But it's true, as the representative says, that it's tough for the little ones, and it's also been due to the fact that the proportion has been 10 000 kroner. If you have a turnover fall of more than 30 p.m., a few can cover unavoidable expenses up to 80 p.m., but then with a balance of NOK 10000, which means that many have not been covered by that scheme. That's exactly the recognition we've had, and that's why we've also lowered the proportion, from NOK 10,000 to NOK 5000, which makes that approximately. 10000 enterprises may benefit from this scheme. It's about the small businesses, it's about our everyday work life, it's about providing emergency help, so they can survive and get out on the other side and give us the offer they've given us before. But to link some comments to the second issue raised by the representative, this with dividends: it is not certain that the representative and I share the starting point, but I believe that in a non-profit world private companies should be able to pay dividends. That's part of the system we have. It is important to attract capital, it is an important part of being the owner to expect dividends. Not least, the government benefits from dividends in our companies. I know that there is a discussion in other countries in Europe that there are different rules in place. We have chosen not to impose a dividend ban in order to receive help in this cash support scheme, and there are various reasons for this. One reason might be that many companies need to make dividends in order to pay taxes on wealth, but there are other reasons. But we know that there's movement on it, and we're going along.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e671	I don't think most people understand that some companies, for example. Norwegian Forest, have to permit large parts of the workforce and at the same time pay large exchanges. A used shop or someone who runs a small bakery does not get access to emergency assistance at all, while it makes actors like Norwegian Forest, because there are no limits to it. Of course, in sizes up to 30 million. kr, etc. has that kind of boundaries, but here we're talking about survival or not for businesses. Only to take tax havens: the government itself says, in other contexts, that tax havens are a haze and can hide ‘substantial corruption and illegal capital flight. Not only are high values neglected, but it undermines incentives for honest work and reduces the possibility of financing school, health and other important Community tasks». One believes that this is an udder, but has voted down the SV's proposals that there should be a ban on companies that are organized in tax havens. What is the reason why a rule like that cannot be introduced in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e681	Once again, I just have to correct the representative, so that things are done correctly. Not everyone has enjoyed the cash support scheme, but we have several crisis packages. The cash support scheme is one of them. We have a loan arrangement, we've changed the permit code, and many of the companies the representative promises as the small ones can take advantage of the permit code, which made the government take a good part of the bill for the employees and the compensation of employees there. This with a dividend and a dividend ban is to the extent an interesting discussion, and it had the stake when this compensation scheme was adopted. SV did not get a pass for his vision at the time. There are movements out in Europe, and in these days you can't say that it's never going to happen, but so far our assessment has been that there has been no wish for a dividend ban. I believe, however, that this does not provide the basis for any dividend fixing, as the situation is too many companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e688	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e693	We have different opinions about exchange, but I asked a concrete question about tax havens. We know that tax havens hide criminal activity on the most serious around the world, something we seem to be a few about. I'm going to give the Council another chance, because we haven't got a proper answer to that: can we have one good reason why one has not defined the crisis aid for companies that are organized in tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e698	The answer is still the same, although the representative does not necessarily like the answer. The preliminary assessment has been that we should not have a dividend ban. As we say in these times, there may be new assessments and adjustments, but this debate on the prohibition of dividends as such was the last one. We see that there are changes out there in Europe, and we follow it, but so far we have not changed the compensation scheme in this respect. We have focused primarily on helping the companies that are here, and therefore we made two changes, which were launched yesterday. One is the excess that was reduced from NOK 10000 to NOK 5000.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e705	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e710	The Minister of Industry is right to stand still, for my question goes to her. 10.7 pst. unemployment, more than 400,000 have applied for daily allowance, 14 000 enterprises are currently receiving grants from the compensation scheme – it tells us about a very serious situation for Norwegian business, a situation that will not go over with the first, and which will very clearly affect workers and businesses over a long period of time. A number of good measures have been put in place to meet businesses and workers with security immediately – the rules on permitting have been improved, the support system has been put in place. But the only basis for creating security over time is to get the activity up and make sure we do just that. My question is not simple, but at least it should be of great interest for the Minister of Industry to be able to answer, namely how to cope now, through the various schemes that are in place, to ensure that we regain activity. My question is: will the Council of State within the system that is now, and preferably through the compensation system, ensure that we stimulate activity and not passivity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e719	That is a very good question the representative asks. I think it might be the most important question we have to discuss in order to get business to come forward. The government has always been concerned that this crisis must be dealt with in different phases. The first phase dealt with the business sector in terms of the regulatory framework for outsourcing and liquidity. Then we got these loan arrangements and the changes in the law on permitting. We're now in phase two, where we've put this compensation mechanism in place. The compensation mechanism is emergency aid. It's about the companies being able to survive this. It does not compensate for lost turnover, and it is quite right that the representative says it's about business, it's about making money. That's what's the challenge now when society goes low. Now we're going into phase three. That's the discussion we have now, and that's exactly what the representative points out: what do we do now to get the activity back? What's our big dilemma is that we have to press the gas and the brake at the same time, because we're still in a situation where we can't have full activity in our business. There are still limitations. We're going to have to live a long time with the infectious diseases that we have, which means that our business has reduced activity. At the same time, we're going to press a little bit on the gas to get this back up again. That's what we're talking about right now. That's why the government has initiated a whole series of meetings with different industries to get input: what do we do now? What are the phase three measures that can bring the activity back? Then we have to be completely honest and say that something is relatively easy to do, because we can easily initiate counter-cyclical measures. In other areas, we lack a market, for example. for travel, which makes us get a different kind of challenge. That's what we're working on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e728	I tried to listen very carefully to what measures the Minister of Industry might think. I didn't hear very many – really none – through the post. That the government thinks about it is kind of okay, but I don't know how reassuring it is. First of all, what is one of the characteristics now is that we have a well-functioning permitting legislation, and we have a compensation system that is – let's say – a crisis support for companies for fixed, unavoidable costs. If a couple the two and look at how to deal with the support that's there, on activity: does the Minister of Industry have any thoughts? On Saturday, in Dagbladet, the Labour Party leader challenged the government to meet with the parties to see if it is possible under the legislation to find solutions that build up under activity. The leader of the LO is out there recommending that wages be included in the compensation scheme. Is the initiative of the head of the Workers' Party to sit down with the parties and discuss this, and possibly also to include what the LO leader says about wage subsidies into the compensation scheme, currently to be assessed for the Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e737	Firstly, the social partners have had a very good dialogue with us throughout this crisis. The trust that exists between the parties and the authorities has really made us set up these arrangements quickly, and that we have managed to make payments. That dialogue I hope, expect and expect to continue. We're working on these measures now, and we've also said that we want to present them. But what measures we end up with will not be clear until we actually present them, and that will happen now before summer. We're now in that phase. Nor is it the case that all the measures will be put in place before the summer – there will also be things we will have to look at in the longer term, precisely because this crisis is going to last longer. What we've done now is we've used the system we have. I see that a lot of people say that instead of focusing on permitting, they focus on salary subsidies. So far, we've been using the system that we have, and that's when it's not a job, you have to permit. But I see that this is the situation now, you see that you would like to have people back to work, without having the money to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e746	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e751	Activity is the key word for success or failure in the future. Now, through this questioning procedure, we have been told that the compensation scheme does not hit everyone. It has to hit more, it has to hit wider, and we have to find solutions to it. It also contributes to the inaction of people being permitted, and that we passively support the companies at a time when we are slow, but surely must start getting the activity back up again. At the latest on my way down here now I received a message from the Straand Hotel in Telemark, which was doubtful that they were unable to initiate the activity they really want. Another situation that is experienced in this context is that of e.g.: intra-corporate training, which is now at risk of falling out as a solution because one chooses to permit instead of having activity in the enterprise. Can the Council of State assure us that she will now consider all the different actions being played, as a basis for increasing activity at a time when we are most likely to have a low economic situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e759	The answer to the question is yes. We're evaluating all of the suggestions we're getting. But I would also like to make some comments about this with this compensation scheme. The way it is designed, for the vast majority of companies, it will continue to pay off their activities, because not all of their expenses will be compensated. It is not that you can just put everything on the freezer, wait until the corona is over, and then take it up again as if nothing had happened. First of all, you don't get to compensate all of your fixed, inevitable expenses. It's still a fraction, it's still money that's not being paid if it's less than NOK 5000. So that system is also designed in a way that doesn't make it pay to do nothing, because we now have to stimulate activity. The most important thing we want to do for business in the phase we're going to be going into will be about activity, it's going to be about getting the wheels started. I believe that now that we're opening up society a little after a while, is very positive, and it also has ring-fenced business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e766	Let's move on to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e771	Private actors create jobs and values for our society. In many areas, they can also provide services as a complement to or substitute for public services. They contribute to freedom of choice and diversity in the welfare industry, and that's exactly what I thought the Right and the Advance Party actually agreed on. My question goes to the Minister of Health. When the corona pandemic struck Norway, many were afraid that the capacity of Norwegian hospitals would be blown up. Several private actors arrived early and offered their capacity to deal with what the Minister of Health calls hard work. LHL has a private hospital at Gardermoen, a fluttering new hospital with a fully equipped intensive care unit. It's probably Norway's finest hospital. They offered to clear up space to meet the capacity challenges that could arise in public health. The Advance Party called early for this hospital to be converted into a coronary hospital – with perfect location near the airport at Gardermoen. However, the Minister of Health's contribution has really disappointed me. First, it took a long time for the LHL hospital to get some feedback, and when they first did, they received a few enquiries and were not used much. The LHL hospital – after a dialogue with Aarhus – decided to invest nearly 20 million. out of own resources to prepare to receive covid-19 patients. The agreement with Aarhus was ready before Easter, but before it was signed, Health South-East intervened. Since then, LHL has not heard anything or received any further feedback. They are now without an agreement with the public health service, and this week it became clear that they leave 70 employees and reduce their operation because they are not used. What is the reason why the Minister of Health does not use the capacity available in the private sector to handle both covid-19 patients and to treat ordinary patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e780	It is not true that we do not use the capacity of private people – on the contrary. Many contracts have been concluded with private individuals on the basis of that type of thinking, including: with Martina Hansen's Hospital, which closed its ordinary activities and has been used as a public health hospital to relieve the situation. So I know that there has also been a good dialogue with the LHL hospital about the corresponding. But there are some hospitals and healthcare companies that have to consider what is the actual need, and it is clear that a few weeks before Easter the situation looks so different than it looked through the Passover. This is also about assessing what is the actual need. The LHL hospital is one of the hospitals with which we have an agreement, and I expect Aarhus and Health South-East to continue to have a good dialogue with these. Now we're going back to a situation where the activity in the hospitals is going to be more normal, and then my mission is that one should also use the private ones, among other things. to take back some of the delays that have occurred as a result of the lower activity that was in our hospitals especially before and through the Passover.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e789	Thanks for the answer. So now the situation is such that from 12 March the Norwegian health care system scaled down its activities. Planned operations were suspended. The Health Minister has not answered my written question about how many patients have been put into a health queue as a result of this, but the NRK could report that 250,000 patient agreements have been postponed two weeks ago. Thus, when the Minister of Health states in his first reply that it is about taking into account the actual situation and assessing the actual needs, it is worth noting that 250,000 patient agreements are being queried. This is going to be the next health crisis. In order to take away that health queue, we are totally dependent on all available capacity being used, and then, in my view, it is crucial that the private sector be allowed to contribute to it. The scandal is that a private hospital permits employees and reduces their operation in this situation. Does the Minister of Health agree with that assessment, and will the Council of State enter into dialogue with private hospitals as soon as possible to enter into agreements to remove the entire health queue?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e796	Now I'm not directly involved in the kind of negotiations, but my mission is that one should also use the free capacity of the private sector, precisely for the purpose that the representative here addresses, to take back some of the lag that is. Then we also need to be aware that this is going to be a permanent challenge, because our major public hospitals need to maintain a preparedness for a situation where we may get an increase in the spread of infection and more sick people. That means that even if they're going back to more normal activity, they won't be able to go back to completely normal activity. In such a situation, the use of available capacity would be a good measure to ensure that those patients who can get help and treatment there can get help and treatment there. It is a thought that I fully agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e803	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-29.ana.ud488e817	There is no record. The current map has thus been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
