ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e97	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e102	Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen and I ourselves are promoting a proposal to remove the unworthy and artificial constraints on steam equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e107	In this very special case, we see that individual families get such huge extras every month that I fear that it would affect children's right to health care. I therefore ask that the proposal be dealt with urgently in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e110	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e115	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Aasrud, Lise Christoffersen, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to tighten up the rental rules, to remove general access to temporary employment, to clarify the employer's responsibilities and to strengthen the PES.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e120	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that case No. 3 on today's map has not been out in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that the matter be examined. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e142	I will, on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party, submit proposals for a legislative remark to the matter in question: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under Section II 4, the following heading is assumed to be added: § 4 Abbreviation of income Under III, the following second subparagraph, second sentence, is assumed to be added: The amendment to the second paragraph of Section 13 shall enter into force immediately.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e162	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e179	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e195	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e212	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e227	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to explain to the Storting about the status and management of the coronary apathy. Since the Prime Minister’s presentation on 19 June, the situation has evolved further. It is therefore natural to reorient the Storting about the situation. The coronary apathy is the most serious crisis Norway has experienced since World War II. The pandemic and the measures taken have had a major impact on all parts of society. The Covid l9 pandemic has from the start been a national incident that has hit almost all parts of society, and crisis management has been promised to the government. In those days, seven months have passed since the most interventional peacetime measures were introduced in Norway. In a big joint effort, we managed to bring down the infection numbers. When June arrived, there was still infection in Norway, but at a low level. Most of the measures introduced on 12 March and in the following days could be phased out. In Europe, too, infection rates in most countries had fallen to a much lower level than for a long time. We could therefore cancel the quarantine obligation from several countries over the summer. But in the rest of the world, the development of infection was very worrying. When we shut the country down in March, it was about. 100 000 confirmed worldwide. When the Prime Minister told the Stortinget in June, it was approx. 7 million people confirmed the infection. Today, more than 36 million people have been confirmed to be infected worldwide. More than one million people have died of covid-19. This is a frightening and very serious situation. The Norwegian figures continue to contrast with the situation in many other countries with a rapid increase in infection. As of today, more than 15,500 have been confirmed infected, and 276 are dead due to covid-19 in Norway. We have lower infection rates than we see elsewhere in Europe, although we have also had an increase after the summer. But the situation can change quickly. We have seen in several other European countries and also in our neighbouring countries that this can happen. The first careful reopening of society started already in April. After that, we have gradually opened up and checked. All the way, we've been closely following developments to keep control. On 7 May, the Government adopted a long-term strategy and plan for the management of the coronary apathy and adjustment of measures. The aim of the strategy was to keep the spread of infection under control. The strategy outlines, among other things: the principles on which the adjustment of measures must be based and the assumptions that must be present before the adoption of an adjustment to the measures for the protection of infection. The strategy was followed up by a contingency plan for disease prevention measures that can be implemented by increasing the spread of infection. The emergency plan came on 10 June and has always been a good basis for rapid decisions and correct responses when necessary. Some basic measures have always been at the bottom. It's keeping one meter away, keeping us home when we're sick, and washing and drinking our hands. In the case of local outbreaks during the harvest, the measures have been implemented on the basis of the emergency plan — both nationally and locally. From 15 July onwards, the Government opened up to and from Schengen and EEA countries which had a satisfactory non-quarantine infectious situation. The Government established objective criteria for the level of infection in EU and EEA countries. Travellers from countries meeting the criteria of so-called green land were exempted from quarantine. The public health institute was commissioned to assess the level of infection on a weekly basis, based on these criteria. Other countries were defined as red countries, where quarantine requirements were continued. We work closely with the Nordic countries on this, especially with Denmark. In the Nordic region, the infectiveness situation is assessed at regional level. Throughout the summer, the infection situation remained at a low level. We saw the same developments in Europe and the Nordic countries. Several countries and regions became green. At the end of July, the local outbreak came several places in the country. This was expected and described as a likely development in what is called scenario 1 of the government’s strategy. As long as the infection is in society and one has not attained immunity through vaccination, the infection will flare up in some places. In Oslo, many people were infected after partying together. 69 municipalities worked hard to follow up passengers who had been infected on the fast route. In Sweden and Moss many cases were reported. There was still little infection in Norway as a whole, but the local increase was nevertheless worrying. We also saw that infection increased in many countries that had previously controlled the virus. Several countries began to close down — where they had previously opened up. Green countries and regions became red again. In Norway, we had low infections during the summer. Therefore, we were not able to test the effectiveness of testing, isolation, detection of infection and quarantine, often referred to as TISK, in combination with strictly local measures introduced to reduce local outbreaks. This made it necessary to brake in order to maintain control. The challenge was to prevent the infection from increasing so much that we had to close schools, hospitals and workplaces again. That means other things were put on hold. The plan was that the reopening of society would continue beyond late summer and autumn, if the infective situation enabled. The disease situation changed and therefore the reopening was not possible. We first had to test that the strategy of shutting down outbreaks locally seemed sufficient to maintain control. So we still didn't open for events with 500 people from 1 September, but we kept the limit of 200 people. We also did not open up any training, contests or competitions in the adult sport from 1 September. We saw that local outbreaks could be traced both to private parties and serving places, and we tightened up in some areas. From 9 August, it was forbidden to serve alcohol after midnight throughout the country. During the weeks after the tip, the number of people infected went down sharply, both at private parties and serving places. The vacation time was approaching the end, and it was school start. There would be a greater need for public transport in the big cities. The government encouraged as much as possible to go or ride a bicycle to work and school. We encouraged all employers to facilitate the use of home offices and to shift working time when possible, in order to avoid travelling during rush hours. Why did the infection increase? Many thought that it was because we opened up for travel to and from other countries. Increased travel activity is only part of the explanation. It turned out that only a small proportion of the infected could be traced directly to the rest of the world. However, as part of the braking process, the government recommended Norwegian residents to avoid unnecessary travel abroad. This was also due to a rapid change in the infection situation in many European countries. Several could risk travelling to a green country, but end up with quarantine when they came home. In order to clarify the government’s recommendation, all countries that were previously green were defined as yellow from 12 August. On 9 August Bergen opened a test station in Flesland. In a meeting with the relevant municipalities on 10 August, the Health Directorate, after clarification with the government, indicated that the government was aiming to compensate the municipalities for the costs of operating the test stations. The first test station after this was in progress on 12 August. Then, testing stations were quickly established at selected aerodromes, ports and border crossings, so that travellers could easily test themselves when they arrived at the country. On 21 September, the government proposed to Stortinget an earmarked grant scheme to cover the costs of municipalities for such test centres. Travelers who came from red land were required to use mouthbands on their way to the place where they were to be quarantined. Entry from outside the EU and EEA territory was not open. In mid-August, the infection situation worsened because several major local outbreaks occurred. Internal Eastfold municipalities had put in place comprehensive measures to reduce a major outbreak. There were also large local outbreaks in Oslo and several other places. From Monday 17 August, the government recommended mouthbands in public transport in the municipality of Oslo and in the residential and labour market region of Inner Eastfold. The recommendation only applied when it was impossible to keep one meter away. In the country as a whole, there has been relatively low infection rates compared to other countries. Nevertheless, local outbreaks have resulted in a steady increase in the number of infected persons over the autumn. But we have also learned that local outbreaks have been shut down as a result of a great deal of effort in the municipalities. In the municipality of Bergen, there was a major outbreak a month ago. The municipality took decisive action and put in place strict measures. Three weeks later, the outbreak was shut down so far that the municipality could open up again. These experiences are essential for governments to start to facilitate several national measures, while at the same time providing for stronger responses in the event of local outbreaks. I'll get back to that. Recently, the situation in Oslo has been worrying. There have been several outbreaks. The number of infected persons increased significantly several weeks in a row. In addition, there are many cases of infection where it has not been possible to track where one has been infected. I'm glad that on 28 September, Oslo introduced more stringent measures to reduce the infection in the city. The municipalities around the capital also followed up quickly and set up their own actions to support the actions of Oslo. We hope that the locally anchored measures will be effective, but both the municipality of Oslo and the health authorities are now closely following developments. Infectious detection is important to keep the infection down. As a tool, the Septic Stop app was launched in April. Two months later, the Public Health Institute deactivated the stoppage app and deleted all personal data. The reason was that the Data Protection Authority had notified a decision to temporarily prohibit the processing of personal data related to the stoppage of infection. In addition, the size decided for consent. That's why we have now chosen to move on with a completely new solution based on the Google and Apple framework. The new app can only be used for alerting persons who have been in close contact with someone infected, not for research and analysis. With the stoppage, we lost a tool that could provide us with useful knowledge of the spread of infection and the movements of the population, which would be a good basis for even more targeted disease protection measures. The new solution will not give us the same information, but will be a useful tool to alert close contacts faster. The goal is to be able to provide the population with the new app during the autumn, but we also need to be prepared here that there may be challenges and develop the solution along the way. It is also the experience of those countries that have put this solution into practice. I believe that this will be a solution that will take care of Storting's decision. The government is well aware of the infection rates at national and local level. Nationally, the number of notified infected persons has increased since the beginning of August, from about 300 cases in August to 800 to 900 cases per week now. The picture has been marked by many local outbreaks and large geographical variations in the disease situation around the country. On 30 September, we therefore decided to facilitate certain national measures for the protection of infectious diseases with effect from 12 October. At the same time, municipalities need to consider more stringent measures locally where the pressure for transmission is high. In most places in the country, we have good control of the infection situation. While some municipalities have had a tough time with outbreaks, infection tracking and local measures, many municipalities have neither infected nor infected. But the municipalities have shown that they, together with the population, can take control back. The government has therefore implemented several reliefs nationally — against local congestion in municipalities: We have re-opened for normal training for adults over 20 years of age in line with the sport's own plan for phase re-opening process. The audience can sit on any other seat where there are fixed seats. The national tip was lifted overnight until today. But serving places with a gift permit still have to keep an overview of who is present. Opened for outdoor events with up to 600 persons present at the same time, divided into cohorts of up to 200 persons. If infection increases or local outbreaks occur, municipalities have to assess the need for measures such as squeezing restrictions and whether the width of adult population should pause until the infection is under control, as decided by the Municipality of Oslo. On 21 September, the government sent out a new circular to the municipalities to help quickly take the necessary decisions, such as: bans on gatherings of a certain size or other measures restricting social interaction between people. The circular provides an overview of recommended local measures in the event of outbreaks and their legal basis and guidance on the design of municipal decisions. The circular was updated on the entry into force of the national reliefs on 12 October. It is the municipalities that are at the forefront of the fight to stop the infection. Municipalities that have experienced outbreaks of infection have done a great deal to deal with them. Because the municipalities have been quick to implement local measures and communicate well with the inhabitants, we have maintained control until now. Good communication with the population is very important in order to promote the digestion of infectious diseases control measures. In the autumn, testing capacity has increased significantly both in health regions and in municipalities. We've tested a lot more, and we've quickly gained control of the spread. Municipalities that have experienced an outbreak of infection have followed a clear recipe. Clear management and swift decisions are at the top. Then it is about effective detection of infection and that as many close contacts as possible are quickly tested. Local authorities must have sufficient personnel on standby, and they must be able to quickly notify the population through the media. They also need to communicate externally in a way that creates trust and motivates citizens to follow the rules. No one knows which municipality is next hit. Everyone must be prepared for an outbreak. Fortunately, we have gained a lot of valuable experience from the municipalities that have managed the outbreaks. These are experiences that other municipalities are now taking very great advantage of, and that can save lives and save society for great costs. We contribute to the sharing of these experiences, thus making the municipalities better prepared in advance. The municipalities in this area receive good help from the national health authorities. Among other things, we have establish a national infection tracking team at the Institute for Public Health that contributes to this work. Health authorities follow the situation closely. If progress is to be made, we will soon be able to introduce new national measures. The Government will follow up the Storting decision to publish the professional basis for new disease protection measures before being announced, starting this week. We have to keep control of the infection and shut down local outbreaks when they occur. It's a general goal. This means that municipalities have to ensure that they have sufficient capacity for testing, infecting, monitoring and enforcement beyond the harvest and winter. The Health Directorate is leading an effort team to review all stages of the testing system, so that we can cope with this great work together. Municipalities are still facing major challenges. In April the municipalities were asked to establish a weekly sampling test capacity corresponding to a level of 5 pst. by the inhabitants of the municipality. The increased capacity was to be established through a gradual escalation and in place from August 2020. In mid-September, the Health Directorate reported that the municipalities were able to test 1.5 pst. of the population per week and that, with a few exceptions, they could increase the capacity to test 5 pst. of the population for a period. As of today, more than 1.1 million tests have been carried out. The availability of personnel is a major challenge for municipalities. Municipalities should consider how they may be able to use personnel other than those for which they are available on a daily basis and plan to do so. The Health Act facilitates the use of personnel other than health professionals, provided that they receive appropriate training and guidance. Several municipalities are doing this work well. Several temporary legislative changes have been adopted to facilitate and simplify the situation of a number of healthcare professionals. For example, last year’s health professionals can obtain a licence and contribute to mobilization in the event of an outbreak of infection. The government recommends that municipalities recruit personnel to maintain standby – initially until the summer of 2021. The Directorate has also established a health professional register in which more than 7 500 persons have registered as available to municipalities and health enterprises. Civil defence and volunteers have made important contributions to the management of the pandemic. The government understands that many municipalities are concerned about their own economy and can therefore be reluctant to take all these measures. In order to reduce this uncertainty, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation sent me a letter to all the country's rapporteurs on 4 September. The letter states that the government aims to cover all the necessary costs in the municipal sector, following the TISK strategy and specific infection prevention measures in 2020 and 2021. We also write that the government will assess specific compensation for municipalities that have had large additional costs as a result of local outbreaks. This promise we've followed up in Prop. 142 S for 2019-2020, which was submitted on 21 September. That's where we propose to allocate 500 million. NOK to municipalities that have incurred particularly large costs as a result of an outbreak. The government has set up a working group to identify the impact of the coronary apathy on the municipalities. The government will return to the need for possible further compensation to the local government sector for the additional corona-related costs of the reclassification for 2020. We have also informed the municipalities that the government will provide an additional number for the 2021 budget during November, with preliminary estimates for additional expenditure and minor income for the local government sector in 2021 and related appropriations. The earlier test response, the earlier we can put measures in place. We therefore assess the possibility of faster test runs and the use of rapid tests to increase test capacity and get faster responses – at a lower price. Health South-East has already contracted 3 million faster and 2 million more options. Spice samples, which are now being tested in Oslo, and rapid tests will be able to significantly facilitate the work of municipalities and health businesses. About half of the municipalities have now used digital detection tools, and several sites can be ordered digitally. The community has contributed discretionary means to put this in place in several places and coordinates that municipalities in the same area can use similar tools. At national level, test responses to citizens and health professionals have been made rapidly available via healthnorge.no and core journal. The Directorate for Health, the Institute for Public Health and the Directorate for eHealth are now working together on digital solutions for better data sharing to ensure better monitoring, including alerting local doctors. A national infection tracking team is under construction in the Public Health Institute. The team assists municipalities in the detection of infection and will be important to prevent the spread of infection in municipalities with outbreaks, especially when several municipalities are affected. The coronary apathy is constantly developing and closely monitored by the health authorities. It is a continuous assessment whether a legal regulation or recommendation should be made at national level. The crucial thing is how the infection situation is at all times. Legal measures in the form of obligations and prohibitions to prevent the spread of infection in Norway must be governed by Sections 1 to 5. It implies that measures must be based on clear medical grounds, be necessary for the purpose of the protection of the infection and appear appropriate after an overall assessment. When implementing disease protection measures, attention shall be paid to the voluntary involvement of the person or measures concerned. Quarantine rules have been a continuous national measure throughout the pandemic. The rules have been amended several times in line with the situation of infection. There have also been different rules for entry quarantines and infectious quarantines. The frequent changes have contributed to the idea that the quarantine rules have been perceived as untransparent and complicated. The Government has therefore simplified and clarified the quarantine rules in the covid-l9 Regulation of 14 September. The government is also continuing to review the whole of the covid l9 regulation in terms of simplification and improvement. There is also a process in progress in the EU to further strengthen the coordination of travel-related actions. The process seems to turn into a new Council recommendation. Norway has welcomed this initiative. This could create predictability for countries and prevent unjustified barriers. At the same time, it is up to national authorities to assess the risk profile and to decide on measures based on national circumstances. The pandemic caused many health and care services to be reduced or closed. This affected vulnerable groups, particularly vulnerable children and young people. Many of those who were already vulnerable have become more vulnerable in this time. At the same time, health care professionals showed great ability to convert during the pandemic. Services that previously required physical attendance were quickly transferred to digital platforms and home to the patient. There has been a marked growth in the use of video consultation, welfare technology and on-line action programmes. Increased use of digital health and care services helped many to maintain their supply to patients and users through the pandemic. We have to try to avoid that pandemic management affects important services in municipalities. This applies not least to services for children and young people who are struggling, for the elderly and for those who are struggling with mental illness and drug abuse. In our house we introduced a stop in hospitals and hospitals to prevent the spread of infection among the most vulnerable. Both residents, patients and relatives experienced stoppage as a heavy burden, with solitude and isolation. When we got control of the spread of infection in our house, we opened up for a visit again. The community reported that many made a great effort to facilitate visits and to open up relief and activity facilities. However, the rules continue to be applied unnecessarily strictly in some places, with strict restrictions on when and how often visits can be received and on how long the visit can last. I would like to make it clear that such measures can only be defended in order to limit serious spread of infection. Patients and residents should be able to be visited by their closest friends. The community now follows up municipalities that have too strict rules for visits. At the same time, we have made national recommendations for visiting schemes even clearer in order to meet people’s need for visits and social dialogue with others. The stoppage was introduced by health institutions and not in private homes. Unfortunately, we now see that many municipalities also introduced a stopover in nursing homes and housing, which are actually the residents' own private homes. This occurred despite the fact that the Health Directorate made it clear that access control and visitor restrictions in private homes must be done on a voluntary basis, following dialogue with the user, relatives and, where appropriate, guardians. The message was clear in the directorate’s circular of 14 March, and the message was further clarified on 20 April – after an enquiry from among others. Norwegian Association for the Developmentally Impaired. In a letter dated 29 May, the Health Directorate asked the county councillors to follow up the message in their respective municipalities. The message was repeated by the health director at the Friday press conference. The government will follow up the decision of the Storting and ask the Corona Commission to take a special look at this matter. At the beginning of the pandemic, several municipalities redeployed staff from health and school health services to tasks with the coronary apathy. The provision of services was reduced, leading to responses both among health professionals and among users. The government expressed early concern for children and young people who, for various reasons, are particularly vulnerable. Although the measures have been necessary, we have always assessed the impact of these measures on vulnerable children. As a result of the pandemic and the closure, some services providing assistance to vulnerable children and young people were reduced in capacity, and we feared that this would particularly affect vulnerable children. A working group set up to look at the provision of services to vulnerable children and young people, such as young people. children living under difficult family conditions or having mental health challenges confirm that part of the cause of the reduced activity was due to the redisposal of tasks related to the coronary apathy. The report of the Working Group has provided us with important knowledge of the provision of services to vulnerable children and young people across sectors. In addition, the Group has contributed to closer cooperation between the Directorates and more coordinated efforts. In a request decision, the Stortinget has asked the government to draw up clear guidelines on how vulnerable children and young people, addicts, disabled people, people with severe mental illness and other vulnerable groups should be protected by a possible new closure. The Government will follow up this Decision in an appropriate manner. On 19 May, I asked the Health Directorate to write to municipalities and health regions and to remind them that the responsible for the services is carrying out an assessment of the necessity before they redispatch personnel. In the letter to the rapporteurs on 4 September, we make it quite clear that, as a general rule, health care professionals should not be used in the testing and tracing of infection. The Health Directorate continuously assesses the need for other interventions and closely monitors the effects of the coronary situation on mental health and quality of life in the population and on vulnerable groups. In the last six months, adults in need of rehabilitation have been demanding. Many had to stop the rehabilitation either at the private rehabilitation institutions or at other actors because of the closure of the enterprises. Now that most of the offers have been reopened, it is still demanding for many to have close contact with treatment and to deal with different procedures for the protection of infection. In the revised national budget, Stortinget granted, inter alia, Seventy-five million. kr for the work of municipalities in relation to particularly vulnerable groups under the pandemic. This was part of the action package aimed at children and young people. In particular, it is important to ensure that activity and relief measures, which are currently closed or reduced, can return to the normal situation. It was also granted 400 million in the revised State budget in the context of the budgetary agreement. a package of measures for vulnerable elderly people. There are currently relatively few patients admitted to Norwegian hospitals with covid-19. We've had good intensive capacity. Health regions report that they have nearly normal operations and are in the process of taking in the waiting lists from in the spring. Hospitals have made a formidable effort to adapt to the new daily routines of infectious diseases, day-to-day operations and emergency planning. Therefore, they have plans to be able to accept many covid l9 patients on short notice if we were to get back into such a situation. The world has lacked knowledge of how the coronary virus affects the individual who is infected. After six months, we and other countries have gained some experience that we can build on to provide patients with a good treatment. As an example of new knowledge of the virus, the Public Health Institute has analysed several samples related to the bus journey in South Norway, which may be associated with about a hundred cases of infection. The virus belongs to a genetic subgroup and has unique mutations that we have not seen in Norway before. One of these mutations may increase the ability of the virus to infect cells and thus make the virus somewhat more contagious. We have known that serious ill patients in need of intensive treatment may be sensitised, but that the coronary virus can cause relatively young people with good health sensitivities such as weakness and fatigue for a long time to come may have come as a surprise to many. In a report of June 2020, the Medical Council for Rehabilitation in the South-East describes a patient course for rehabilitation of patients with covid-l9. During the spring and summer, a number of actions have been launched involving Norwegian research communities in order to gain new knowledge, both nationally, through the EU and through the World Health Organisation. In addition, the Norwegian Intensive Register has been expanded to become a pandemic register that includes all patients admitted to a covid-l9 hospital. The Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute have been commissioned to acquire knowledge of late effects after covid-l9 and to propose ways of disseminating this knowledge to the services and the population. Responsible staffing and access to staff with competence in intensive care, in particular intensive nurses, have been a major challenge, especially when health professionals have been infected or quarantined. Health enterprises have started training and competence development measures by their own employees and are developing a common national internal training programme for nurses in intensive care. Forty million. kr. is granted advanced simulation equipment for this training. The government has set up 100 new temporary posts for specialist doctors, LIS L posts, from the autumn of 2020, to ensure that primary and specialist health services have adequate access to doctors if the outbreak of infection becomes long-term. In the State budget, we have proposed 100 permanent LIS 1 positions. In a request decision, the Stortinget has asked the government to make concrete assessments of more openness when requesting the transparency of the overall patient figures for each health region in relation to covid-19. The Government will follow up its decision. Health undertakings both regionally and locally seek to provide information to the public related to covid-19, insofar as this can be done in the context of professional secrecy and privacy considerations. Health enterprises publish information on, inter alia: the number of hospitalised patients. Merpublicity is assessed but cannot be exercised if it would involve a breach of professional secrecy. In small patient groups, transparency may pose a risk of disclosing information about the course of treatment of identifiable patients. The risk of identification must be specifically assessed on a case-by-case basis and may result in no detailed information being disclosed. The introduction of vaccines against covid-19 is very important. Norway is a small market of limited interest to large market players and does not now have the production of vaccines for human use. Norway is dependent on cooperating with other countries in the same situation. We were early out with additional Norwegian support for the vaccine alliance CEPI, and we have worked actively to help several countries. In order to secure the population of Norway vaccine, we have chosen to cooperate with the EU. A large number of vaccine candidates are under development. We have promising data from some studies, but it is still unknown which vaccines might prove safe and effective. Norway wants early access to the vaccine. We therefore invest together with the EU in a portfolio of vaccine candidates that are broad enough to ensure that at least one of them is likely to succeed. The EU negotiates with a number of suppliers on early production and delivery of vaccines to Europe. It was not obvious that the acquisitions of vaccines by the EU should also be part of Norway. However, following extensive efforts at political and official level, both in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the political will of the EU and with the provisions of the EEA Agreement on the internal market as the main justification, Norway is now covered by the EU vaccine strategy. Close cooperation with the EU will enable us to ensure adequate access to vaccines for the population of Norway. Sweden has undertaken the task of reselling vaccines from the EU purchasing system to Norway. We therefore conclude agreements with the Swedish authorities on the resale of our pro rata share of EU vaccine doses under the same conditions as EU Member States. I am very pleased that Sweden has taken on such a role. The EU has as its objective the conclusion of agreements with different manufacturers for each of the most promising vaccine technologies. Of these, the Commission has published so far that it is negotiating with the companies BioNTech-Pfizer, CureVac and Moderna, in addition to agreements concluded with AstraZeneca, Janssen and Sanofi-GSK. The government wants one or more vaccines against covid-19 to be available as soon as possible. The development process is shortened by covering development costs and investing in production capacity before we know if the vaccine is approved. The European Medicines Agency shall apply rapid but appropriate authorisation procedures. Before entering into service in Norway, a vaccine must be authorised by the European Medicines Agency, which assumes that the vaccine meets strict requirements for its efficacy, safety and quality. However, an authorisation does not eliminate the risk of all adverse reactions. It is therefore important that we are open about possible side effects and monitor them along the way. The government has decided that a covid-l9 vaccine should be free of charge for the entire population. The State will also cover the costs of vaccination for municipalities and hospitals. The Government has also decided to organise vaccination against covid-19 as part of the national vaccination programme. This means, among other things: an obligation on municipalities to provide a vaccination offer to persons living or staying in the municipality. The Public Health Institute has been entrusted with the task of drawing up a national vaccination plan for covid-19. The mission also involves making recommendations on the order of priority. We hope to be able to start offering vaccines early in 2021, but the time of start-up will depend on when the pharmaceutical authorities have given their authorisation. Norway is also participating in the Covax purchasing system, which is a mechanism for ensuring global access to vaccines. Covax cooperation is established by the World Health Organisation, Gavi and CEPI, and is central to the government’s strategy to ensure international solidarity in the development and distribution of vaccines. During the whole corona crisis, the government has been concerned that anyone working in the health and care services should have the infectious agents they need. In March, we established a common purchasing system for infectious disease protection equipment to ensure that municipalities and hospitals had equipment in a demanding situation. The system that Health Directorate, Health South-East and Hospital Purchases HF established quickly came into place, and in an efficient way it has ensured good deliveries in a very challenging global situation characterised by high demand and scarcity. The scheme means that both municipalities and hospitals currently have relatively good stocks of infectious diseases equipment. In addition, in the autumn, we started the construction of a national emergency stock, which will ensure further preparedness in the current situation, but also potentially, in view of future crises. In the new year, this stock will have a volume corresponding to six months’ consumption of most categories of vector equipment. The establishment of this storage facility shall not replace the statutory emergency insurance for which the local health service and the specialist health service are themselves responsible. I would also like to consider measures to maintain a certain national production environment for vector equipment. On 23 September, the Directorate-General for Health sent a letter to the municipalities to order what they need for infectious disease protection equipment, minimum for the period January to August 2021. In the new year we return to normal procedures, where hospitals and municipalities themselves are responsible for the purchase of infectious diseases equipment. The national scheme has purchased equipment from both well-known and many new suppliers and largely picked it up directly from producing countries, since the national wholesalers had problems delivering the desired volume in our countries. Now national wholesalers have increased delivery capacity, and a relatively good stocking status has been built up in many municipalities and hospitals. That means that we can now come back to a more normal supply situation. By reopening the regular delivery routes for infectious equipment, the overall preparedness will be strengthened. This does not mean that the municipalities and hospitals are left to themselves. The State scheme was necessary in an exceptional situation, but it has its challenges, especially for municipalities that are used to getting their equipment from fixed suppliers. The regular wholesalers and suppliers say that they can now supply equipment again. That should be the main solution. At the same time, the national emergency storage facility may be there if supplies fail again or the infection is significantly different from the current infective situation and effect of measures. The Government proposes that municipalities will be compensated by the State for the necessary additional costs related to testing and infection protection equipment. The coronary apathy has affected both access to and demand for medicinal products, and it may take time for the global supply situation to be normalised. It is important that we still have a high level of drug preparedness. The Government has imposed restrictions on the marketing of exports, rationalisation and priority in order to ensure that the necessary medicinal products remain in Norway and can be distributed fairly as necessary. We have also built up national emergency stocks of medicinal products, and agreements have been concluded to significantly increase preparedness for important medicinal products for both primary and specialist healthcare. At the same time, it is examined how a permanent emergency stock for medicinal products can be set up. Norwegian pharmaceutical production can contribute to enhancing security of supply. The government is now considering the measures to be taken to improve security of supply in Norway. Vaccines will also be included in these assessments. We also purchased raw materials to produce some intensive medicines. The government works closely with other Nordic countries and with the EU to ensure access to medicines. We also look at the possibility of Nordic cooperation in the field of production. Norway shall direct its efforts to ensure that the global response to the coronary apathy is as effective as possible. Together with South Africa, Norway has been selected to lead the Council to ensure fair access to vaccines, medicines and test equipment. In June, the Prime Minister briefed on Norway’s dependence on cooperation with the EU to deal with the coronary situation. We're still going to be. Every week we attend EU meetings to share information on, among others. test criteria, vaccine development, preparedness and crisis support. I even attended the weekly meetings with the EU Health Ministers in spring and this summer to share experiences and to move on. The corona pandemic has highlighted the importance of cooperation with the EU for Norway. Six months inside the pandemic, we've learned a lot of important lessons. Norway is a small country with an open economy. This spring we also experienced how difficult it can be when international cooperation breaks down and global markets and supply chains collapse. Many countries have chosen to resort to protectionism, but the pandemic has clearly demonstrated that it is the wrong medicine. Effective management of such crises requires more international cooperation — not less. The situation in Norway remains different from that in many other countries. I'm glad. But we have to be constantly prepared for a situation of high infection rates. We still have lower infections than most other countries, and we're more open. But we have no guarantee that this will continue. We need to keep control, and we need to keep the infection down. The future infection situation depends on rapid local response and that each of us follows the rules: stay away, stay at home when we are ill, and keep our hands clean – and that we endure. So simple – and so difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e466	The President will now, according to Storting’s Rules of Procedure, § 45, open for a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e471	Thank you to the Council of State for the presentation. We follow along, but a statement of our protocols in this Chamber is actually both important and correct. The pandemic is not over, and many have now been on the watch for a long time. 2021 will probably also be a very, very different year. Fortunately, the municipalities that experienced increased infection in late summer and autumn managed it effectively. As a result of the government's decision to open up foreign travel during the summer, a situation arose, and it is clear that in retrospect, it is also necessary to ask why border test stations were put in place only after the summer. In the future, local adaptations and measures are important and avoid a polemics and a blackmail between individual municipalities and the Minister for Health. The epidemic is different in Oslo and in More and Romesdal, and we need different solutions. Oslo has responded effectively to the spread of infection that came, and we all hope now that the effects of the measures are seen. The same can be said of Fredrikstad and the Viken municipalities that also experienced the flowering of local infection. We have good control in Norway, and the best thing for our situation is that we have a common solidarity healthcare service that reaches everyone. We're a well-organized society. Everyone lives in a municipality and is entitled to the security of this hall. So there's still a lot of things we have to learn from. We need a plan for the rehabilitation of coronary patients. We have to avoid robbery of employees. And it's still such that our intensive capacity is low compared to other countries. We must continue to build that capacity, parts of it also explained to the Minister of Health. Many municipalities now have hospitals where heavy guard systems have provided additional protection against infection. It is very important that preparedness is maintained while normality is restored. The situation of infectious disease protection equipment has revealed a major weakness in preparedness. VG reported that only 15 pst. through the national purchasing system established in March. Here I am pleased that the Minister of Health said that the municipalities should not be left to themselves, but the reality was that the municipalities had to look for their own solutions and find their own suppliers. In an early phase, Norwegian suppliers were also invited. Unfortunately, several of them report back now that the major contracts or further cooperation have not been concluded. Here I think we all have to realize that Norwegian industrial partners will be an important part of the preparedness to secure us at the next pandemic. There's a lot to comment on from a long presentation. What is important now is that disease resulting from the measures is a disease that is not weighed and measured. The health authorities have said that we need to know more about which measures can be well justified by infectious diseases but which do much damage to our society. That's why I'm glad we've got a majority in favour of it becoming a reality. I am also pleased that the Minister of Health said that the decisions taken in the debate on the throne will apply from this week on. And then there will be many important discussions in the future about vaccines, about tests, about the bill for the different measures. Unfortunately, the State budget leaves the municipalities a large unsolved bill for the pandemic. Here I believe that the government must take the bill at least for its own testing strategy. It confirms to the Minister of Health that they will do so, and that will take care of the Storting. Unfortunately, vulnerable children have not been properly protected. The Children’s Ombudsman has expressed his concern, and several of these cases also need to find their solution through cases in Stortinget. In the end, I just want to say that robbery on employees is a challenge. The use of emergency equipment, so we were unfortunately abused, and I expect the government to take responsibility for the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e494	It's too early to hit the chest and proclaim that we managed, we won over the virus, and it's too early to say that we managed better than most other countries. It's also too early to say that someone knows how this virus works completely, and how it's being controlled. And when a vaccine will be ready, we can't know either. But it is good that the Minister of Health today states that when it comes, help should be for everyone, that a vaccine against covid-19 should be free for the whole population, and that vaccination should be organised as part of the national vaccination programme. What we know is that that's how far we've done well, and we understand better and better what's going on, and how we're going to behave to avoid big blooms. However, we need to be careful about the lack of action, one must ensure that measures that are put in place are felt sensible. We know that the Norwegian people loyally follow good infectious practices. Ipsos’ large reputational survey of Norwegian companies and businesses today shows that the confidence of the population in both the Department, Government, Directorate and the Institute of Public Health has never been higher. It shows that people trust the advice they receive and that the measures taken are necessary. We can't take that trust for granted, but this is an important lie message. We know that Norwegian municipalities have passed many tests and have decided to shut down several local outbreaks. We know that we have world-class health professionals who have fought every day to keep the epidemic in check. But the pandemic is not a fight between countries; it is a fight against the Korona – and we win it together, not just in Norway, but globally. Many deserve a thank-you, both those who work in health care, others who are conscientiously following the advice of the authorities, and all those who have had to change working days and family life because of a new situation. Others need help — help because they are lonely, or because they have lost their job, their client assignment, or their livelihood. However, we also need to find solutions for those who have had to wait longer for medical treatment because the hospital has changed the operation. In its presentation, the Council of State draws on many of the measures that have been implemented so far. In retrospect, it is not always easy to point to what has worked, or not worked, but what we see is that the sum of measures against the corona has worked. At the same time, the statement is a useful reminder that we're not done with this, and that what seemed extreme seven months ago is becoming a new normal. This is what we see in several industries, and the need for support is still present. But we also see it in healthcare: we hear about a lot of employees who have gone a long way and are tired. We should be grateful for that and have respect for it, but also deal with it in the best possible way in the future. We need more resources for healthcare. Fortunately, we have been doing that throughout the year, and it is more in the state budget. But the most important input is people, and we need more people who want to work as health professionals. We have to make sure that patients who have waited longer than they should get help as quickly as possible. We need to facilitate better care and contact with patients who experience isolation and solitude. We also have to make sure to strengthen preparedness in the event of a new bloom of corona or other events. This probably sums up the Minister of Health’s important tasks in the coming days. Even though it's been a long print so far, I guess we're not in the goal. No one can do anything, but everyone can do something. However, many of these days are expected. It would have been a long post if I had framed up everyone we depended on to succeed. The Council's presentation gives a good picture of the current situation and what has happened until now, but what happens in the course of the process, no one knows. Now we have to ensure the best possible in the continuation, and it is made safest by learning from those who are now harder hit by the pandemic, and listening to our professional expertise. In March’s presentation by the Minister of Health, clear communication was a topic. The information stream was inconclusive. There was a lot of news coming from several teams, the government's communication about the Korona had not sat down. As it is now the case that only the receiver can determine whether the message is clear enough. When there is such a large flow of information and news, even greater precision is required in delivery. It was then gratifying to wake up today to the news that the Health Directorate and the Institute of Public Health are rising sharply in the Ipsos assessment. Jan Behrens at Ipsos says: ‘The stories and messages of these agencies have been clear and unambiguous. They've been talking about things they presumptuously have things on, they haven't gone out with other recordings and they stick to their business." And on the other hand, «When this creates such effects in the measurement, I think we can interpret it to that point that they have done a good job, and that the Nordics have great confidence that what they stand for is right.» That's good news, because it's just trusting cooperation that can get us through this. Trust takes time to build up, but it's so easy to tear down. We're in the pandemic together, we have to deal with it together, and we have to solve it together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e524	Let me start by thanking the Minister of Health for a very thorough presentation. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister of Health at a time when we address many greetings and thank everyone who has stood by. He has been everywhere, late and early, for very many months. I can imagine that it's starting to clear up a little bit on the reserves. Having said that, yes, it is good that the public has high confidence in the health authorities through this pandemic, but at the same time we see an increasing debate on the measures. We also note an increasing general fatigue in the population in terms of the measures taken to prevent infection. It is therefore essential to make efforts to avoid measures that are perceived as unreasonable or that can create confrontations in the population. There is no doubt that the intervention measures we have had, and which we still have in part, have a major economic impact on the nation, but they also have great personal consequences for very, very many. We are constantly seeing new heartbreaking stories about people who have been in isolation for a very long time, and who experience this as more demanding. We see mental health challenges. There have also been consequences for very many other patient groups in need of treatment and surgery that have been exposed to this. Nor do we know at the moment how health cows have evolved through this situation. I want to challenge the health minister of the 400 million. kr, which was granted in the revised budget just to meet the loneliness of the elderly, which is one of the very vulnerable groups in this situation. What does that award look like? Can you get a little more insight into how this money has been used? I really hope that they have come to good use and deliver good results around the country. I also have a question about how the government is now assessing the season we're going into, the ordinary flu season. At least I hear more and more businesses worrying about it. Of course, it's related to the fact that the symptoms are very similar, but that doesn't necessarily mean that you've been detected covid-19, but that you just have an entirely ordinary flu. Many companies worry about this simply because it can lead to increased sick leave and again significant consequences for firms that have already been tried and tested. I think that is a problem we need to discuss more, not least in a situation where we are also discussing new measures and budgets. In conclusion, it is exciting to follow developments in vaccines. There are many of us who have received, if not knowledge, so at least a lot of information in the last few days after following President Trump's treatment for covid-19. We've heard about a lot of different medicines that work or possibly don't work. It might have been a perspective I missed in the presentation. Many people are concerned about what kind of drugs you can take. In a situation where there are different views in society about this with vaccination, it might be interesting to hear some reflections about it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e545	Thank you to the Council of State for a thorough statement. It is, as has been said, a serious crisis that the country has been in – the greatest closure since the Second World War – and I believe that this will change our society forever. Because there's one thing that's certain, is that when this crisis is over, the risk is very great for us to experience a new, corresponding pandemic. We know that, and that can happen. It is true, as has been said, that the government has handled the pandemic in a way that has had a great deal of excitement both in the Storing and in the people, and they have handled communication well. The Nordics end up talking about heavy social institutions in crisis, and it's very valuable, but the power that this gives, the trust that's shown, also makes the authorities commit themselves to making defensive choices. In spring, there was a discussion about what strategy one chose. The Public Health Institute said that the pandemic would last for two years. They didn't all trust it. The government has chosen a turn-down strategy. So he was changed, and now I read that it's called control strategy. Now this isn't important, but I think we're going to be surprised that this could be. The government provided an emergency plan for the reopening of the country, which the Minister of Health was in. My question today is whether the administration for reopening the country was present. What was unlikely to matter to be able to seize them was that one had increased testing capacity, could trace them infected, could isolate and quarantine them. Then I'm thinking about the infection tracking app, which has cost 45 million. kr for no use, and which led to one having to take him away. The Data Protection Authority put down a ban. This was a criticism that the government didn't take over, and it came out that one would not only use it for infection tracking, but also for monitoring at population level. Had a hearing of our objections, today, by the second wave of infection, we could have had a functioning infection tracking app that would have made it easier to find close contacts, with which municipalities have struggled incredibly much. It could go up to one week before the close contacts were found and alerted, which may have led to increased spread of infection, especially in the large municipalities. Test capacity was also a requirement to open the country more closely. It should be 5 pst. This turned out to be a desktop decision. That was said in the plans, but no one followed if the municipalities were actually ready for this during the summer. When the other wave of infection came, at the start of the study, etc., there were quite dramatic experiences in the municipalities where one did not get through on the phone, and one could stand for hours and days to get through. It could go four to six days before a test was taken, and then it might have been the same time to wait before a response was received. Clearly, this has contributed to the nonprevention of the other wave of infection that came into the country. Stand by, we'll talk about it before. We were in practice without national preparedness for infectious diseases devices, medicines, etc. What's good is that the crisis has taught us that we must now focus on national preparedness, storage, increased production, and that's what's going on. I also don't like the grievances that have existed between the councils and municipalities. Now, the municipalities have a bad economy, and the corona comes to the top. Then they need help, they don't need criticism. Governments were inside vulnerable groups, and that's good. When it comes to vaccines, I will show that the change in the genetic engineering law has been transmitted on a hearing. Many vaccines are based on GMOs, and the government proposes to allow clinical testing of covid-19 vaccines containing GMOs without carrying out an environmental risk assessment. This is something that Storting has to decide. Everyone wants a vaccine, but we also need to secure responsible and safe vaccines.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e566	I would like to join in thanking all those who are in the first line in the fight against the virus, and the municipalities who have gone ahead and managed to protect both their own population and the rest of the country through the cash and good management of the outbreaks we have had after the summer. It is also appropriate to thank the Minister of Health for his work. So that doesn't mean we don't have anything to deal with him, and I'm going to spend some time on it. Let me first say that it is wise that the government will make sure that the vaccine, when it arrives, becomes free. This is a pandemic that hits crooked and different socially. So that's also true. There may be reason to recall that the justification for doing so may be a justification for looking at vaccination policy more broadly. SV has proposed a vaccination programme for adults and risk groups that should be free of charge also more generally. We are now there, as we discussed a lot in ours, that what was an acute crisis has become a long-standing crisis, which we still do not see the end of. It also makes the discussion of different measures more marked by a certain wear and tear over time. It could happen, and we already see trends, greater disagreement when different considerations are to be weighed up against each other. The economic consequences are increasing. It's more arduous for the population to stand in this for a long time. It also means that we need to discuss how we ensure that we maintain legitimacy, motivation and cohesion in this situation. Then we have to avoid such things as we have seen some examples of recently, where the Minister of Health has been in trouble with municipalities, municipalities, for example. is in an economically difficult situation because the government has not compensated them enough – or this dispute that the Minister of Health, in my opinion, led the City Council in Oslo, which was completely unnecessary, and which the government should have avoided. It is true that, ultimately, policy assessments are taken when action is taken. Neither the government nor the municipalities will always be able to fully follow professional recommendations. They need to be weighed against other considerations – political assessments are being made. Then it is also necessary to discuss whether it is right that the government continues to have, as it has today, so unrestricted power in this area. There's a problem with the lack of transparency, debate, around this and also a potential problem, I think, that the government doesn't have to come to the Stortinge to get the majority of the most interventional measures. And when I say that, it's not really a criticism of the government, but a criticism of the law we have. That is why SV has invited Stortinget to discuss in the autumn whether we should amend the Code of Disease Protection, so that we can maintain the opportunity to act as quickly as today, but that particularly interventional measures are subsequently sent to Stortinget to be anchored in a majority here. I think it would be wise for us to deal with a long-term crisis. It is good that the Minister of Health is so clear that patients and residents should be able to receive visits from their closest friends. There's a lot left. There is no doubt that there are some in our population who pay a higher price than others for success in the fight against the pandemic: births and new families, isolated elderly, the most severely hit school quarantines now, and health workers in the crisis tour. We have also called for a crisis package for mental health care. There is a need for a national plan to rehabilitate covid-19 patients, and not least we have some municipalities that are more struggling with the economy than others. This has to be learned. One of them is the need for a greater degree of national control and to be more prepared for emergency storage and medical production. We see that almost everyone is asking for better national coordination. There I would encourage other parties to look at the SV's proposal to set up a state pharmaceutical company. It is necessary to endure, as the Minister of Health says. It's also necessary to stick together. That's why we need to avoid scenes like those we recently saw between the Minister of Health and the Municipality of Oslo. We also need to have a serious discussion about changing the IPD and moving powers from the government back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e585	Thank you to the Minister of Health for a good and comprehensive presentation, and thank you to everyone else who has been in this battle and this fight for Norwegian health – for saying so. When the government and the medical environment in these days reap well-deserved recognition of the way the coronary crisis has been managed, it is not only a quick and reliable response from Prime Minister and Minister of Health, but also a learning experience from many decades of information management and preparedness planning. Today’s public administration apparatus for the management of information crises as it appears today began with a health crisis in the aftermath of the Chernobyl accident in April 1986. The radioactive downfall of Norway in the days that followed revealed not only a knowledge crisis through the public dispute between the Health Directorate and the State Institute for Radiation Protection, but also a management crisis, as political leadership did not take the necessary action. Of course, it should not be forgotten that the country underwent a change of government at the same time, but the two health ministers involved in the case later agreed that this probably had no significance for the fundamental breakdown of authority. There was simply no culture at this point in time for the political leadership of the country to become involved in what could seem to be a pure health challenge. Minister of Health Tove Strand Gerhardsen has said that she does not remember that the Chernobyl accident was once mentioned when she took over Leif Arne Heløe as Minister of Health. Gudmund Hernes, who led the subsequent investigation work in 1986 and which ended in the NOU ‘Information crises’ and on which much of the public information activities are later based, has referred to the situation as an example of ‘pre-depreciation’. No one from the Prime Minister's office made any mention of the situation, allegedly in fear that the SMK could be overburdened. To this end, it may be added that the health director travelled to a three-week conference in Geneva. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Social Affairs openly disputed who was responsible for the quality of drinking water. The Health Directorate was at all unaware that the department had the main responsibility for health crises. Minister of Foreign Affairs Svenn Stray was the first from the government to comment on the Chernobyl accident – not because he had so much to announce, but simply because he was the first to be asked. According to measurements, trust in Norwegian authorities was only half of what it was in Sweden. It was at this time the funny idea that transparency in government would create distrust of the authorities, was abandoned. Now, of course, transparency in some situations can be expressed as disagreement between universities, as it did in 1986 and now in 2020. But what distinguishes the situation today from it 34 years ago is obvious the grip that was taken from the very first moment by the head of government and her government. Today, we almost assume that three government members are on the platform together with our professional health authorities. In 1986 this would be seen as an unnecessary accumulation of crisis. Then comes the announcement that an Ipsos reputational study gives the government and health authorities the best character. In addition, the crisis has contributed to the emergence of new dependants. It must be unique in the international context that a constituted vice-leader in a directorate in the midst of a crisis takes on the role of the nation's pet eggs. In the ‘Son is Norway’ programme, Harald Eia has described Norway as a nation characterized by a strong sense of independence: ‘I decide my own goals in life, I try to be myself rather than follow others, I see myself as an independent individual.’ De Gaulle often wondered that it was possible to control a country with 246 cheeses. I think he would meet a bigger challenge in Norway in 2020. But despite this independence, our national leadership has managed to get us moving. For a Left-Chooser, it may seem like a nightmare, but in this case, the continuous government update has created a new standard for crisis management without the need for transparency and knowledge-based choices. It is said that crises almost automatically lead to people cluttering about their leadership. The experience gained in 1986, when only four out of ten Nordics expressed confidence in the authorities, shows that the assumption must be nuanced at best. Today, this appears to be merely a poor consolation to the opposition. Trust doesn't come on a mountain, it must be deserved. I join the representative Jensen's tribute to the Minister of Health. It must have been exhausting and demanding to stand in this. Now there's light in the tunnel after all. We hope he endures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e604	First of all, thank you for your presentation. I would also suggest that the statement follow the Committee's budgetary procedure and that we include it in the Committee's work there. But again, thank you very much to the Minister of Health for a good presentation. I also join those who thank the Minister of Health for the job he has done. It is as Siv Jensen says: He has been high and low and very present. That, I think, has been absolutely essential – not least in terms of creating confidence between central authorities and the population in, among other things. to provide advice, to propose how to deal with this, not only on the part of the authorities, but also on the part of the population. The Minister of Health deserves a great thank you for that. I also want to thank local authorities for how they have managed this crisis. It is absolutely also worth lifting up those who have their work in the municipalities and who have to deal with the crisis there. We have seen that there have been outbreaks of infection in several municipalities, but I am impressed by how measures have been taken to reduce the infection. Of course, I would also like to thank those who are in the first line, our skilled health workers who have been on from day one. We know that there is a lot of wear in the health sector now because of covid-19. We must contribute to the endurance of our skilled health workers. The pandemic's not over, we might be in the middle of it. We're going to need our skilled health workers for a long time to come in view of this corona situation, so I hope you can dispose of our health workers in such a way that they endure. But again, a big thank you to you who do a fantastic job every single day. I also believe that there is reason to thank the Norwegian people, who are enduring, who help to keep the infection down through hard work and through cohesion. I fully agree with the representative Lysbakken that we should not just endure, we must also stick together. This applies not only to politics, but also to the population. Some have been said about vulnerable groups, and rightly so – vulnerable children who have experienced this very difficult situation. When we closed the schools, there was great concern for children growing up in homes where there are major challenges. We were also concerned about how the municipalities disposed of health workers, and it might not have been a good idea for health care professionals in connection with the school to be the ones to be used for infection detection. But this is learning that we've brought along, and that hopefully we'll deal with it better in the future. The focus has been on older people and on interventions that have led to high levels of solitude. The most painful stories are about those who have lost one of their loved ones in the hospital -- perhaps not because he died, for it was perhaps expected, but the thought that he died alone without his closest ones who could be with them. I hope that we will deal with this in a better way in the future, that you can have a little bit less intervention, which means that we will take care of the most vulnerable in a good and better way in the future. We're in the middle of a pandemic, the vaccine is not yet developed, so it requires us to endure, and that we stick together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e624	Crisiss often lead to increasing disparities, and government policies further increase these differences. Our welfare services are crucial to making society go around, but the crisis has shown many of us that services are vulnerable. Strengthening well-being will make us as a society more robust in coping with crises, but instead of strengthening, the government is committed to continuing the welfare of the ABE reform. So those who took the heaviest promises in our welfare are meeting with new cuts and demands for efficiency from the government. We also see that the government continues the cuts for the vulnerable among us by increasing the health care ratio for over one million people, while those who have the most of them get new tax cuts in gifts through cuts in wealth taxes. We know that Norway has a health shortage. We need more nurses and health professionals in the future and a promise that ensures more employees and a welfare offer that is accessible to everyone. Unfortunately, the government's crisis policy is pointing in the wrong direction, because it is true, as Bent Höie says, that no one knows which municipality is affected next time. In that case, municipalities will have to cover the real costs arising from the corona and thus avoid being cut off from other health services. So we see from the Sentio study, which is quite fresh, that eight out of ten municipalities have assessed, planned or implemented reductions in municipal services. This is due to a weak local economy and affects both those who do important work in well-being and all those who depend on welfare services. We see that cuts do not solve the crisis in the municipalities. Then we remember that when the crisis hit us, there was a danger of a shortage of drugs and infectious diseases in our country. Now the government is strengthening the national reserve stock. It's time, and it's important, especially at a time when the numbers of infections are increasing. Especially here in Oslo, health professionals and the general public need to know that enough infectious diseases equipment is available. Then we have to become less dependent on unsafe international supply lines and focus more on short-term solutions with more production of necessary equipment here too in Norway. We must have a policy that also ensures the well-being, job and income of all. Still, 200,000 people are unemployed, twice as many as before the crisis, but only in two weeks will people who are unemployed begin to fall out of the daycare system. When they reach the max period, this will affect tens of thousands of people and their families month by month in the future. 17,000 unemployed have been paid this year only because Red and the majority of the population were pushed through a lower income limit in order to receive daily benefits — especially in the case of many who have worked part-time. Now the government and the Progress Party are increasing that limit again, and then you fall out of the arrangements. The income hedge scheme for the apprentices will also disappear from 1 November, and we know that those who are freelancers get cut income by a quarter from 1 November. From the new year, the scheme falls completely to them. Since the right-hand side five years ago removed the holiday supplement for the unemployed, hundreds of thousands of people who have received the daily allowance in the current year will have a big back-up next summer. When July 2021 arrives, many families will have trouble paying for the electricity, paying rent or paying off the mortgage. Many people will then receive a large income tax because the government refuses to give those who have been unemployed holiday money for the day, which was until 2015. From the New Year the daily allowance level is cut for everyone who is entitled to this. This means that those who have lost their jobs, or are outlawed because the politicians have shut down entire industries, will receive an additional penalty from 1 January – a penalty signed by the bourgeois parties, which are unfair, unnecessary, and which will hit many families completely unearthed. Red wants to keep the increased daily allowance for all the unemployed with 80 pst. coverage for income up to NOK 300000. We need to strengthen the safety net, not weaken it. Unfortunately, the government is going the wrong way, but Red wants to go in a different direction from what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e647	I would like to start by saying that I am very grateful for the good cooperation we have with the Storting on the management of the pandemic, and I am pleased that the Storting expresses thanks to all those who are in the first line to deal with this. This is something we're going to be over time, we're going to do it together, and we're going to do what we can to keep control. There have been some specific questions that I would like to try to answer. The first question was from the representative, Siv Jensen, linked to the 400 million. kr included in the vulnerable elderly package of measures. Status there is that the $25 million. kr that was set aside for technology against loneliness has been paid out. In the case of grants for activity measures to counteract solitude, where there were 149 million. Total NOK 127.8 million. kr paid through the counties. There are two states that have not yet paid out these funds. It's Agder and Vestfold and Telemark. In terms of activity offers and visits, which we have put at 183 million. Another NOK 157 million. kr paid and there are the same counties remaining. The Dam Foundation, which manages 50 of these millions, has also started the disbursements of those funds, so we feel that those funds are distributed, disbursed and hopefully give good action out there already. It was also a question of the flu season. Obviously, that's something that also worries us. That is why, on the government side, we have taken measures to improve vaccination against seasonal flu by now being largely covered by the public. It's a low fraction of 50 kroner, which also comes under the self-employed. What's so great about the general measures we're doing – stay at home if we're sick, wash our hands, stay one meter away – is that they work against the flu as well. We see that in Australia, which is half a year ahead of us, the flu load has been significantly lower than it is in a normal year. Hopefully, this can help to, for example: more people can work in the healthcare system without influenza, because society is now more effective at protecting us from the infection. With regard to the issue of drugs that work, Norway has taken a leading role in managing the work through the World Health Organisation, called The Solidarity Trial, which involves many countries going out together and systematically testing established drugs against covid-19. It provides faster results related to acquiring knowledge in a more systematic way than if each country had done so separately. Fortunately, some positive results have been achieved, but there is reason to say that those results are relatively moderate and are perhaps about being able to increase the survival rate somewhat for the most ill patients who are on intensive treatment. They do not have an effect that makes them, for example: Until now could be an alternative to vaccine, or have such an effect that we can let the virus spread in society because we have a significantly different treatment now than we had in March. I very much agree with those who say that out of these experiences and once the Corona Commission has done its job, we will probably have learning points that mean that we will strengthen our national preparedness. As I have said, the government has already started work on building up national emergency storage facilities for protective equipment, anti-infection equipment, medicines, etc., which are now also to be considered as part of more permanent arrangements. However, I must warn against believing that the answer to this is only to strengthen national preparedness. National preparedness in such a situation will not last without our participation in international cooperation. It's absolutely crucial. Each country alone will not be able to have such a readiness alone, for example: in the case of access to medicinal products. We need international cooperation, and the importance of the EEA Agreement and EU cooperation that we have has become very clear to me during this crisis. The discussion of whether the law is right or not is also something I think we should do later, when we have received the recommendations of the Corona Commission. It was last updated as late as 2019, and it will not be wise to change our legal framework to deal with a crisis while we are in crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e668	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the presentation by the Minister of Health of the status of the work on the coronary apathy be forwarded to the Health and Care Committee for consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e684	On 8 November 2019, the Government appointed a sample to investigate the mispractice of the right of residence of citizens of the Union for sickness benefits, care allowances and redundancy benefits when staying in other EEA countries. The size was discussed on 15 March 2020 Innst. 168 S for 2019-2020, from the Control and Constitutional Committee. In this connection, it was announced that it would come back to Stortinget when the final report of the investigation committee was available. The committee’s investigation – NOW 2020: 9 – was handed over by the sample leader Finn Arnesen on 4 August 2020. I thank you for this opportunity to inform Stortinget about the investigation, and about how it is being followed up by the government. As a result of Nav's mispractice of the right of residence, many individuals have been wronged. Several decisions have been taken on curtailment, suspension or refusal of benefits, or claims for reimbursement addressed. In particular, it is serious that the relationship between the Law on Social Security and EEA law has not been assessed by either Nav, the Public Prosecutor’s Office or the courts in cases where people have been reported and convicted of social security fraud. At the same time, it is important to stress, as the sample also does, that it is up to the courts to decide the legal issues in the case. So we only get the final clarification when the courts have taken a decision on all relevant questions, but whatever the final outcome in the courts is, I believe that this case, through the report of the Committee of Inquiry, has revealed several shortcomings in the work on EEA matters in the field of social security. In the following presentation, I will go through the main findings and learning points that the sample has come up with, and how these are followed up by the government. I would also like to inform you about the status of the work on cleaning up the matter to those concerned and about the plans for further work on the matter. The government has taken – and continues to take – this matter very seriously. We clean up, and we learn from what has happened. The review committee has presented a number of important findings and learning points. These have value not only for this specific case but for Norway’s work on EEA matters in general. We have to use this insight to get out of this and make sure that history doesn't repeat itself. At the same time, the report of the sample appears to confirm the presentation made at the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee in January this year. The investigation committee sees the matter as a system failure and criticises all the actors involved. In the investigation, the sample concluded that Nav has the primary responsibility for misinterpretation and mispractice of the residence requirements of the population in the light of the EEA Agreement and the Social Security Regulation. At the same time, the sample stresses that the Ministry of Labour, Social Security, Public Prosecutors, lawyers, courts and academia also have a significant responsibility in each of their ways. The common denominator is in a lack of awareness and attention to the issue. The committee believes that the impact of EEA law on the systems of popular protection has been in the blind zone to almost all those involved. No one asked the necessary questions to discover that the rules on including care allowance, redundancy allowance and sick pay to other EEA countries were misinterpreted and applied. The committee was asked in the mandate to identify how the error could occur and how it could be carried out over such a long period of time. As I read the investigation, the main findings of the sample can be grouped into three categories: lack of attention and visibility of EEA law for weak EEA competence for weak control and communication; I'm going to say in the following something more about these areas. The committee considers that an important reason for the error is that the law on public health has not been adapted to the rules deriving from EEA law. The law was not amended in 1994, when Norway became a member of the EEA and the day-to-day social security regulation was incorporated into Norwegian law. The rules were passed on in 1997, when the current law on popular protection was passed. Nor were the rules changed in 2012, when the current social security regulation was incorporated into Norwegian law. The selection shows, among other things: the law does not specify that in a number of practical cases the rules on residence in Norway must be waived. Furthermore, in the investigation, the sample considers that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not had a tradition of describing the restrictions imposed by EEA law on the application of the rules of the Law on Social Security in the preparation of proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security. The way Nav interprets and practices the legislation for which they are responsible is shown in the etate circular. The committee believes that Nav’s understanding of law has been difficult to obtain in a circular. They believe that this may have helped to ensure that the mispractice was carried out over such a long time. Furthermore, the selection indicates that the erroneous legal opinion expressed in the circulars and in practice was not challenged by researchers or others who wrote about or taught about the social security benefits in question. The Committee is concerned about the need for better EEA competence at all stages. This applies to both the Nav department, the Social Security Court, the academic environments, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts and the legal profession. It is not sufficient either to have competence in the EEA or to have competence in social security. In order to be able to walk properly, knowledge of both is necessary. The EEA legal competence and interpretation of the EEA rules of the State of Employment and Welfare have been little part of the governance dialogue between the Ministry and the department. In the current case, this concerns both the formal governance dialogue and the technical dialogue on legal and regulatory developments. For this reason, the Ministry has not been able to capture the fact that Nav has practised the rules relating to the payment of benefits in other EEA countries. The EEA rules have not been on the agenda – no one has identified this as a risk area. The sample indicates that better communication is needed. This applies primarily internally in Nav, but also between the Nav, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the other actors, such as Social security and the Public Prosecutor's Office. An important point in the mandate of the sample was to assess whether practices also need to be reviewed before 1 June 2012. The reason for this is that the former social security regulation was replaced by a new regulation on that date. The former Regulation was not formulated in the same way and did not have a similar provision on the possibility of including benefits when staying in another EEA country. Therefore, a key question is whether the practice of mispractice relates only to the period following the inclusion of the new Regulation in Norwegian law, or whether – and, if so, to what extent – it extends all the way back to the time when Norway entered the EEA, on 1 January 1994. A single sample assumes that persons who had exercised the right to free movement of workers before 1 June 2012 or the right to freedom of establishment cannot be denied the benefits in question solely on the grounds that they were in another EEA country. Consequently, this group may also have been affected by the mispractice, in the view of the sample. In addition, a majority of the sample considers that persons who did not fall within these categories may also be entitled to receive social security benefits while staying in other EEA countries, by virtue of being recipients, in the light of the right to free movement of services. The majority of the sample assumes a legal understanding which implies that the mispractice has been in progress significantly longer than since 1 June 2012. This would mean that more people could have been affected than the part-examination presented in March. The minority of three shall not rule on the rights of recipients and shall indicate that this has to be settled by the courts. Moreover, the minority considers that there is no basis for concluding that Nav has had a systematic mistreatment before 1 June 2012 of persons who have exercised the right to free movement of workers or the right to freedom of establishment. However, they cannot rule out errors in individual cases. As underlined by this pulpit in March, and as the selection itself highlights, it is not the selection that determines what is current right. That task lies with the courts. In this respect, I mention that on 30 June 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Communities submitted 16 questions relating to the interpretation of both the current and the previous social security regulations, as part of the proceedings for one of the repeated criminal proceedings. Our task now is, in any case, to clean up and help clarify the people involved, and that the necessary improvement work is done as quickly as possible. When reading the survey, some of the things that make a strong impression are the description of the meeting of the people concerned with Nav and the legal system. They describe local Nav offices that provided little or no information. They describe overarching control bodies in Nav that made demands for stay in Norway different from the local Nav office. Furthermore, a person interviewed by the sample told of repeated requests to confess, both from Nav and from the prosecution authority, because it would give a milder judgment. Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Torbjørn Røe Isaksen held a meeting on 1 September with seven people who have been affected by the mispractice. These also reported difficulties in getting in touch with the hub and difficulties in getting information about their cases. In the light of these descriptions, I am pleased that, as a result of the meeting on 1 September, Nav has intensified its efforts to improve communication with the users concerned. A separate telephone number has also been established to be used by those concerned. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs also intends to organise a new meeting with users over the New Year. Based on the findings of the sample, they present a number of learning points that provide the basis for improvement work both in the ministry, in the underlying departments and among other actors involved. Among the recommendations of the majority of the sample, I would like to highlight the following: The competence of the EEA law needs to be strengthened at all stages. Where EEA rules are particularly relevant, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should ensure that this is directly stated by law. In the case of proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs must ensure that the pre-workers give a thorough account of the EEA legal implications of the application of the Act. Nav must ensure that issues of EEA law are an integral part of the drafting of circulars and the handling of individual cases. The interpretation and practice of EEA legal rules should be a risk factor in the administration of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Where the Social Security Court or the courts take a different legal view from the Nav, Nav must either change the practice or proceed with the judicial system, and the Social Security Court should have systems in place to respond when Nav does not comply with the principle of recognition. Nav needs to ensure that communication between departments and lines is good, so that changes in practice can quickly manifest themselves throughout the whole network, and Nav and Social Security should have a better dialogue. The prosecution authority must assume its own responsibility for assessing administrative notifications. The competence of the EEA General Courts needs to be strengthened and, according to the Selection Board, a culture needs to be developed in the courts to enable judges to identify issues of EEA law also in criminal matters. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is in the process of evaluating and following the recommendations of the sample for our sector. I would like to further explain this work, as well as the follow-up and handling of the matters where there has been an error. As part of the follow-up to the Committee of Inquiry, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs sent its inquiry to a wide-ranging hearing on 21 August. The deadline for delivering opinions was set at 21 September. Nearly 30 opinions have been received from stakeholder organisations, trade unions, public bodies, including the judiciary, and private individuals. The main impression after having read the feedback is that the hearing bodies consider that the investigation committee has provided a thorough investigation. The hearing opinions point to known issues that are addressed through follow-up work. Several hearing bodies support the overall recommendations of the panel on the visibility of EEA law and support measures to better identify issues of EEA law in laws, regulations, circulars and other legal sources. One of the hearing opinions asks questions about the methodology and arrangements of the review report and whether sufficient questions have been asked about, for example: The role of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the matter. Many of the hearing replies point to the need for increased competence of EEA law in administration, social security and the general courts. In this context, the Supreme Court points out that in December 2019 the Justice initiated internal work to ensure that the Supreme Court for the future on its own initiative is even better equipped to identify and address EEA legal issues. The Advocate General refers to the fact that the prosecutors and the police are reminded of the independent responsibility of the prosecution authority for all aspects of criminal proceedings and that EU/EEA legislation which is relevant to the issue of guilt and punishment in criminal matters needs to be better captured. Several hearing bodies support the recommendations of the panel on the importance of interaction within and between public entities in order to strengthen good communication and knowledge-sharing on EEA law issues. Feedback from the consultation shows that many actors are engaged in the follow-up work. We will also include views from the hearing in the follow-up to the review committee. The follow-up of the stakeholders has been – and is – our first priority. As mentioned above, on 30 June 2020, the Supreme Court sent a request to the EFTA Court for an interpretation opinion in a specifically reopened criminal case. The sittery lawyer has brought all relevant criminal cases to justice pending the decision of the Supreme Court. The Attorney General believes that there is a need for clarification of the legal status. This is expected to take some time. Nav’s assessment and handling of cases before 1 June 2012 will be initiated when the opinion of the EFTA Court is available and the Supreme Court has delivered a judgment in the case. Therefore, it may take time for some interested parties to obtain a final clarification. This is, of course, regrettable for those concerned, but it is important to have the EFTA Court’s judgment. Under the Criminal Procedures Act, persons who have been illegally prosecuted may be entitled to compensation. This means that persons who are acquitted from new legal proceedings will be able to apply for compensation following illegal criminal prosecution. Free legal advice will be provided in these cases without any need-to-be testing. Nav figures show that of the persons in this case complex who have received a recovery claim since 1 June 2012, 895 people have been given the decision to be converted. Among those affected by rejection, suspension or curtailment, 1495 people have been converted. Work was delayed by about five months due to the handling of the covid-19 pandemic. Work has been resumed after the summer break. In total, Nav has paid approx. 69 million. NOK and in addition, debt is extinguished at approximately SEK 55 million. kr. Nav is still working on reviewing its registers to identify whether more people might be affected. The Government has established a special legal aid measure. Those who wish to appeal against the new decisions or wish to bring an action for damages may avail themselves of free legal advice established in those cases. Complaints about replacement decisions are dealt with by a separate, newly created name. It also offers free legal advice. Several of the sample's learning points relating to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are already under way. A central measure in the follow-up to this case is that on 23 June 2020, the government set up a legislative committee, led by Professor Halvard Haukeland Fredriksen. The legislative committee shall review social security legislation and the relationship with international agreements relevant to social security coordination. Visualising the importance of international law in the field of social security is legally demanding. However, the legislative committee has been asked to complete its work by the summer of 2021. The law selection will help to make the law easier to understand, but we have to expect that the kiss in the field will still be complicated and require guidance and follow-up from Nav and others to be understood. It must be an ambition that EEA law-making should be clarified by the law, where this is particularly relevant. In the light of the legislative recommendations, the government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner. In addition, the Committee of Inquiry recommends that EEA law should be made clearer and more systematic in investigations and law-makers. I want the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to make more visible and clarify EEA legal assessments more systematically in both investigations, hearings and documents on the Stortinget. EEA competence must be continuously strengthened. The Ministry of Social Security, Nav and Social Security must have the necessary insight and resources in such a central area. In the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, more legal posts are so far sought to strengthen the department's capacity and competence to respond to EEA law issues. Nav is asked to explain how they will follow up findings and learning points from the report. Central follow-up points will be enhanced EEA competence and internal communication on legal issues. The work of the ETA on improvement measures will be followed up by the Ministry through the governance dialogue. In order to further strengthen expertise, the Ministry will also connect more closely at the academia and relevant research environments. Academia has an important role to play in communicating and educating others in the connection between Norwegian and international law. EEA competence must be so widespread that, in the future, we are constantly faced with changing national and international legislation, as it is a fact that EEA law is dynamic. The practice and understanding of the legislation will be modified as a result of decisions of the Social Security Court, Norwegian courts, EFTA and EU courts. I assume that in the future there will be increased attention on EEA law issues, and there will be an increase in the scope of decisions challenging current practices in different areas. As mentioned above, the Ministry has increased its legal capacity, inter alia: to follow legal developments, to assess the impact of new decisions and to assess the impact of changes in legislation on the EEA. The State of employment and welfare shall keep up-to-date with the relevant decisions. Decisions challenging current practices shall be considered for the purpose of changing practices or for the purposes of further legal proceedings. In order to reduce the risk of misinterpretation, it is essential that the various professional bodies speak well, and the procedures for formalising this need to be strengthened. Based on experience in this matter, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is now going through the governance dialogue with Nav and other underlying agencies. EEA legal assessments will be defined as an area of risk and will be part of the formal governance dialogue with Nav. The Ministry has sent a letter of assignment to the Employment and Welfare Directorate and the Social Security Court. Here the Ministry asks that the recommendations of the Examination Committee be followed up in an appropriate manner. The Employment and Welfare Directorate and the Social Security Court have been asked for an overall assessment of the findings and conclusions of the investigation. They have also been asked for a specific assessment of the learning points identified by the sample under their respective responsibilities. The Ministry will follow up on this in the governance dialogue in the future. In further work, we also take into account the comments of the Review Committee on resources, organisation and internal communication in Nav, to see how conditions can improve. This case has shown that there is a clear need for improvement in the implementation of EEA legislation in Norwegian law that is also relevant outside the social security area. The Prime Minister asked early for a review of how all departments implement EEA law. A review was also requested of how departments keep themselves informed about practices in underlying agencies. The work is coordinated by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The challenges in EEA work are complex and therefore need to be addressed by different types of action. That's the sum of a number of different actions to improve how we work on EEA issues. The aim is that Norway implements EEA law correctly, that the content of EEA law is clear to those who are to use it, that it is clear how EEA law relates to other Norwegian legislation, and that the public is correctly applying EEA law. The EEA Agreement has now worked for more than 25 years. During this period, cooperation has developed and the legislation incorporated into the EEA Agreement has become more comprehensive and complex. In addition, specific EEA law makes legislation difficult to access. This challenge is reinforced by the high level of regulation. At the same time, I would like to stress that the EEA Agreement has given Norwegian citizens rights that they would not have obtained under national law, by becoming part of a larger community through the agreement. This European Community has been and is essential for the Norwegian economy and well-being. An important part of the implementation in Norwegian law is to look at how to make the content of the rules easier to understand. Clear and good rules will contribute to compliance and good enforcement. This case raises major legal issues concerning legislative techniques and impact assessment when new legal acts are incorporated into Norwegian law. It is important for management to have sufficient awareness of these issues and to provide good tools for dealing with them. Accordingly, the ministries are now looking at the availability of EEA legislation, the procedures for consultation and translation of EEA legislation, the follow-up to case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the EFTA Court of Justice, coordination between departments and the need for EEA competence in the departments and in the administration. The recommendations of the review committee will be important premises for this further work. The review report states that much has gone wrong. The failure has hit many individuals and their families hard. The overall view, the necessary control questions, the cross-action and the critical opinions on the importance of EEA law in this matter have been absent. The fact that many have responsibility does not mean that responsibility is powdered. The legal certainty of individuals is fundamental in a democratic society. That's why we have a system where the number of terms, independent of each other, have to take care of the individual. When it fails in all terms, we have to recognize it. This does not mean that the responsibility is unvised or swept under the carpet. I can assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is fully aware of this matter. We have to learn from our mistakes, and we owe it to the Norwegian community to do this thoroughly and properly. In order to avoid similar mispractices in the future, we need to put in place a good and tidy regulatory framework, a strengthened EEA competence in administration and better ways of making the link between Norwegian and international law visible. In addition, critical issues need to be raised both within the administration and from other social institutions. An overall goal must be to regain confidence. It is important that people can have confidence that the legislation will be properly practiced in the future and that they can have confidence that it will be cleared up against those who have been affected. The citizens must and must be able to expect this from us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e842	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e847	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough presentation, a statement on a very serious matter. It is now almost one year since the population and political Norway have ever caught one of the worst scandals. It turned out that people who had travelled to other EEA countries while receiving sick pay, redundancy payments or care allowances had been convicted of fraud for years, forced to pay back large sums and – most of all – the hair traveler – ended up in prison on the wrong basis. Unfortunately, we now know the story too well. We've become acquainted with many of those who were hit, and we've witnessed a system that was against them it was really designed for. The announcement was first involved in this case on 5 November last year, when the then state councilman Anniken Hauglie made a presentation, which in turn led to a wide-ranging round of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I think it was shocking for everyone to get all the stories, but also to discover the extent and that the matter could and should have been discovered at an earlier time. The government put down, as Councillor Asheim said, a review committee, which ended up in a quite solid NOU, which was put forward on 4 August. The NOU confirms what the Control and Constitutional Committee came up with through its treatment, but is also better documented, since the sample got access to things we in the Stortinget did not have. Then we've all registered, as the Council of State was also concerned, that there's a disagreement about the legal basis and the EEA law assessment, and then we have to wait for the trial to take place in the courts. A question like most people in the country have asked, including the sample, is, how could this happen? Why wasn't things discovered? Through the previous treatment in Stortinget there were several things that pointed themselves out, and that the review committee has also fixed. The obvious thing is that there has not been an adaptation to EEA law, and here the prosecution authority and the courts have also failed. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has simply slept an hour and has not described the possible restrictions under EEA law. Then there's also in the NOU a culture described in Nav that I think is very serious. There has been no room to ask questions about established truths, and the questions that have been asked have not been raised. In addition, Nav has undergone several reorganisations and downskills, and there has been a lack of competence in the EEA. The sum of all this we know well: people have been hit hard. Could this have been discovered before? I think it is quite obvious that it could have been done. When the Social Security Court began to take notices that went against Nav from June 2017, it took enormous time, despite the fact that several Nav employees really started to press the red button, before things happened. We have read the e-mails sent by employees, where they are concerned about missing signals after they began to discover the matters of the Social Security Court. We've seen the passivity of the directorate, where you can't get anywhere. In several cases, several months go by from Nav reporting concerns until answers arrive. It is a rather long period from the start of the Social Security Court in June 2017, until August 2019, when people throughout this period are convicted, imprisoned and forced to pay back large sums. It's pretty incredible to me. What has also surprised me in this matter is the lack of communication between the various actors, where it seems that the department has not had any idea of what discussions have actually taken place. It testifies to a system that has actually been a little dysfunctional and has contributed to the fact that the injustice has not been discovered and cleaned up. So the question is, what can we learn from this case? The most important thing is that this never has to happen again. And it is quite obvious that EEA law needs to be followed up in a different way than what we are doing today, not just in this field, but in all fields. The Nav case is a social security scandal and legal scandals without equal. All that is wronged against, must get his life back. Harassment shall and must be rectified. Then we also have to look forward and build up a hub that actually works. Because it's not good as it is. We can't keep slimming an organization that can't take it. We can't take any more downboards. The people deserve a hub that exists for them, not one that suspects them when they ask for help. People should be confident that they will not be convicted on the wrong basis in this country, and in this case we can say that both the rule of law and the welfare state have failed. The government must now be conscious of its responsibility. So I think the whole Storting will be doing an important job in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e870	I also want to thank the Council of State for a thorough and good presentation. So it's been a year since the newsprint was marked by something that developed almost from day to day. It began with something that one wondered if was wrong, and then just grew and grew it. I think we were all a little bit aimless when we saw the extent of it. Following Hauglies' presentation, the Control and Constitutional Committee addressed it. When we dealt with this last time, we had a lot of questions. I guess we also felt when we gave the call and expressed that this had to be the first part of the treatment, that there were still many unanswered questions. We had a hearing in which political leadership over time failed to answer why it was as it was. It was very undecided, so we were left with great uncertainty when it came to where and how this error could occur. Now we've gained more knowledge. I record that the Council of State is clear on two points: those who are unduly affected by the misinterpretation will get their case corrected as quickly and fairly as possible. Much is done, and something remains. I think it's important to thank everyone who works in the Nav system, who's been reading things down, and who's going to follow this up from day to day. They've done a lot of work under a lot of pressure. The other Council of State is clear that the findings of the Committee of Inquiry are to be followed up. A lot is going on following up, and something has to come on, because the investigation committee has delivered a thorough and good report. Then there are some questions that still have to be settled through the courts. It is daunting to establish a collective failure in which few have asked questions, or at all directed the search light against the relationship between EEA rules and Norwegian law. It remains to be seen that, through changing governments, it has been managed equally, and that there is no political agenda or action against better knowledge on the basis of what has happened. Declaring this is not a disclaimer – on the contrary. What was decided by the Control and Constitutional Committee in the last setting is on hand. We are also looking at this report. The Committee shall now work on the basis of the report and the knowledge gained from the report of the sample. We're going to bring new knowledge. We'll see more about where it failed, and how it could happen. We're going to check out the learning points and how we can take them with us. We're going to go through the steps that the Council of State has outlined, and see how we can make sure that this is not happening again. We are not going to conclude today, but there is no doubt that EEA law will have to be given a different attention and follow-up when implemented in Norwegian legislation. Both the administration and we as politicians have a great task of ensuring that and re-establishing confidence in the right and proper exercise of our citizens' rights. Further policy developments in this area are to be addressed by the Scientific Committee, but the hope is that the Control and Constitutional Committee will be able to concentrate on identifying fundamental steps that need to be taken to ensure EEA law in Norwegian law. I feel that the Committee and the Storting have a common desire to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e887	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough account of an investigation that is incredibly good. I am also pleased that both the Prime Minister and the Council of State have been very clear about giving an excuse to those who have been affected by the biggest scandal in recent times. As many people have been involved, it is reading the stories of those who have been affected by this, strong reading, and they really deserve an apology from all over political Norway. For the Progress Party, it has always been important to have a full review of this matter. When the Storting in June dealt with the state council's statement that was held last year, we got a lot of criticism that we would neither go as far as promoting dates nor throwing state councils. I am very happy that we have been waiting for the full presentation. The review report also shows that waiting was important. I look forward to the judgment of the EFTA Court. That's how we're all scapegoats, if we can call it that. I think VG had a good summary on August 4th, when the review report came: “When the matter was narrow last year, many people said this should have been revealed too far. And that's true. But by whom? Here in Norway, everyone was involved.’ Everyone has failed. All governments have made mistakes since the introduction of EEA legislation. No later governments saw the problem. The social security right could have discovered it before. Researchers and specialists have made mistakes, and the Supreme Court has also had to endure criticism. It shows that it is difficult to find a scapegoat, which we are so often looking for, when we have all failed. What's important now is to be able to learn from the mistakes that have been made. With the system failure that has been – when people have been misjudged, put in prison, demanded a refund, refused benefits they are entitled to – it is Nav that gets worse. The lack of a culture of warning, the powdering of responsibilities and the unacceptable lack of activity show that it really needs to be cleaned up. I'm concerned that it's happening now. We have to be clear that it has to be cleaned up, and that you have to put in place replacements. We might not have imagined that the covid-19 epidemic would lead to more people waiting for this. There has been a feeling for those who have been affected by this. The advance party signal to the government is that now it has to be cleaned up. During the Korona epidemic, we were able to get the proceedings started quickly. It must also happen to those who have been affected here, so that they receive the compensation and upliftment they are entitled to. So the review also shows that there has to be a good deal in this whole field. When basic competence is lacking in EEA law, when the trust in Nav has to be restored, as the Council of State was in it, it is quite clear that there is a culture in Nav that needs to be changed. Hubs shall be there for those in need of help. It's not like people call Nav in vain. They do it because they need help. Then it's important that Nav is there to give them the good help. We have now received a good report from the Council of State. It is the responsibility of the Control and Constitutional Committee to deal with it. As the representative Harberg had in mind, the further formulation of the policy has to take place in the Trade Union Committee. But the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is going to go into this review and this presentation and look at what we can do to contribute to a better system later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e909	This case has appeared to us to be a government that is not what we want. We've seen a hub working towards the legal security of those who need the welfare systems most, a hub where the leadership doesn't know who in their own organisation is responsible. We've seen a department that seems more concerned with protecting the political views of the Council of State than with rectifying the murder of the judiciary. Paragraphs 11 to 3 of the People's Redemption Act explicitly state that there is a condition for redundancy payments that the member is staying in Norway. It is not in line with EEA Regulation 883/2004. The essence of this matter is that the promise as it is attached in this room is formulated incorrectly. The government has implemented EU law without changing its laws. Many have been convicted of violating a law that was wrong. The system of redundancy payments was introduced in 2010. During the same period, the Ministry worked to implement the new EU Regulation. No one has found evidence that the Ministry has assessed what the EU Regulation has been saying for the wrong legal paragraph. On 31 March 2017, the government presented a proposal to legislate Nav's practice of giving the right to work clearance while living abroad for up to four weeks a year, subject to the condition that the suspension would be approved in advance by Nav. This bill was contrary to EEA Regulation 883/2004. The regulation was incorporated into a regulation when the legislative proposal was presented. The regulation was not mentioned in the bill. The government then broke the obligation to disclose information to Stortinget. I miss the Minister taking a clear responsibility for the department's handling of this matter by Nav. The mistakes have had great consequences for individuals. People have been unjustly punished and convicted for the wrong department did. The fact that many are frames of the saga gives it its own dimension. The human dimension saw the cork department or Nav when the Social Security Court found the fault and wanted to bring the matter before the EFTA Court. It was more important to hide the extent of the malpractice than to contact the prosecution authorities to stop the criminal proceedings that were taking place. Once Norway has concluded an EEA agreement, our laws must have a clear content that makes the real legal state visible to everyone. This case has shown us that a lot needs to be corrected. The first thing to do now is clean up the wrong of those who are punished and convicted in a proper way. We need to change the wrong legislation. We need to ensure that the Stortinget is never again invited to adopt new legislative proposals contrary to EEA law. We must take responsibility for this across the political environment, the administration and the judiciary. I am in a living room – it is clear that this is complicated law. But has there been sufficient willingness to inform about the major disadvantages of the EEA agreement? Or has it been an accomplished will to conceal the great challenges that exist, and therefore not the will to enter into the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e924	The Social Security scandal shows us some of the worst with the Difference Norway that has grown up in recent years, that even legal certainty has become a classy good in this country. Merete Smith, Secretary-General of the Association of Lawyers, said well during Stortingen’s hearing on the matter: If there were business leaders with access to the best lawyers who had been hit, then probably the error had been discovered earlier. But business leaders were not the ones who were hit. They were sick people. People who couldn't work. People who needed help from Nav. The most important thing in this case is precisely the people who are affected by this injustice – the 75 who are innocently convicted of social security fraud, the about 4,000 people who are likely to be affected by misinterpretation, the one who was not visited by his sick sister abroad, the ones who have suffered financial ruin because of large repayment claims, or the grandfather who had to hide from his grandchildren that he was going to prison. The victims shall be given justice. It must be the most important thing. But for many, this scandal is not over. They're still waiting to be acquitted. They are still waiting for upliftment. We hear about telephone numbers that have been promised before. We hear about free justice, which is far less extensive than free legal aid. That's not good enough. We have now received the report of the Committee of Inquiry, and it shows a crushing sentence on class justice in Norway, but also on the government's handling of this scandal. The report makes it clear that the department and Nav are primarily responsible for the scandal. Clearly, if the government had acted earlier, the murder of innocent prisoners could have been prevented. And it shows that our criticism and our mistrust proposal against the then state council Hauglie was reasonable. But yet, despite how hard people have been hit, and in spite of all these serious revelations that have come along, we are left in a situation that is felt just as many claims are not the situation, that is, responsibility powdering. No one has taken the final responsibility for the scandal. And I think that, with respect to reporting, is not to take the victims in this matter seriously. If they get justice, this serious case should also have consequences for someone at the top. I will mention two findings in the report that should be important for further and later treatment. Firstly, the sample notes ‘that the efficiency measures taken have resulted in the directorate’s lack of professional and resource prerequisites in order to discharge the professional responsibilities assigned to it in a good manner.’ It is very recognizable from the examination of the control committee, where – at the point after the timeline – we still see the vulnerability of Nav, getting people to work and with the right skills leads to delays in discovering the faults. And it's serious when we know at the same time that it's been cut 400 million. kr in so-called efficiency cut in Nav since 2015. The sample then points out that in several critical crossroads in the department, when the matter was subsequently dealt with in winter and spring 2019, before the error was discovered, there was a politically justified refusal to take the consequences of what was discovered along the way. One example is that then Minister Hauglie, among others. said that this could go across government policies against so-called social security exports. It's in the report. There are some questions the review committee's report really does not answer that well. The Ministry has always, for example: said they knew what the right EEA understanding was. They just didn't know what was Nav's practice. Nevertheless, the same department proposed to legislate Nav's practice in 2017. How is that possible? For me, it is clear that the investigation committee has not followed all the tracks they lead, and that it is the Stortinget that must draw the political conclusions based on the investigation. That is why we support the fact that the matter should go to the Control Committee, that we must set out a new course for Nav, and that we must ensure that all the victims receive upliftment and justice. And it has to happen as quickly and efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e945	The Nav scandal is the largest collective system failure in Norway over time. This may have been happening all the time since 1994, and a total amount of money has been involved as the chief legislator. Almost all parties have been in government, and we all have a great responsibility to be humble. I would like to stress the seriousness of this case, where all three state powers, including magnificence, government and judiciary, have failed to take into account the primacy of decisions of EEA law over national law. This has resulted in individuals being unjustly sentenced to prison and, on a false basis, they have received payment claims and payment notes attached. The review report shows that we need better EEA competence at all levels of administration, academic environments, courts and lawyers. What makes the most impression in the review report is the descriptions of the people concerned's meeting with Nav and the judicial system. They were given inadequate information, different information from different Nav offices with which they were in contact. Some people wanted to get in touch with their own Nav office. It's a sad story of a system that has put the system in front of people. It is good that the government takes responsibility and takes this matter seriously. Now we have to look forward and make sure that something like this scandal never happens again. We have to do everything we can to make such a scandal never happen again. We need to strengthen EEA competence at all stages, review legislation and have a clean law. For the Social Liberal Left, it is absolutely essential that people who for a shorter or longer period depend on Nav's support should have the same freedom to benefit from the European Community as we do others. As a social security beneficiary, the right to cross borders should be equal to that of all others, as long as they do what they can and are required to return to work or be prepared for disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e956	The Nav scandal is Difference Norway at its worst. It is not by chance that the biggest legal scandals in Norway's history in peacetime hit the weakest of us, the most dependent on the community. For many years they have met with distrust and skepticism, with control and false demands for repayment, with legal cases and imprisonment. In Norway, unfortunately, it is in 2020 that we see your legal certainty related to how rich you are in power and money. The report is also a crushing judgment against the Norwegian court – over Nav, but also over the government. When I hear the Council of State for Education, which is now responsible for the Minister of Labour and thus the third Council of State for taking responsibility for this matter, I am even more strengthened in my concern that those responsible are not held accountable. There is a great responsibility on the government in this matter, much greater than what we now hear from the Council of State has the will to take. It is not just the formal responsibility in this matter. The committee leader, Arnesen, stated before the investigation report came, that they had found no basis to assume that this has been a deliberate policy. But it conflicts with the actual content of the report, with the state council Hauglie when she came to know the matter, saying that changing this illegal practice could be unfortunate in the light of the government platform's wording on social security exports. It conflicts with the desire for a rapid clarification from the directorate that the department could not argue well enough with political leadership, which wanted to limit social security exports. This is black on white and is based on what we already know, that for years the government has suspected people who have become ill and fallen out of an increasingly brutal working life. We also know that the government instructed Nav not to get a full overview and correct them as they became aware of the wrong practice in February 2019. Member of the Midthjell committee writes that the department is perceived as «depreciating responsibility» and that «too much of the responsibility for the mispractice which has had serious consequences for individuals in recent years is placed on Nav, regardless of overall responsibility». This problem goes far beyond that of EEA law. The scandal has shown that perspectives from users and employees, those dealing with matters, are not lifted to management, are not followed up. Therefore, Red Stortinget took part in asking the Ministry for a job in Nav to ensure that the first line was heard. Recently, the Council of State has confirmed that trade unions representing the employees of the municipal first line have not been included in this work. We have also been told that the working group is working with a mandate that has been snuffed in to EEA law and that it also has a short deadline. After hearing the State Council's statement, I'm concerned that this is symptomatic of how the scandal is followed up: some simple bounded learning points and finished it. But the Nav scandal is a systemic crisis, and much indicates that similar failures have occurred within other parts of Nav's responsibilities. Red would put the government at risk when we made a motion of censure against the government councilman Anniken Hauglie, first with only the voice of Red, before several red-green parties came after – until the government was able to sneak the councilman out the back door before the Stortinget went to hold Hauglie accountable. In our examination of this report, we will continue to work to ensure that it has the necessary consequences. Powerful persons must also be held responsible for a review of the whole Nav system and for measures to reverse developments. We in Red will do what we can to ensure that this process becomes the beginning of a general settlement with the government's suspicious line of work, which whips unemployed people and causes social security shame for the unemployed and sick people. We don't want any of that, and it should have a total mass taken up. We have to get in the head for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e980	Let me once again thank the Stortinget for having the opportunity to explain the main findings and the learning points the review committee has come up with, and for how these are now being followed up by the government. I share a wish expressed by many of the parties involved in this case, a desire for an early and clear interpretation by the EFTA Court and a clarification by the Supreme Court of the legal status of this complex of cases. Hopefully, this will help those who were reported and convicted to set a final sentence. This clarification must be in place if we are to ensure that the persons concerned are properly dealt with. However, for the professional actors in this case, it is not the case that a sentence is to be set. The ongoing work on cleaning up and implementing measures will continue. A central task in the coming period will be to continue working on what I see as the core of the sample’s investigation, namely the need for attention and visibility of the importance of EEA law for the social security area, the need for enhanced EEA competence and the need for enhanced governance and communication. The work on cleaning up was already well under way when the review report was handed over. The report has given us valuable contributions to the further work. In addition to the study committee's learning points, I would like to take with me the recordings and comments that have come to the hearing, as well as in the submissions here today. In June 2021 we will receive the investigation from the law commission that the government has set up. Hopefully, this investigation will provide us with further input into the work to counteract such misinterpretation and mispractice in the future. As I said in my presentation, a general goal must be to restore confidence. Citizens should and must be able to expect from us that legislation will be practiced in accordance with EEA law in the future, and that it will be cleared against those who have been affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e995	The debate on the presentation has thus been closed, and the President will propose that the Committee of Inquiry report on the EEA matter, NOU 2020: 9, be sent to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1011	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1018	No task is more important than getting people a job. Work is the key to the rest: own money, the sense of mastering and increasing dignity, owner-occupancy, good health, better integration and a social life. All of this will be easier if you have a job to do. Governments have announced in the autumn that we need an integration reform. She says straight away that the government has not been good enough to exploit the great potential of municipalities, businesses and volunteering, to qualify more people for a job. We in the Labour Party fully agree with that. Good integration is about high ambitions, better Norwegian education, early skills mapping and greater opportunities to get people to work. In short, the key to good integration is language learning and work. When we first replace the law of introduction with a whole new law, it's a shame that the level of ambition is not higher, and it's a shame that there's so little money left. At the same time, I would say that there are some improvements in the new law. I believe that more people will qualify for work now than with today's law, which has not worked well enough. But first of all, we should set a much more hairy goal than what the government is doing in this law. It must be a prerequisite that the new law contributes to sustainable work — a goal of early integration of immigrants by law is not binding enough. Secondly, we believe that increasing the commitment to formal competence for immigrants is an important development and essential for better language and social education. But it will cost more, and who will pay? The municipal law clearly states that new statutory tasks must be followed up with money for the municipalities. Nothing indicates that the Council of State has thought so far. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is obvious that municipalities are given the necessary means to qualify the participants in these courses as best they can, not to be taken from the free resources. Thirdly, the new law does not say anything about early action. The Labour Party proposes to conduct intensive courses in democracy, gender equality and Norwegian work for quota refugees before they arrive in Norway, as well as to carry out a thorough assessment of skills that can form the basis for jobs and a qualification cycle in the new law. Furthermore, we would like to have a good competence assessment for asylum seekers at the earliest opportunity, which could provide a basis for finding a proper municipality of residence. This way, we avoid wasting time and increasing the chance of successful integration. We also propose to increase the number of hours in the law with Norwegian education from 175 to 250 hours in reception. This will mean a lot for the individual's ability to learn Norwegian better and faster, and this is something we have spent money on already in previous budgets. Fourth, we want to focus more on the possibility of working practices in the new law. The Workers' Party proposes that a professional objective be set for the individual in the individual integration plan. And then we want to strengthen the fast track system in the intro programme and focus on Norwegian training in working life through programmes such as industry Norwegian and labour market Norwegian. Not least, we want to increase the use of vocational training models, such as the Helsfyr model and the Gloppen model, where students get a combination of school and work practices, so that language training becomes more effective. If we set high targets and start early, we can get better integration than today. Then we'll see that several newcomers are able to get permanent work and support themselves and their families throughout their lives. It requires the government to listen to our proposals and input and to promise the new law to a level that takes the integration seriously. With this, I address the Labour Party's proposals and the proposals we share with the Socialist Left. In addition, we want to support the loose proposals of the Centre Party today. I would also like to mention that we are not going to support the proposals of the Progress Party, both because some of them are protected in existing laws and regulations, and because some of it goes into the Chamber in other matters before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1039	The representative Siri Gåsemyr Staalese then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1044	With the law we adopt today, we round an important milestone for the integration work in Norway. By means of this legislative decision, we provide the necessary means to put important measures into practice – measures that will improve the opportunities for the new citizens coming to our country and measures that will benefit Norwegian society as a whole. Because here it's important contexts. Success in integration policy is one of the most important things we can achieve — and essential to continue with key values in the Norwegian model of society. The key concepts here are the fight against alienation and a society based on trust between citizens. The law we are discussing now represents in many ways the implementation of key elements of government policy in the field of integration – first through the ‘From Reception to Working Life’ in 2016, then the integration strategy ‘Inclusion through Knowledge’, which was put forward before Christmas in 2018, and thus through a new law of integration, which includes: important changes to the introduction programme will be brought about. The main line has always wanted to make the road from reception to working life as short as possible. It is through work and ability to provide self-sufficiency that we provide the best starting point for finding a place — in a new life in a new country. Good language skills and a good understanding of the Norwegian community also provide the best starting point for sustainable work. And just "durable" is a keyword here. Unfortunately, the research shows us that even though many immigrants come to work relatively quickly, a critical period emerges after a few years of ease to fall out again and not reach an ever tougher competition. Not least in times of decline when unemployment increases, as we have seen in the last year, this is the case. Two issues are particularly important here: one is that we take the time and resources to provide our new citizens with the formal skills of the labour market often, and the other is that the adaptation of the competences of immigrants is too much in line with what local business wants. The proposal that has been submitted addresses this very fact, and allows a run for the individual who has a permanent and long-term job is the goal. Early qualification, pre-hospital qualification, residence where job opportunities are greatest, individual training plans with clear objectives for language training and the right and duty of career guidance are markers that give a clear course to the professional life of Norway. In particular, there is reason to stress the ambitions of the law for language training. Good Norwegian knowledge is a key – not only to working life, but also to society in general. Clearly defined training objectives, an integration contract that specifies the mutual obligations of municipalities and participants and the statutory obligation to take final tests in Norwegian and social subjects provide a firm framework and a more targeted effort for language training. The Integration Act provides a clear framework for the work and space of municipalities in order to create a good offer for individual immigrants. It is very positive to meet Municipality-Norway when integration is on the agenda. I think most of us have learned that this work is being taken seriously, and that those working on it seem to have a meaningful everyday life. All credit to them, they're doing an incredibly important job. I hope this law provides a good framework for their work further, and that we will see many successful examples of good integration work in the years to come. With this I take up the suggestions on the right behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1063	The representative Olemic Thommess has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1068	Few, if any, immigrants in world history have been better organized in their new home country than immigrants get in Norway and in the West today. And let me be clear: the primary responsibility for integration lies with the individual immigrants. Immigration into a new country requires considerable self-esteem to learn languages, laws, social norms or what is expected in working life. In the historical context, immigrants to Norway are an extremely privileged group, and the offer of the Norwegian state and civil society contributes to facilitating integration is world-class. Therefore, if integration in Norway is not working well enough today, it may be difficult to achieve a lack of organisation or action on the part of the state or society. Bad integration results are, on the contrary, due to a lack of demands on the part of the state and politicians. The State lacks both the possibility of sanctions and the willingness to impose sanctions as a result of a lack of desire to integrate individual immigrants. In the long term, this could have serious consequences for individual immigrants, integration policies and society. The key factor in a successful integration policy is the number of immigrants over a given period of time. In all European countries, the greatest integration challenges in areas that have lived for many non-Western immigrants are too fast. Integration is a process that takes time, in some cases several generations. Integration has only been successful when the population of immigrants is slightly different from the rest of the population — for example, in the Netherlands. self-sufficiency rate, participation in employment, education, crime, language, child protection issues, etc. Unfortunately, we are far from that goal today, despite the fact that large resources are spent on integration work. Good integration is when you comply with and respect Norwegian laws, regulations and values, are self-sufficient and are an active part of society. Parallel societies which do not share the view of the majority society on freedom of religion or democracy, for example, do not constitute a positive diversity or a enriching society, but rather a fundamental challenge for society. When it comes to fundamental social values, the country has an obligation to demand and facilitate immigrants’ accommodation. And it would be directly counterproductive if governments were to facilitate the maintenance and dissemination of values that are in direct conflict with the pillars of Norwegian society. Unfortunately, the "Migration, Parenthood and Social Control" report of 2019 demonstrates that social control is also a major problem in Norway. To believe that a whole life in an authoritarian society is erased when you cross the borders of Norway is at best naive. Social control and pressure from friends and relatives in both the country of origin and the immigrant community in Norway can counteract integration. Therefore, it is important that the State contributes with clear frameworks and expectations. Serious breaches of basic Norwegian and Western values shall not be met with understanding or tolerance, but with penalties and condemnation. Meeting immigrants with lower expectations and demands than the rest of the population is discriminatory and racist and hinders integration. These are challenges that the Progress Party has pointed to for years, but neither the government, the Labour Party nor the Center Party has sufficiently addressed this. We have to make demands, take everyone seriously, regardless of skin color and religion, and make sure that we do not continue to push real problems under the carpet. In Sweden, the results of such a policy have led to a situation that is completely out of control. The Government's proposal for a new law on integration is a step in the right direction, but there is still a long way to go, and the Progress Party therefore has a wide range of proposals, which are absolutely necessary in addition. Among other things, we want to refuse municipalities with more than 15 pst. non-Western immigrants to settle new refugees. We want to cut into social benefits if the integration contract is not followed up, or parents or home children commit crime. We want to remove all rights to interpreters after seven years. We want to introduce mandatory language tests for all children at the age of four, and we also want to tighten up on citizenship and the criteria for it than it is today. Immigrants must meet with demands and respect, not be discriminated against with low expectations. If we are to avoid Swedish states, all citizens have to share a minimum of values around democracy, freedom of expression and women's rights. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1093	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1098	Today, we are dealing with an important law with a purpose that the Norwegian society has to succeed in. The aim of the law is to integrate immigrants early into Norwegian society and become economically independent. The law shall contribute to the provision of good Norwegian knowledge to immigrants, knowledge of Norwegian social life, formal qualifications and a lasting link with working life. Norwegian society is based on a high level of trust between people, high levels of labour participation, an obligation to contribute according to ability, good communities and small differences between people. If it's to characterize Norwegian society in the future as well, we have to succeed in integration. This proposal makes many important changes to the legislation. The centre party is pleased that there will be more individual adaptation for the individual in the introduction programme. The prerequisite for good integration is language and work. Immigrants have very different backgrounds; some are engineers, and some are illiterate. This means that training needs to be adapted to enable it to be effective, and it is important to monitor the competence of each immigrant. We have to make sure that people who are educated from their home country can build on it with additional skills in order to be able to run their profession here too in Norway. We miss a lot of good work because people don't get to use their skills. The central party believes that issues such as outdoor life, public health, lifelong learning and volunteering are important in the training. It is important for health, social networks and well-being – things that are important to all of us in order for us to be able to work and thrive in our own lives. Since we hardly get a majority for this proposal, I would like to signal that we are going to vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 6, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Another theme proposed by the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, is training on the Norwegian working life model and workers' rights. These are areas that may be difficult to figure out on your own, especially if you come from countries with completely different conditions. This knowledge may be important in order to shorten the path to work and also to avoid falling out after a short period of time. The center party is, as you know, occupied with scattered settlements, also for our new compatriots. In order to succeed in integration, we need to avoid resettlement in areas with already high levels of immigrant population. Experience from Europe can show us what problems can arise with high levels of immigration and poor integration over time, including in a security policy perspective. Outdoors, unemployment, large social disparities and segregation do great damage. We all have a responsibility for not getting conditions like this in Norway. It requires that those who come want to become part of the Norwegian community, and that time, resources, and attention be given to accepting them well. In order to achieve this, the Centre Party believes that we should preferably live in smaller municipalities that have scored well on integration. Good examples of that are Sunund and Vinje. It is important for integration that one gets to use the Norwegian language and become familiar with Norwegian culture, and then it is not appropriate to just associate with others from the home country. In order to succeed in integrating the municipalities, a good local economy is a fundamental prerequisite. Under this government, municipalities and county councils have a tighter economy with more demands and obligations and no free resources. About half of the municipalities were in deficit in 2019, and in particular in the last two to three years it has been terribly tight. Therefore, it is not appropriate for the Centre Party to impose tasks on municipalities that are not fully financed. It would also be negative for community integration if one were to get there that the settlement of refugees in a municipality leads to one having to cut into care for the elderly or drop out of a school. The centre party is therefore concerned that tasks to be added to municipalities and county municipalities must be fully financed. This applies both to tasks transferred from IMDI to the county councils and to other tasks. We also believe that employers' responsibility for minority counsellors in secondary school should be transferred to county municipalities and, of course, be fully financed. We have proposed this today. Finally, I would like briefly to comment on some of the proposals that are being put forward in the matter. The Progress Party is promoting a fifty-fifty proposal. Some are a collusion of proposals where many are already in force in Norwegian law, others are contrary to international law, and a third category is proposals that are lacking an investigation. Several of the proposals are not part of the Integration Act, but in other matters we are dealing with in the Committee. The centre party will therefore not be involved in individual proposals, but we are making our policy visible in comments. Finally, a small explanation of vote: we support the proposal No. 3 and No 4, from the Workers' Party and SV. I'd like to take up with it the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1119	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1124	There has been a long need to strengthen the introduction system. Reports from the National Audit Office, several NOUs and research reports from, among others. Fafo, which points out that you don't close the gap between what people can do and what the working life requires. Therefore, there is a need for strong changes in the introduction scheme, as proposed by SV. The government is proposing small improvements in the right direction, but it is far from an introduction system that will make even more progress. The proposal is not funded either, so if you think that you get more individual follow-up and differentiation in the municipalities, it is unfortunately an illusion. It is not possible to teach very many with different levels of competence in the same sentence. I also need to say that integration does not occur in a vacuum – it is not a one-way process, it is a two-way process. It's impossible to be integrated into a place where no one wants you, where you're bad at talking about you, where there's racism and discrimination. Where such negative attitudes are spread to immigrants, integration will be made difficult. Therefore, it is important that the government puts more emphasis on this, and among other things. stops funding blogs that emit just such negative attitudes in society. There is a need to ensure the possibility of longer-completed courses of competence in the introduction system. SV has made proposals about it, and it is because we think it is better that we ensure people complete their skills than that they risk doing so out of work. It is better with a few more years of social benefits within the education cycle than with the rest of life on social security. We believe that competence monitoring needs to be started much faster at reception — and at all receptions. All reception should be an integration reception and the host municipalities must offer and initiate a process of recognition of education. A lot of people have it, and a lot of people spend too much time making it all right and getting started. It is also much faster to connect those with education, to universities, universities, vocational schools, vocational training and the relevant professional environment. This is also a proposal for today. It is also important to increase Norwegian training in reception to 250 hours again. Now it's 70-75 pst. by those who are there, and that means that time in reception must be used much better than today. It is proposed by the government to introduce something they call an integration contract. SV believes there is only increased red tape. It's probably a paper. The aim is, of course, to be included in the integration plan, which is legal in Denmark. You even have to have more goals and more plans. It's completely unnecessary. They have also tried to do this, which shows that it has had no effect. In addition, SV believes that it must be possible for those over 67 years of age to have the right, but not the obligation, to participate in language and social education. We think that's important. In addition, we believe that the implementation of this should also be supervised by the State, as other activities are. It's not enough just to make sure that it happens, you also have to go in and look at the quality, because it's varied a lot. In addition to that, there is a proposal in the vote, where SV is a co-sponsor, saying that outdoor life and volunteering should be part of the content of the introduction programme. I just need to comment on it, because I think most of us see that we're at our best when we're doing outdoors and out doing volunteering. Then we meet in a much more equivalent and respectful way, and we talk to each other, greet and be gentle. It's a completely different way of acting than what we often do in other situations. That's why I think it's absolutely invaluable that we get it into as a fixed part of the introduction program. It's also a very important part of Norwegian culture. In addition, we are going to support the solution proposed by the Central Party, and I am promoting the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1146	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1151	Active participation in Norwegian society is the key to living a good and full life in Norway. This law represents an important change and is part of the comprehensive integration reform that the government has launched through its integration promise. The law on integration through education, education and work well sums up what is absolutely necessary to become a part of our society. Education, education and work are the key to good integration, and I want to commend the Minister of Knowledge and the Government for starting an important work that will open up our society to new countrymen. Coming to a foreign country and an unknown society is overwhelming. Many come to Norway with skills that were previously in demand and were able to contribute to society. The vast majority of those who come want to contribute here in Norway too, but there are demanding barriers to crossing. It can have a negative effect not only on its own ability to support itself and its financial resources, but may also have unfortunate psychological effects. Facilitating the best way to get the opportunity to penetrate into our society and show what is good for is the key to good integration. At the same time as providing new opportunities for training, education and work, the law also imposes requirements for participation and implementation. It should not be viewed as negative that we make clear demands on Norwegian knowledge of those to be integrated into Norway. Being able to speak is a prerequisite for success in Norway, and therefore we also make demands on the municipalities, who are responsible for providing newly arrived refugees with the Norwegian training, education and qualification they need. This is an important step on the road to integration reform, and I have great faith that it will strengthen integration in Norway. It is absolutely necessary to ensure inclusion and not least build up under a valuable mastery feeling that makes the meeting with a new world and a new society a good experience. We do not overlook the fact that the law imposes high standards on those to be integrated, and not least on the municipalities to follow them up, but it is quite right and absolutely necessary to ensure good integration, for the benefit of immigrants and not least for the benefit of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1166	The Christian People's Party has long wanted an integration policy with a more social profile. The Introduction Act is now repealed and the new Integration Act will now provide the new framework for future integration. With a new and more social profile, newcomers will be given a better introduction programme and better Norwegian training so that more immigrants can participate in the labour market and take care of themselves. Norway has become a more diverse and complex society in the last 50 years. Of the entire population of Norway, 4.4 pst. refugee background. Research has shown that the employment rates of refugees increase in the first few years after arrival in Norway, then fall five to ten years after arrival, which was also discussed by the representative Thommess. One of the main reasons for this is the gap between the competence of the labour market and the competence of many refugees. Therefore, the proposition points out that, in order to counteract the fall in employment rates, it is central to a more focused qualification. The introduction programme shall be more differentiated in order to give participants a programme of content and duration adapted to their background and objectives. We believe this in the Christian People's Party is essential to the social profile of the new law. We have seen this and have good experience with this from the schoolwork – adapted for training. We believe that this could help to make the measures more effective for the immigrant himself, and for the municipalities the immigrant lives in. Adapted training in the introduction programme is also thought to increase the sense of mastery of the immigrant himself and increase the growth of the municipalities. A large proportion of immigrants who are on the introduction programme do not seem to benefit enough from the programme. However, with a new law, all participants in the introduction programme are to take lifelong courses and parents are to take courses in parental guidance. Norwegian training shall also be enhanced. I am pleased that this government is making a new attempt to create a working framework for us all to benefit from the diversity of the complex society we enjoy being. The Christian People's Party has long wanted an integration policy with a more social profile, which I had in mind. We're also grateful for the voluntary commitment shown. Through both the organized and the unorganized work, we see next love in practice. A smile, a kind word and a helping hand mean a lot to all of us, not least to the lone minor asylum seekers, the families of children and the elderly immigrants. Adult training and other important actors mean a lot in the performing work, and I know several employees who put down a lot of effort, far beyond what is regulated by law. I would like to take this opportunity to say that the proposal for a new law on integration is a good one. But heart heat cannot be regulated by law. Thank you very much to all of you who share in making an important difference in the lives of individuals! We agree with this for the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1181	The representative Per Sverre Kvinlaug has then made clear the position of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1186	The introduction of the Introduction Act 17 years ago was a milestone in integration policy in Norway. Very good work has been done since then, and on average six out of ten of all those who have participated in the introduction programme have moved on to work or education. But the government has higher ambitions than that. Now there is a need for a greater integration reform. Proposals for new integration laws are an important part of this reform. The outbreak of covid-19 has led to high unemployment, and new arrivals are among those who will face major challenges of entering Norwegian employment in the future. An important reason for this is that there is a gap between the competences of the labour market demand and the competences of many adults of newly arrived immigrants. I suggest making the necessary changes, so that the introduction program more covers this gap. I also suggest several steps, so that more people can achieve the Norwegian skills that are considered to be a minimum among many employers. The aim of the law is to integrate immigrants early into Norwegian society and become economically independent. The law shall contribute to the provision of good Norwegian knowledge to immigrants, knowledge of Norwegian social life, formal qualifications and a lasting link with working life. The law shall also facilitate early knowledge of Norwegian language and social life for asylum seekers. The proposal for a new law sets out clearer requirements both for the municipalities responsible for the qualification of refugees and for the individual refugee. I propose to introduce a separate health requirement for the provision of local authorities in order to contribute to better quality. I also propose to introduce an integration contract to show the obligations of both the refugee and the municipality. All participants in the introduction programme shall undergo lifelong learning courses and parents shall undergo parental guidance courses. In the reform of the region, municipalities have been given greater responsibility in the field of integration. I want to regulate parts of this responsibility in the Integration Act. This applies, inter alia, to: the responsibility of the county for drawing up plans for the qualification of immigrants and the responsibility for recommending the number of refugees to be settled in each municipality in the county. I also propose that the refugees be assessed for competence before they are settled. It should help us to quickly gain knowledge of the competences and work experience of each individual. The mapping shall also contribute to the settlement in a municipality with relevant job or training offers and to the individual adaptation of the introduction programme to the needs of individuals. Once settled, they shall implement career guidance. It shall contribute to the ability of individuals to make informed choices about education and work. There have been few minimum requirements for the introduction programme, and municipalities have had a large scope for action. Nevertheless, we see that the standard in many municipalities has become a two-year programme for most, and the content of the programme has not been sufficiently adapted to the individual. I now propose that we introduce final targets and differentiated programme time. The duration of the programme shall be from three months to up to four years. The nature of the training and the final objective of the programme shall determine the programme time and the specific content. When it comes to the question of resources, which is mentioned in the debate earlier, of course, a differentiated offer will also provide a greater opportunity to differentiate how much resources are spent on individuals, so that those who need the most are those who are given the highest priority. One of the objectives of the reform is to provide more formal education through the introduction programme. For this reason, I suggest that participants who can complete secondary education within the framework of the programme may receive up to four years of programming. In particular, we will facilitate the provision of secondary education to young people under the age of 25 in the framework of the introduction programme. Refugees come to Norway with different backgrounds and experiences. I believe that those who have the prerequisites to get into work or education quickly should have the opportunity to do so, instead of staying in an introduction program longer than necessary. We also propose that training in Norwegian and social skills be strengthened and changed in order to signal a clear expectation of individuals to achieve good Norwegian skills. Overall, the Integration Act will contribute to the early integration of more immigrants and, in particular, refugees into Norwegian society, to a lasting relationship with the labour market and to economic autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1216	In the past, the Council of State has said that the government has not been good enough to exploit the large potential of municipalities, businesses and the voluntary nature to qualify more people for a job. Too many people go out of the introduction system without getting into work. The National Audit Board pointed out the same in its evaluation before Christmas 2019. The introduction programme of many municipalities does not contribute well enough to ensuring qualification for education and work on a sustainable basis, wrote the National Audit Office. How will the new law help to increase the number of permanent jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1221	That's really a pretty big question. I think my post instead gave answers to a lot of it. There are essentially two things we're doing now, which I think it's right and important to bet on. Firstly, it is important to focus on formal competence. A more individual arrangement of the introduction program is the most important thing we can do. Immigrants meet a programme that is much more adapted to their previous skills and needs, which will enable more people to succeed and more people to qualify either for study or for work. I also think it's important, as pointed out in the post, that we need to use more forces. It is not just the municipality, the county or the state that can ensure that the individual is integrated. It's also the individual himself. And then it's civil society -- both business and volunteering. An action we have in the starting pit now is what we call a Norwegian dew, which gives people the opportunity to buy courses from different providers, which we think can contribute to a greater diversity in the training offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1230	KS says in its consultation response that the municipalities and county councils will be charged extra costs when the law is now to be implemented. The Council of State and the Ministry have said that this should be resolved within the existing framework. Does the Council believe that increased quality will not lead to increased expenditure? And does the council think the municipalities themselves are going to find the money in their own pocket to be able to qualify more people for permanent work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1235	The support given to municipalities when receiving a refugee has proved to be a good compensation. It has also proved to be relatively attractive for many municipalities to receive more, because they have received a good compensation. We believe it has been right and important – because we saw too much over time that there were very many who stayed for a long time, for years, at reception. These included: while the Workers' Party was in government. Now we've had a considerable reduction in waiting time. Most people don't sit for very long at reception today. Most people live in a municipality, which is why we have given a good grant to the municipalities for that very reason. We've seen in the last few years that the municipalities have actually been overcompensated for that job. We believe that there is room for action to prioritise better quality. We also believe that a more differentiated offer does not necessarily have to cost more, but that the individual needs are more targeted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1240	The system of compulsory activity for young beneficiaries of social assistance has proved to be a success in many municipalities where it has been implemented in a thorough and good way. Being passive and accepting benefits is something that no one serves. It's a fact that very many people who come out of the introduction program don't get into permanent work, and they get out of work again if they get into work. I myself have spoken to a part that has been through a good system of activity duties that you had in the municipality of Drammen. They told me that the best help they had ever received from the municipality was a small dip behind to get out and not sit passively as recipients of benefits. What does the Council of State think about imposing more obligations — duty of activity — for those who are passive as recipients and that more targeted requirements should be imposed on refugees and asylum seekers to be settled in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1246	Now I'm a little unsure whether the issue is directed at the law of integration or whether it's about social benefits in general. Since the last one is not within my scope, I'm going to be a little careful to comment on it, but I can express myself on exactly this law. What I can say is that right here there is a very clear commitment. A core element here is that a contract is to be concluded between the individual and the municipality, which obliges both parties, both to participate, to be active and to provide a good quality offer. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1251	I think of this as a measure incorporated in the law of integration, as a targeted measure there, that – as the Progress Party proposes in this matter – an activity obligation for refugees who live outside the municipalities and are not at work. Then it has to change the law in this law. We believe it should have been included in this law because it turns out to have a good effect. Then the question of whether the government will take it further into the work of putting in place obligations for those who are going out of work and remain sitting as passive recipients of services and benefits without having anything sensible to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1258	As I said in my previous answer, in our proposal for an integration law, there are clear commitments both for the municipality and for the individual involved in the introduction programme. As far as other arrangements are concerned, my fundamental view is that the same rules should apply here for people who have a migrant background, who apply to others who live in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1263	We see that there is a lot of good integration work in both small and large municipalities; we also see that in many small municipalities this is a very successful integration work. They get 100 pst. by those who have completed the introduction programme. The advantage of small municipalities is that they have to talk to people who speak a different language than what they have from their home country, we see that volunteering is making an extra effort, and we see that the challenge of ghettophobia, as we call it, and social control is much less. There is also a lot of good work done in the large municipalities, but there are problems with recriminalism, social control, etc. What will the Council of State do to avoid strengthening the challenges in areas with high immigration density? Is it reasonable to live primarily in small municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1272	The government has a policy that says that the municipalities that have a very high proportion of immigrants are not the ones we're going to live most in, and we're trying to have a differentiated policy on housing. But settlement is really quite complex, because as is also said in the post here, there are some small municipalities that are very good at integration. Then there are other, larger municipalities that have accepted many immigrants over a long time, which are also very good at integration. I think it's very important that we build on those who are really good, the ones who succeed, the ones who get it. It can be small municipalities, but it can also be large municipalities. What we have also seen is that we should be even better off choosing a municipality of residence where the individual refugee is given the skills he has, either in education or in the labour market. There we have been shown that we have a good deal to go on, there we have to be much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1279	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1286	A few years ago, I attended a large women's event in one of the mosques here in Oslo. It made a big impression. The theme that evening was: My country, my responsibility. Here, hundreds of women, all of whom experienced that they had finished walking, as they said, were ready to contribute and become an active part of our society. We are ready, we will contribute, were the message. Today, we are dealing with a law that strengthens the ability of immigrants to participate in education, education and working life. I'm glad. I'm, like many others, particularly concerned about how we organize language and cultural education. Good Norwegian knowledge and education that qualify for work here in Norway are the key to being integrated, self-employed and able to participate and find their place in society. The new law makes clear demands on individuals, but also on the municipalities, which are responsible for providing Norwegian training, education and qualification. I am pleased that the government is now turning the demand for a certain number of hours of Norwegian training and rather focusing on the level of skills and knowledge that the individual must obtain. That's a wise approximation. I also know from my own experience that teaching immigrants in Norwegian requires both expertise and pedagogical knowledge. My first job when I was a graduate was in adult education in Kristiansand. There I taught Norwegian as a foreign language for immigrants. It taught me two things: This was definitely something other than teaching Norwegian mother tongues. Individually adapted training was given a new meaning. When someone in the class comes with a university background from their home country and others don't have a school background at all and struggles with reading and writing, then it's demanding and a big task to teach. It is therefore right and important that immigrants who are required to have language teaching meet a teacher who has the necessary professional and pedagogical skills. The requirement for pedagogical competence to correspond to at least 30 study points in Norwegian as second language is important. And of the approximately 3,500 teachers who teach after today's introductory law, approx. 50 pst. the need to enhance competence when this is required. Therefore, it is important that they receive the support and the offer they need. This is necessary – and that is also how we can put the framework for good integration and good training.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1306	I just want to make a little explanation of vote that I didn't get in my main post. We want to draw proposal No. 18 and support proposal No. 7, from the Right and Christian People's Party. We also support the proposal No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1313	Then it is made clear from the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1318	I actually asked for a line, but I didn't get it, so I'll take the word. I wish the Council of State every success in this work, and I have faith in the good intentions behind this proposal, and that this is a step in the right direction. However, I think the Council of State takes lightly on the need for this differentiation as the representative Tveiten Benestad was just up and explained, how important it is that there is enough space and resources to differentiate the arrangements. I think it's going to be a little bit too much to guess when you think it's going up between those who get educated and need a shorter race, and those who come with little competence and maybe also with a very traumatic background, because that's a reality. We're not talking about immigrants who, to put it that way, of free will are moving on in the world. Now we're talking about people who have experienced very serious situations in their lives, who are not at all near what someone in this room has experienced, of those who are present now, at least. I would like the Council of State to at least signal that she was willing to look at this, especially when the Council of State – so quite right – emphasises the importance of formal competence now. Because this means that those who have the longest way forward will need more than four years to reach the formal competences of today's work. It is also necessary to have a real, individual offer, which will give you the progress, the final goal and the integration plan that lies here. We can discuss whether we believe this contract has something for itself or not. We don't believe that, but we believe very much in the differentiation, which has been a major defect, and as the Riksrevision and countless reports have pointed out is a deficiency. Yes, they say it so strongly that we throw billions away on actions that are not good enough, and we have to stop that. So if they're going to achieve the goal in this area, there has to be room in the municipalities to differentiate this sufficiently, and there has to be, we think, greater space to be able to extend if it's useful to achieve the skills that are needed to get work, and to stand in the workplace, lasting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1331	Then the representative will listen to Andersen, for now the Council of State has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1337	Yes, President, we're going to have another "replicate round"! I understand very well the concern of the representative Karin Andersen, because there is no doubt that quality costs. And to differentiate, to target more, and also to set skills requirements for those who work there, as we do now, there's no doubt that it costs. The way we finance the introduction programme today is through the integration grant the municipalities get. It's a system that, as far as I have an overview of, has increased some in recent years. I think that is quite right, because it is a big commitment the municipalities are making by doing this integration work, but we have also seen that the municipalities this year, for example, have been somewhat overcompensated in relation to the efforts they put into it. The integration grant, how much money we spend on this, is what is adopted each year through the state budget, and it is quite possible, both for the government and the government, to propose an increase in it if you see that there is a need. We will obviously have to follow closely the needs of such a new law, and if we see that it becomes a very big need, we have to make an assessment of it, I think. As we've done it now, we have the integration grant, which gives municipalities good compensation for the job they do. In addition, we have also made a significant increase in the State budget for 2020-2021 to a number of other integration measures, which are also important, around the country. So I believe that by 2021 we are delivering a very strong commitment to integration. It is important because it costs money, but in a socio-economic perspective, it is obviously very profitable, both for individuals and for society, that immigrants get to work and that they have an opportunity to contribute to society. So this is a bet that the government has had over a long time, and that we're also going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1348	This is in my view not only about integration, but also, in reality, about what has gradually become necessary: assimilation. There are some basic values that require assimilation in order to avoid the creation of parallel societies, with norms and values that differ or are diametrically opposed to the pillars of society, as we see some areas of Oslo approaching. I believe that the values of which we must stand together and which we must expect and demand that immigrants also accept and join are equivalency between people, equality between sex, freedom of religion and the right to leave a religion, freedom of expression, individual freedom, secular law and democracy. I believe that parallel societies which do not share the view of the majority society on, for example, freedom of religion or democracy do not constitute a positive diversity or a enrichment, but are, however, a fundamental challenge for society. When it comes to fundamental social values, the state has an obligation to demand and facilitate assimilation. It would be directly counterproductive for governments to facilitate the maintenance and dissemination of values that conflict directly with the pillars on which Norwegian society is founded. Some groups of countries appear to differ negatively with particular conservative attitudes. 79 pst. of young people with Pakistani background and 71 pst. of young people with Somali background, parents never think they can accept sex before marriage. The 2019 Fafo Report on Migration, Parenthood and Social Control shows that migrants from Muslim countries are in a special position in the absence of valuable integration. We must soon start talking about this in the public debate on integration and immigration. There are some groups that unfortunately have negative results. That's where we have to put in the tools to help those who are born into these groups, so that we don't get the same problems in generations after generation. That is why we also need to know who the repeat offender is, their country background, and to know whether we have a youth problem in terms of recriminalism in Oslo, or whether we really have an integration problem. There are two different challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1361	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to be brief, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1366	I didn't think we were going to experience in 2020 that a big-time representative would go to the pulpit and speak for assimilation. Assimilation is not in line with human rights. Many of the values that lie in human rights are precisely those that we have fought for, such as equality and democracy. In particular in the field of equality, I do not believe that this representative, who was up here, has made a significant contribution through his work in Stortinget or otherwise. This is also about a debate on integration, where it is important not to stigmatise whole groups of people, as Carl I. Hagen did. He's known for that. It helps to make this more difficult to achieve in the future, both to integrate people into society and to join the liberal values on which all the parties – I think – are based, except for some representatives of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1373	I just want to thank and support Karin Andersen for her posts and really don't have much more to add. But I want to say that this case today is about a law that replaces an old law, and that means that it is a great piece of legislation that underlies how we should qualify newcomers for work. That is what we are discussing today. I think it's a pity that the Progress Party uses the pulpit and really the case preparations to put in its entire policy manifesto. Then we'll take the debates on the eight proposals that are coming, but I just want to support Karin Andersen's contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1380	The representative Karin Andersen did not like the use of the word ‘assimilation’ and believes it is contrary to human rights, and there we disagree. We stand together on a number of values, and I mentioned in my post the following values that are central to Norwegian society as a whole: equality between people, equality between sex, freedom of religion and the right to leave a religion, freedom of expression, individual freedom, secular rules of law and democracy. Almost all of these are quite contrary to Islam, and Karin Andersen knows that. I'm not trying to stigmatize any single groups, I was referring from a Fafo report that has established that there are immigrants with a special land background and special membership of religion that creates the challenges and problems. There are very many Muslims with whom there are no problems, and who pay their taxes, work and are really good people. But there are some people who don't want to be integrated, who are countering the integration of their children, who don't want to be part of the big community, there are unfortunately some Muslims. There are many people who don't, but there are some strong people who are involved in social control and create difficulties. They create difficulties for their own children, and that's why I think it's sad that we haven't had a general ban on hijab for girls under 18. Those who are authoritative have to use it, but it's putting their girls out of the big community and creating alienation for them in the schools around. It's actually in conflict with what I would call the usual – let's say – the care you should have for your children. There is a lack of care under child protection legislation, and then we have to intervene and prevent it, because we have to be a society where we are based on common values and not the values that are alien to us, as part of the Muslims do. Then we must be able to start talking about it and demand and expect those who have come to Norway voluntarily to adapt to Norwegian society. When I grew up, we learned a sentence: «When in Rome, do as the Romans» – when you're in Rome, do as the people who live there, adapt to those you have chosen to move to. It is a good doctrine, and it should be much clearer also from the Norwegian authorities in meeting with some immigrant groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1389	The first post from the representative Hagen thought we could go, but now we can't. If you break the responsibilities you have for your children, we have a child's protection to take care of it. If there are other laws and regulations you break, you have a police officer who takes care of it. We treat everyone the same in this society, not according to what faith or view of life you have. I can tell you that when I was in the job of councillor Melby right now, we had a lot of things from some Christian environments that were in the borderlands both in terms of child protection, in terms of freedom of faith and in terms of school duty. There are many religious groups moving on that line, and we as governments have to follow up. We do that through the law we have, through the institutions we have, and we have a responsibility to do that for both Christian sects, Muslim sects, Jewish sects, or what might be thought to hinder it. It's not related to one religion, and I can at least refer to that when I had those things on my table, there were more associated with Christian communities than were connected to Muslim communities, which largely use public schools, and thus do not end up so often in those challenges. I think it's important to have said from here that these challenges exist in all kinds of religious communities – yes, you can also see magnification representatives who report transitions to another party, where you get sectarian responses from those who belong to the party from which you go. Letting people have the free choice, letting people live their lives the way they want, it's going to fight the left for every single day as long as there's good fortune in us, but it also means that you have the full opportunity to choose the faith and the god you want to believe in. Having these challenges is not reserved for one belief.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1402	The representative, Jon Engen-Helgheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1407	I actually had problems understanding what was the disagreement in the last post here, because it's of course that all we're proposing, and as we're proposing in this case, is that there should be a child protection case, and we're going to connect the police and child protection where parents haven't taken their responsibility for, for example. to teach children born in Norway Norwegian before they begin school. There are several other parties that have been called for. Of course, it should apply to everyone regardless of religion. But that we point to a problem that concerns one religion, or that we have problems with other religions already, is not a good argument for continuing these problems. Then you have to put your foot down now. That's why the Progress Party is promoting a series of measures that will put an end to letting things like this go without sanctions and responses to the issues that we all see, but that are difficult for someone to talk about. There is no disagreement as to who this should apply – it should apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1412	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1429	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1436	For the Workers' Party, the individual's ability to get a job and to support himself and his family is the most important objective of integration policy. Sufficient Norwegian skills are often crucial to the chances of working life. It is also important to be able to follow up children’s schooling and leisure activities and participate in the community of which we are all part. In particular, language skills are a prerequisite for the full exercise of the democratic rights granted by Norwegian citizenship. We therefore believe that it is right to demand sufficient Norwegian skills in order to become a Norwegian citizen. For the Workers' Party it has been an important premise in the work of this Act that a stronger language requirement for Norwegian citizenship is accompanied by a significant strengthening of Norwegian training offered to newcomers through the introduction programme. We assume that the changes proposed in the new Integration Act will reinforce Norwegian education and a more individualised introduction programme. This will contribute to the fact that more than today will have a real opportunity to achieve level B1. It is also important to note that the normal residence of applicants for citizenship in Norway is seven years. In other words, if level B1 is not achieved during the introduction programme, better language skills are still to be acquired for several years. Nevertheless, like many hearing bodies, we have been concerned about the most vulnerable people with the worst chances of meeting an increased language requirement. We know, for example. that people who do not have any schooling from their home country and who may not have basic literacy skills may have problems in meeting their language requirements. The same could apply to people who have major health challenges or who suffer from post-traumatic stress disorders. These should not be excluded from the possibility of obtaining Norwegian citizenship because of circumstances beyond their own reach. It has therefore been important for us to provide for exemptions in the regulation for applicants who, for personal or health reasons, will not have a real opportunity to obtain B1. We believe that this exception takes account of this vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1447	Being a Norwegian citizen must in the first place also be an active participant in society. This applies to all of us – not just new citizens. Perhaps it can be said so strongly that, as citizens of liberal democracy, we have a citizen's duty to participate and contribute in an open and inclusive conversation on all the small and large issues that need to be addressed to us – that is, in the political debate up to an election or in the general working and social life. The participatory perspective is an important part of the maintenance of democracy and the continuation of a liberal society of high tolerance. Many of us who have had citizenship in the cradle could well think a little bit more through this very thing. Many have been able to take the freedoms we have gained for granted. From a historical and an international perspective, few people have had the opportunity to live in a society that gives as good a place to the individual as to ours. The language requirement that the government will make for citizenship reflects precisely this perspective — being a participant. The need for language skills must also be seen in the context of the increased demand and expectations of today's increasingly complex social and work life. In this context, the government's proposals appear appropriate and balanced. B1 on an oral basis, following the European framework for languages, has been proposed on the basis of the wish for Norwegian skills at a level that makes it possible to participate fully in our working and social life. With B1, according to the Norwegian curriculum and social skills for adult immigrants, you will be able to understand everyday speech and explain familiar topics from work, school, home and leisure. It shall be possible to explain simple subjects of personal interest and to participate unprepared in conversations in most of the everyday life situations. After seven years in Norway, and with the increased efforts in language training now being made by the government, this should be within the reach of learning for all between 18 and 67 years of age. For those with special considerations, for example, if you have health challenges, the government will also provide for exemptions through regulation. For those who have come to our country and whose objective is to achieve Norwegian citizenship, the proposed requirement will also be an inspiration for action and contribute to stronger integration in general. The language requirement should not be read as an attempt to build barriers, but rather be seen as a wish of the majority that those who come to us, and will be fully part of our community, are also wanted as active participants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1462	There is no doubt that we are lucky, we who are born in Norway and who get citizenship from the birth of. Getting a citizenship that immigrates to the nation shall hang high. In fact, you can live a full life in Norway with a different type of residence permit without citizenship. What is a big problem is when we grant too many citizenships to people who have a weaker connection with the kingdom. When wrong people get citizenship – and we have had cases to deal with this matter, where people with Norwegian citizenship have committed e.g. Terrorism – we have faced major problems that are very difficult to solve. The safest thing to do in any way is to be very restrictive about who is going to have a Norwegian citizenship. We also see that there are major differences between European countries as to the extent to which citizenship is granted. While Sweden is also the top of all statistics in this class, Norway is far above Denmark when it comes to granting citizenship to persons from outside the EU. There is also a much larger proportion of non-EU citizens applying for Norwegian citizenship. There's a reason to think a little bit about why it's got to be like this. Therefore, the Progress Party believes it is good to tighten up the language requirement, but there are much more restrictions that should have been made. The language requirement should also be strongly tightened. If you aim to become a Norwegian national, the Progress Party believes that there is something that should only be allocated to those who make an extraordinary effort to achieve it. Therefore, we want to set the language requirement to C1, which is a much higher level, and to be a citizen, the Progress Party believes that it must be expected to speak the language fluently and in an almost perfect way. We also want to raise the requirement for living to 10 years, and to have tests on general questions. Spot-free water must also be a requirement that is more stringent than that in the present day. And one of the most important requirements that we might want to introduce now is self-sufficiency for anyone applying for Norwegian citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1477	Would the representative like to comment on the proposal of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1482	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1487	The representative, Jon Engen-Helgheim, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1492	Norwegian citizenship must be high, and the conditions under which Norwegian citizenship is granted must also be able to contribute to the promotion of integration. Norwegian skills are important both for access to work and for participation in other areas of society, including: to follow-up of children’s education, to participate in leisure activities and to understand and influence the society in which they live. Norwegian skills are also a prerequisite for full use of the democratic rights of Norwegian citizenship. Several of the hearing bodies express scepticism that the requirement for skills in Norwegian is raised orally from levels A2 to B1 and fear that this will not be a realistic requirement for many, and in particular it will affect the most vulnerable. The centre party assumes that the changes currently addressed by the Stortinget in the proposal for an integration law will reinforce Norwegian education and help most people have a real chance to achieve level B1 after completion of the introduction programme. Early monitoring and integration plan for individuals are essential for success and good and close follow-up in the programme must be ensured. Relevant places of practice are also important for both language and job training. In addition, it is important to ensure that the most vulnerable persons, with the worst conditions in order to achieve such a requirement, are not excluded from the possibility of obtaining Norwegian citizenship because of circumstances beyond their own reach. The centre party therefore emphasises the importance of providing for derogations from the national regulation for applicants who, because of personal assumptions that they themselves do not have, must be exempted. There may be health reasons or other things that make them unable to achieve level B1. In the light of the amendments adopted in the Act on Integration, it is reasonable to impose requirements on applicants for Norwegian citizenship, while providing for derogations for persons who, for specific reasons, cannot be expected to comply with these requirements. The other proposals are widely agreed on in the Committee and I do not comment on them separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1507	SV does not support these legislative changes, and we are a little surprised that both the Left and the Right do not see the fundamental problem of linking language requirements to a fundamental right as citizenship. I hear there are more people up here in the pulpit talking about that you have to know yours and yours to participate in society in Norway and vote in elections. It's not like that for us who were born with our citizenship. Nothing is required at all, except that we have reached the age of 18. So it's very special when you even talk about having flawless habits to get such fundamental rights. Having a passport and citizenship is security and belonging, it is a responsibility for the country you are a national of, and it leads to cleanliness and security also internationally. We've done a lot of research through the hearing bodies to find out where the government is finding a professional basis for these demands, and we haven't found that. 107 out of 121 hearing bodies do not support the proposal, and it appears among other things. that the ministry cannot refer to research suggesting that level B1 requirements will lead to more people actually being able to meet this requirement. Yes, if this is then ‘appropriate’, as it is now said, what is the purpose? Is the intention that fewer be able to become citizens, and what is the benefit of that? Competence Norway’s consultation exercise points to a Danish study, which shows that uncertainty about stay and the future has a negative impact on the motivation for integration and language training and education. So it negatively affects what we're looking for. Competence Norway further refers to research that indicates that although the applicant is motivated and has a good time, some people are unable to cope with this level, even if they are not necessarily ill and traumatised. And they won't be able to get exemptions, even though they're very motivated and need that security, just like all of us. Measures to make citizenship more difficult to achieve and more inaccessible to those struggling with it are difficult to understand. We are therefore going to oppose the legislative changes that lie here, simply because we believe it is inappropriate to do this – not to take into account the principle of citizenship, but to allow this to become part of the general political discourse and rhetoric about integration. Even at that point, we believe that there is research evidence to say that this is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1520	Would the representative like to comment on the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1526	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1531	The representative Karin Andersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1536	In Europe, there is a growing trend in using language and skills tests to tighten immigration policy. The proposal we are discussing today is part of this trend when the requirement for oral skills to obtain Norwegian citizenship is raised from A2 to B1. Citizenship provides security and also links with the country in which they live, and it is necessary to be able to vote in the event of major elections. We believe it is fundamentally wrong to attach fundamental democratic rights to skills and knowledge. Groups that are previously disadvantaged, which are vulnerable and are little heard in our society, with this proposal will also risk rejecting voting rights, and that is what we believe to be a wrong trend. Language requirements will also be very different. Many immigrants are already at a very high level of language. For them, this city will not have any major problems, while for others, the new requirement will be very difficult to reach, and for some almost impossible. In particular, illiterates and immigrants with a low educational background face problems when learning Norwegian. Women are overrepresented among illiterates. Two thirds of all the world's illiterates are women. For them, it will be very difficult to reach the language requirement, not least if you come from a country where the language is not closely related to Norwegian – if you come from Latin America, Asia or African countries. The proposal is therefore, in our view, fundamentally problematic, but also poor, integration policy. It is claimed in the debate here that a stronger requirement is good integration because it comes together with a strengthening of Norwegian training. Here, too, the law of integration is promised as such a strengthening. But that's not right. The Integration Act introduces higher Norwegian targets that immigrants must reach and gives the municipality greater responsibility, but no contribution to strengthening the work of municipalities. As you know, nice intentions cost nothing, but are relatively little worth. The state asks the municipalities to take a greater part of the labour, while the state itself does less. Then the result is that, in sum, this weakens the municipality's requirement to be able to accept refugees and immigrants. This is therefore, in principle, problematic; it is poor integration policy, and it affects arbitrarily and unfairly. Therefore, the Red goes against these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1557	New Norwegian citizens should speak Norwegian at a level that allows people to function well in society and make use of the democratic rights granted by citizenship. Being able to speak Norwegian is important for participation in the labour market. Norwegian skills are also important in other areas of society, including: to follow up on children’s schooling and to become acquainted with neighbours and friends. Today, skills in Norwegian are required orally at level A2, which is a very elementary level. We suggest that this level should be raised to B2. Level B2 oral skills can be expressed easily and coherently on familiar topics that are often encountered in work, school and leisure, as well as dealing with unforeseen situations or problems that arise. The proposal to raise the demand for skills in Norwegian orally needs to be seen in the context of the work on full integration reform. There are important links in the work of the government within this field. While making demands on the individual, we will also make higher demands on the offer provided in the introduction programme and Norwegian training. Furthermore, the requirement of residence for Norwegian citizenship is mainly seven years. Persons who have not reached level B1 in Norwegian orally after the end of Norwegian training will have time to further develop their Norwegian skills in the period pending their application for citizenship. A number of non-governmental organisations offer Norwegian training, and Norwegian online training resources have also been developed. In the state budget for 2021, the Ministry of Knowledge proposes 25 million. kr to a Norwegian bet, which will serve as a complement to today’s offer. Many of the hearing bodies opposed to the proposal are concerned that persons covered by the Introduction Act who have little or no school background will not be able to become Norwegian nationals. This applies in particular to refugees and women. It has been important for the government to take into account people who are unable to achieve the level of language due to personal assumptions they are not on or for health reasons. We are in the process of designing a new exception, which in particular is to provide adults with little or no school backgrounds, older people and people with more general learning difficulties and cognitive challenges. Norway is not the only one to require language skills when applying for citizenship. Most EU countries demand this. The proposed skill level requirements are also not particularly high compared to those required in other countries. In Denmark, for example, level B2 and level B1 skills in Finland both orally and in writing. I believe that the rules on individualised training in the law of integration, the admission to take the test in Norwegian orally again and the rules on exemptions from the requirement of knowledge in Norwegian orally ensure that most of those who so desire will be able to obtain Norwegian citizenship once they have fulfilled the requirement of residence under the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1579	Vulnerable groups, such as: persons who lack schooling from their home country shall not be excluded from the possibility of obtaining Norwegian citizenship because of circumstances beyond their own reach. This was mentioned by the Council of State from the Chair. How does the Council of State feel that those who cannot meet the requirement by circumstances beyond their own reach will be able to achieve Norwegian citizenship? And will it accompany the money to the municipalities that will take decisions after the derogation the Council of State explained to in its statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1586	We have shared the same concern that the representative here is raising. It is important that we ensure that becoming a Norwegian citizen is a real opportunity for everyone, even if we lack important prerequisites to succeed in this – for example, if we are to be able to do so. have a great lack of schooling, or if learning difficulties make it a big obstacle, as I also mentioned in my post. This will mainly concern adults who are immigrants, older people and, where appropriate, those with other health challenges. We are now in the process of designing a derogation from the Norwegian oral skills requirement for people who are unable to achieve the level of language. Otherwise, when it comes to measures that municipalities can do to facilitate Norwegian education for these, I would rather refer to the debate we had instead of a more individualised introduction law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1593	Everyone agrees that language is important, and we want everyone to learn Norwegian well and understand the society they're part of. The question is just how best to do it, and how best to do it. I called for professional reasons for what the government is proposing now, and also for a fundamental reason in relation to the role of citizenship in a society. The fact that other countries have such requirements is not an argument in itself. Therefore, I wonder whether the Council of State can refer to some research or technical evidence that shows that this will lead to more Norwegian learners getting better and integrated. The research I've seen shows the opposite. Or is this just a kind of political stance in which to make citizenship less accessible?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1598	There is no doubt a dividing line – we see it very well in the hearing bodies – between those who believe it is a fundamental error to make demands at all, and those who believe it is legitimate to make demands, but who discuss what demands it is legitimate to make. I think it is quite possible to argue that it is fundamentally wrong, but I also think it is quite possible to argue that it is legitimate to make some demands. What's important, I think, is that there are requirements that are of a kind that are possible for everyone to achieve, and that in addition we have systems that ensure that people get what they need in order to have the opportunity to meet the requirements. Now we have just debated new law of integration, which I believe is the key to making such a claim related to citizenship. What we have also seen from experience from other countries is that for all, most of them are not this insurmountable requirement. These are requirements that most people can meet, and I don't think it is unreasonable to make those demands either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1607	If you think it is an advantage that those who have a permanent residence permit in Norway — as much as possible of them — are citizens with the duties and rights it entails, it will be a completely different approach to this issue than the government is currently taking. Yes, it is legitimate to make some demands, but what if it is not possible, but on the contrary, technical and research evidence that this can make it more difficult for more – not only the most disadvantaged and traumatized, but also some others who will be able to cope with this, without pointing to a particular reason? They can be as much at work as all of us. They can participate as much in society as all of us – be as active and positive participants in society sail if they don't meet this requirement. So what is the political rationale for shutting those people out of citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1613	It is clearly fully possible to be a very positive contributor in a society like Norway, without mastering Norwegian language. We have a lot of people working here, like this. speaks only English or another native language, which means that they can also use that language in their job and really don't need to learn Norwegian very much. I think it's obviously very positive for our society. The question is whether it is right that they should be granted citizenship and the rights conferred by it. You have e.g. not being able to follow up on the political debate if you do not have Norwegian skills at a certain level. Nor is it possible to have an overview of a good part of neither rights nor duties without skills in Norwegian and social skills at a certain level. I believe that the requirement we are making here is an affordable one. It's a requirement that says something about what we expect, what you actually need to be able to use all of these democratic rights that you actually get as a citizen of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1618	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1625	The change of reply now shows that in many ways we can see the two things from the municipal committee we are dealing with today, in one way or another. Language is the key to small and large communities, to being included, to well-being, to public health and to appetite. We need to strengthen the requirements of Norwegian orally to prevent outreach and to make it easier for more people to participate in the Norwegian community. After seven years in Norway, most people should be able to have a conversation on a familiar subject in connection with work, school and leisure in Norwegian. Without good Norwegian knowledge, immigrants can stand outside, not only outside the workplace, but also outside the neighborhood, the parent group, the sports team – yes, the good community in which we all participate, and which we take for granted and of course. We set higher language requirements for citizenship, but we also need to reform Norwegian education. The goal is not to set requirements, as one can get the impression when an SV belongs, but the goal is to get immigrants to learn Norwegian. Norway is not alone in setting language requirements, as it is called here today. It is done in both Denmark and Finland. There will be exceptions for people who are unable to achieve language requirements due to personal preferences or poor health. There may be particularly mature immigrants with little or no school background, or older people with general learning difficulties and challenges, who will be able to fill the conditions for exemption from language requirements legislation. So I feel that SV and Red's concerns are well taken care of in the matter. There is no research in this area. It is worth noting that there are studies that show that in the population as a whole, including among immigrants and their descendants, there is a broad consensus that it is quite legitimate and good that even within languages, one demands members of society who want to become Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1634	Today I kind of have a good day. It's been 35 years since I suggested for the first time in Stortinget that we should impose requirements to be able to Norwegian at a certain level in order to have citizenship. Then the Progress Party was all alone. I was called racist because I was so extreme that I demanded that you learn Norwegian before you became a Norwegian citizen. Now there is reason to congratulate the majority of the population for having achieved the same result 35 years later. It's nice. It's fine. This shows that the Progress Party is ahead of the other parties in a number of areas. I hope it doesn't take another 35 years until the bulk of the population joins up to what we have today as proposal No. 3, i.e. to require a declaration of loyalty to Norway and the Norwegian community. In the big debate on the impact of immigration, there have been some questions about the loyalty of some immigrants to Norwegian society, or whether loyalty is greater to the society and the country they have left. It has been discussed in particular with regard to participation in the armed forces and other professions. I therefore think it is appropriate that we go further in making demands on those who are going to become Norwegian citizens – not like SV and Red, who will give it away in a kind gesture to someone who has happened to come here. I think it's nice that we require a declaration that promises allegiance and loyalty to Norway and Norwegian society in order to have citizenship. Such a declaration shall at least contain a promise of compliance with Norwegian law and respect for our laws, regulations and values, on which Norwegian society is built. It could prevent the emergence of parallel societies. It will prevent young people from being placed outside the ordinary community because of their parents' education. Outdoors are something we have to fight. Now it's formed a new party that has it essentially. Then it is sad that, as far as I can see, the Advance Party is alone in trying to prevent alienation in many different areas, including: in the proposal for a declaration of loyalty and the promise to keep Norwegian values, which could help with that particular problem for some children born in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1643	I hear that there are now a lot of people who argue that the goal is to get immigrants to learn Norwegian. That is why I refer to the research reports that show that this can be inhibitory, not encouraging. The representative Trellevik can shake his head, but I expect that he is not a researcher in this field and has gone into all the experience that has been done with it. The current government has cut off Norwegian training on receipt, from 250 hours to 175 hours of Norwegian training. It was an outrageous thing to do. We believe it is very wrong that the first message you get when you get here is that you should learn less Norwegian. You have to learn a lot of Norwegian. You have to get that message and that opportunity very quickly. You should not be told to sit there and have nothing to do. On the contrary, there have been major shortcomings in this area, which means that many people are too late to start training in Norway, which is so important. It is an advantage for Norway that those who are going to be here permanently – then I am not talking about what the Council of State replied to me, namely, workers – have the opportunity to become citizens. I have not talked about work immigrants, I am talking about those who have been legally resident in Norway for protection reasons. There is no requirement for any of us to have the slightest indication of what is going on in politics, in order to have voting rights. We don't need to have read a single newspaper or a single book. That's not what's required of us. We only need to have an 18-year-old. I am also not against any requirement for citizenship, for example. residence, etc. – but to pass a knowledge test in order to obtain a civil right. It's a very great advantage also internationally that people have citizenship. There's an advantage between countries when people move on. Norway has also committed itself to working against state unemployment. I haven't seen so many actions for it. This is about fundamental and fundamental rights that a human being needs to have in order to have a safe life. There shouldn't be some kind of test to be allowed to have absolutely fundamental rights in that country where you're going to live for the rest of your life. I repeat that I am surprised that both the Right and the Left, liberal parties that have been defenders of this kind of fundamental rights, go as far as they do in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1658	I took the floor first to comment on something the representative said, I think she also said in the previous debate, namely that it has been cut in Norwegian training given in reception. The most important thing now is that people are now very much shorter in reception. Also before, when people took longer to receive, there were a lot of people who were having trouble using up all the hours they got with Norwegian training. So now that you have a right of 175 hours, it's not too small at all. On the contrary, very many do not spend the hours today, because they are on reception for only two to three months. One of the most important things this government has done for integration is to ensure that refugees are moved faster from reception to a municipality. If we're going to talk about being liberal parties to defend people's right to freedom, it's getting out of touch and being allowed to start their lives one of the most important things we can do. Therefore, I believe that that point is not relevant, neither in this context nor otherwise when we talk about the way this government has been committed to integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1665	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1684	It is said that history is a product of epidemics. Epidemics have created great tragedies, but have also created great shifts and great progress. Of course, one can discuss whether it was a step forward that Norway lost almost all its nobility during blackout, but at least it led to great social cohesion and more opportunities for many. The cholera taught us to separate drinking water and toilets, and so we can also say that it has affected the organization of civilization. In recent times, Spanish disease and tuberculosis have been the epidemics that have met us. Tuberculosis gave us the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, it gave us the nursing profession, it gave us not least the great champion Fredrikke Marie Qvam, and it gave us the hospital service that organized the being in Norway. The fight against these epidemics has also been marked by public information and hard work. My mother, who is now near 90, learned during the tuberculosis that if she was visiting someone and they spit on the floor, she would not eat the food she was served. She was supposed to say she was full. A few days ago, my 5-year-old granddaughter walked down the street with his grandmother and saw a man spitting on the street, and was deeply shocked. What has moved from my grandmother about not spitting on the floor, makes my grandnee feel that you should not spit on the street. Public information, attitudes and diligence that have been involved in the fight against these epidemics have helped to develop Norway as a nation. Now it's all true. We have to look at the news, we have to read a lot, we have to use apps, we have to log into the web, and we transmit information to very large numbers of people at the same time. That dissemination requires more and more. My mother says that she never saw her mother – my grandmother – neither read nor write at any time. But she was active in the Sanitation Association, and in the Sanitation Association they were told how to work against the tuberculosis. For example, they learned. Their children said not to eat where they spit on the floor or drank the same glass. Immigrants are a group where many do not have Norwegian language as their mother tongue, and they need their own and organized information in many areas. First of all, it is about language. There may be well-functioning people who have passed all the Norwegian tests we have run through them, but still professional language related to the fight against an epidemic can make it more difficult. There may be technological barriers — and also some of the Norwegian people who do not use technology, such as cannabis and cocaine. Smart phone, so often. Here in Oslo, for example, you have to. when taking a test, log in with bank ID online, which is a major obstacle for many to be able to take an active part in the fight against this virus. Many come from countries where information from the authorities is not trusted, and building up the trust that we have built through the coronary crisis – and we saw today figures of trust in those who manage the knowledge – applies to many who come from countries where you usually don't. Media usage is different. Many people use home media, which means that they do not receive the information provided from the marble hall with Norwegian government councils. We saw when the schools opened, that many people were skeptical about sending their children back to school and didn't take pride in the information that was related to that. So that's all the emotional support that many people need. Many experience loneliness and mental stress related to living in an epidemic. If you have recently arrived in Norway, for example: new-born female with more children will be perceived as a huge impact. And then it's explaining to people why we don't. I've talked to a lot of people who tell me about child-related conflicts that they're told not to hug grandpa, and grandpa who gets very offended that he doesn't get hugged and thinks the kids are scared grandfather, while the kids are really afraid to infect grandfather. We're going to navigate Nav in ever-new arrangements and ever-changing arrangements, and we can admit that can be difficult for us sitting in this room, keeping track of what new systems Nav establishes and who they are developing. And how are you going to be able to find out in all of that? Social gatherings are also subject to much uncertainty, and as many people find it difficult to deal with, and rules for when you can be home with a sick child, and when you can't be. As a big-time representative of Oslo, I have followed two organisations that have worked on this. It's City Councillors' corona assistance, who have trained 49 city councillors in 24 different languages to be available by phone to anyone who has challenges or problems. In August, they reported 750 documented conversations, that is, conversations from which a report was written. And only in September they had had contact with 117 families, and worked with some of them over time – to secure people, help them in the privacy, and help them with everything from understanding where you take a test, where you get answers to it. There are many older people in these populations who are also not large users of Norwegian media, and there is a lot of solitude. Both the City Mothers and the MiRA Centre say that it is important to work systematically to manage to reach everyone in such an epidemic. So my challenge to the Council of State, the seas if this was written at a different time and a lot has happened since that, is that we've seen how epidemics have contributed to making hard work that is both inclusive and inclusive, and that leads to people's information that helps change communities, too, for the better. At a time when we see that this is demanding, maybe we should use that chance to include everyone in the hard work it is to fight a virus – and that has to be controlled together. With regard to structure and information, hope must be that everyone feels that they are part of it and that they have the prerequisites and the ability to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1709	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mrs Skei Grande, for raising this issue. Although, as the representative himself said, this came at a time when the situation might be so slightly different, I think that the information needs are no less now. In fact, information is becoming more complex and more and more demanding, both to communicate and to deal with. So this isn't a problem we're done with, but something that we have to do, on the contrary, is also going to work on in the situation we're in right now. There is no doubt that, especially in an early phase of the pandemic, we have no reason to reach out to the entire population, especially to that part of the immigrant population that does not control Norwegian at such a level as to accept this complex information requires. There is also a good part in this group that lacks digital skills and has little knowledge of the public sector. Not everyone goes around and knows that information is found on the Public Health Institute's websites, for example. So the question was not necessarily about the information that was out there, was correct or understandable, but also whether it was possible to find for those who wanted to find it. If there's something this pandemic has taught us, it's probably that doing targeted information work is difficult, but important. Information shall not only be made and translated; it shall also reach the individual and be understood. It is of great importance in such a situation that we manage to obtain the correct information for the individual. The way we have organized it is that each sector is responsible for information about its own field of expertise for the whole population, but the covid-19 situation has shown us that it is a way to go before this is well integrated in all sectors. In some contexts, there is also a need for the use of interpreters in the provision of information orally. There is a high potential for more guidance and awareness-raising in the use of qualified public-sector interpreters. Several sectors can take initiatives to better understand the field of interpretation and to change their own practices sufficiently. At the same time, I would like to stress that the government launched a series of measures aimed at immigrants with limited Norwegian knowledge, when the pandemic came to Norway. Early on, I met with municipalities and non-governmental organisations to get an overview of where the information needs were greatest, and also to get to know the measures taken. I want to boast to many municipalities about the job they did in reaching out to many, just by walking around and knocking on doors and talking to people. Several sectoral authorities have also done a great deal of work translating information about covid-19 into different languages, organising websites and creating brochures, posters and videos in many languages. There are also many municipalities that have made a great effort with digital organisation and have run out of outreach activities. Many non-governmental organisations have also been able, with the job they do as usual, but also through additional grants, to assist with information provision and other measures for the immigrant population. In a chronicle in the Evening Post on 26 September, the researcher Jan-Paul Breek shows a project in Old Oslo, which has given good results to targeted information work against Norwegian Somalis. Ambassadors who have confidence and credibility in the Norwegian Somali environment have contributed to the dissemination of information from person to person on social media, which is one effective and good way to reach people. In this crisis, we have also seen something that I think is very pleasing, and which I think we should take with us in the future, and that is how many organisations have shown great ability to quickly change and implement targeted measures effectively. The cooperation we have had with non-governmental organisations has helped us to reach out with information. It has also been important to build trust between authorities and the immigrant population. We have also used minority counsellors in school, who have played an important role in the dissemination of information to children and young people. Many of them have been present digitally and on the telephone during school closures. The IMDI Directorate for Integration and Diversity has been given an extended coordination responsibility for measures targeting the immigrant population under the covid-19 pandemic. The IMDi Director shall chair a coordination group consisting of eight different public bodies. The reporting by this group shows that there is still an unmet need for targeted information actions. This may not particularly apply to the measures relating to viruses, distribution and what we can all do to avoid it, it is also about social and economic conditions. There is a great deal of evidence that the economic and social consequences of the pandemic are disproportionately affecting the immigrant population. We can see that, among other things. in unemployment rates, which for a number of groups have been sky-high, but also from concrete feedback from our partners in the voluntary sector. Many people have a very difficult economic situation. We've seen increased social distress and not least mental distress. We know that in situations where we have an extra weak labour market, it is challenging for groups with low formal qualifications to enter or return to work. Immigrants with low education, poor Norwegian skills and digital skills, low work experience from Norway and a small network are particularly vulnerable. The coordination group I mentioned earlier has provided its first assessment of future information needs and actions we should implement in the event of a future and long-term pandemic. The assessment shows that, among other things: is crucial with a comprehensive and systematic approach to the provision of information within each department. All sectors should have concrete plans to fulfil information responsibilities towards the whole population as part of their preparedness work. The provision of information is important to ensure that public services are made available to all, regardless of assumptions. This is not least important in the covid-19 situation, and it will contribute to confidence between the target groups and those disseminating information. We are still at an early stage of knowledge and experience acquisition related to the coronary situation. We need to consider the future needs for information and action carefully before drawing final conclusions. Knowledge acquisition that is underway, together with experience from civil society, various public sectors and the immigrant population themselves, will provide us with a good indication of how the pandemic affects the situation of immigrants, what is unmet information needs, and what action should be taken in the event of future crises. I think, like the representative Skei Grande, that in such a situation that we've been and are still in, we also learn things that we can apply in other situations. What I've definitely learned is that we have to use civil society in a much stronger way than we have done, that the public can't do this alone, and that non-governmental organisations can be an important bridge builder between the authorities and the population when we're going to provide information in a critical time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1743	I notice that when discussing issues where there are tough confrontations about integration, the hall is full, while it's probably a left-wing project to be concerned with integration in practice. Thank you so much for the Council of State's response, and thank you very much for what the Council of State said at the end. I think it's very important to be able to engage community and volunteer when you have such great efforts. I mentioned the MiRA Center and the City Mothers, which I have seen in my constituency. I've also noticed the information campaign deliberately targeting Old Oslo, where I live. Large posters were placed there in different living environments. I just have to say that I was a little overwhelm which living environments were chosen, because you don't have a lot of knowledge about who lives where in the different places. It's also important to have, if you're going to get good campaigns. The second part of this, which I want to challenge in the next round of questions, is that very many in these groups experience unemployment, because it's the first line service in our society. There have also been very important service jobs through the pandemic. This is the first line service we are talking about here – our taxi drivers, the service industry and cleaning. There are very important professions in the fight against a pandemic. So here it's important to work together and to integrate it into the whole process of thinking that we should deal with people with, for example. various Norwegian skills, but to be good, competent clean-up workers in society through a pandemic. The next thing I thought I was going to ask is this: what's interesting when society is exposed to something like that we've been exposed to this year is that medicine isn't always just virus-in – disease-out. There are many social things that affect how disease affects. So I hope to get an insurance from the government that when you evaluate the work on this, you will also look at why different groups are hit harder. They do not necessarily have lower levels of infection — one can have lower immunity in another way in a society. This has been seen in previous pandemics. The cholera may be easier to understand, but we also saw how the tuberculosis and other pandemics we've been exposed to, for various reasons, have affected socially differently. This is an important part of an evaluation, for example when we: See how many immigrants' backgrounds are currently in Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1754	Now it's been a long six months since we almost shut down Norway – without really knowing if that was the right thing to do, or what the consequences the measures we put in would have. What we saw was that we succeeded in many ways in stopping the spread of a dangerous virus. But we also saw that many of the measures we had had had very large social costs. What we now see from all over the world is that the measures taken to prevent the spread of the pandemic, which is really to protect many of the most vulnerable among us, are the same measures that affect the most vulnerable. It is those who have the lowest socio-economic status from before, who have low incomes, and those who have weak links to the labour market, who are hardest hit by the fact that we are shutting down society. There are very many of them that we have not been able to protect, either in Norway or in very many other countries. If this is a situation we need to be prepared for is going to happen at regular intervals, we have to look at just how we're going to do it, how we're going to manage to protect many groups that are vulnerable, without affecting other vulnerable groups. I think that'll be one of the most important things we have to learn from this situation. There have been a good deal of studies and research on what has happened. There's certainly a lot more to come. I think it's very important for the government, but also for this assembly, to take the time to evaluate both actions and how we can put it in a better and much more gentle way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1761	I would like to thank the representative of the Skei Grande for an important interpellation and the Council of State for a thorough response. It is very important that information on the infection situation, policies and measures reaches all citizens, including those who do not read newspapers every day and do not have smartphones. We get a lot of information, it's complex information, and the guidelines often change when the infection situation changes. It is difficult to deal with all citizens. I am very pleased that the government is working on improving information for the minority communities, and that it was specifically set at 10 million. to this end in our various projects in cooperation with organisations and civil society. I therefore hope that the Council of State will also respond to the 10 million. NOK that was granted in ours, has now been used, and that the projects are in progress and the money has been put to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1770	This interpellation was delivered at a different time by another major representative, but now we have at least been told throughout the debate which party it is that is concerned about these issues. I think we need some deep and proper evaluations of just these socio-cultural things, both medically and socially, given how these things turn out. We're going to meet epidemics in the future – we know that for sure – so we have to be able to make good systems for it. It is good to be able to read about the figures we have received today, which say that we are the best in Europe at infection rates, that we have succeeded, and that the Norwegian economy is not as damaged as many other European countries see that the economy is. It's also helping to raise everyone in the Norwegian community, and that's what the government needs to boast about leading us through. But one has to understand that to fight something like that, one has to have with all the sectors of society, and one has to have with all the people. Here the day I went to Greenland, which is among the densest populated areas in Oslo – I try to stay to the meter, it's not always as easy in Greenland, so the hand I use mouthbands – I tried to stick to the meter, but I pushed a little away from an older lady with a migrant background, who looked very ugly on me when I did it. Then I thought that she thought I was a super racist, as I walked a long round away – or did she understand why I chose to have that distance? It was an unpleasant feeling to have. I hope that all the information comes out to everyone, so that you don't have to have the unpleasant feeling, doesn't have to be the son who gets dismayed by his father because the children don't give a hug to his grandfather when he comes to visit, or don't have it so that you have neighbors that you're not quite sure have got the rules that the mayor has just sent out. If we're going to make it, everyone has to work together, but it's at least very important that we mobilise the third sector and also the immigrant population to participate in the virtues to which the government has invited.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1783	I want to start by saying that I am very happy with the round we have now had. I am also very pleased that with this we have the opportunity to show and recognise the job that non-governmental organisations have actually done in the crisis situation we have faced. As the representative asked for – do we know that some of the money we have given has actually gone into action? Yeah, we know a lot about that. We were quite early in devoting funds to non-governmental organisations that were going to help us in the very effort to reach out with information. At the beginning of April, a few weeks after the country shut down, we allocated money to some major organisations that have a long experience of working on this, for example. Red Cross and Caritas. And the reason we chose exactly that kind of organization was that we knew that they already had a number of measures that they could scale up, and thus reach out to a lot of people. We also had dialogue meetings with those organisations shortly afterwards, and we were given an explanation of the measures they had taken. Then it was very much about the measures that have been mentioned from the pulpit in this debate: being very focused, using ambassadors who have high confidence in certain groups of the population, simply doing very out-of-office activities, going from door to door and talking to people instead of trusting that every thing is taking the information over and getting it from the web. Some time later we announced a pot that smaller, non-governmental organisations could apply for, a pot of approx. Ten million. kr, if I remember correctly, which could be small and large sums to a very large number of non-governmental organisations that then had an opportunity to take action quickly. What I think was very important about that pot, was that a lot of different actors got the opportunity, and that gave us a very wide portfolio of measures. It will be very interesting when we now have to evaluate in retrospect what worked and not – that we can then look at who did the best of his work, and what it is important that we actually focus on in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1794	With that, the debate on substance is no. 9 o'clock. The majority is now taking a break in today's negotiations, and voting is ringing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1819	Case No. 1 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the first act of law. During the debate, Vetle Wang Soleim put forward a proposal for a legislative remark on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under Section II 4, the following heading is assumed to be added: § 4 Abbreviation of income Under III, the following second subparagraph, second sentence, is assumed to be added: The amendment to the second paragraph of Section 13 shall enter into force immediately.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1857	The vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1862	So let's do that again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1874	The legislative decision, with the opinion adopted, will be taken until the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e1883	Case No. 2 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the second time. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e9498	It's over A, B, C, and D.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e9671	Case No. 5 and 6 were statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e9683	A total of 71 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalese on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5-7, from Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No 8-11, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 12–64, from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Party of Advancement the proposals No 65 to 66 and 71, from Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 67 to 70, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party During the debate, proposal No. Eighteen. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–17, 19–24, 26–34, 36–62 and 64, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that asylum seekers arriving at the destination undergo a health check and routine vaccination during the first three days’. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking that it be compulsory for asylum seekers who are likely to stay and who meet the criteria to move to an integration centre to start the integration process’. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a cease-fire for refugees in all municipalities where non-Western immigrants represent more than 15 pst. by the population. This also applies to parts of municipalities’. Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that the county does not propose municipalities with more than 15 pst. non-Western immigrants on housing’; Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the municipalities of Oslo, Lørenskog, Drammen, Lillestrøm, Rällingen and Ullensaker will not settle any more refugees’. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking that municipalities with poor integration results and low labour market opportunities should not be allowed to settle refugees’. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the introduction programme provides good implementation in Norwegian laws and regulations, with a particular focus on areas where Norwegian laws and rules differ from the country of origin of the immigrant: Norway expects both women and men to be at work’. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for new criteria for what is defined as good results in the introduction system, based on the level of Norwegian skills after the end of the programme, work, job breaks and self-sufficiency’. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government requests that maternity leave from the induction course be limited to a maximum of 12 weeks, unless there are exceptional circumstances’. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to organise that from 12 weeks after birth mother can follow Norwegian training for a minimum of 1 to 2 days a week and that an individual arrangement be made’. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that those who do not come to work after the introduction programme are subject to an activity obligation, as some social assistance recipients have today. Non-compliances shall be curtailed in economic benefits’. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for concrete sanctions to be imposed by the government for the lack of follow-up to the introduction course, including consequences for residence permits and citizenship rights’. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that an advisory consultative function is introduced in the introduction system to detect abuses of medical messages, and the municipality should appoint a doctor with overall responsibility for absence’. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking that undocumented absences from the introduction programme lead to a greater reduction in the introduction benefit than at present’. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to carry out measurement indicators and to introduce an integration barometer that measures integration on the basis of several criteria and over time’. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an introductory reception for all transfer refugees’. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and implement a mechanism whereby transfer refugees sign contracts with Norwegian authorities before they come to Norway, where they accept to respect and comply with Norwegian laws, regulations and values. Further penalties are investigated for infringements of the contract, including the loss of the right to a permanent residence permit.’;» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that family reunification and asylum seekers sign a social contract before granting a residence permit’. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a proportionate cut in integration aid is implemented in the event of a breach of the integration contract’. Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that integration aid is cut by at least 10 pst. if a participant in the introduction programme over 25 years of age commits crime.’;» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that integration aid for participants under 25 who live with their parents is cut completely if they commit criminal acts and that their parents receive a 10 pst cut. If the participant under 25 does not live with the parents, the integration benefit is reduced by at least 10 pst’. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that teachers in both Norwegian and social knowledge are consistently and well aware of and share basic Norwegian values such as democracy, women’s rights, equality, LHBTI rights, religious freedom and freedom to renounce religion’. Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of all rights to interpret services after seven years of residence in Norway. The need for exemptions in criminal matters and where life and health are concerned should be assessed’. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to remove the mother tongue training for immigrants at school and kindergartens’. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asking for compulsory language testing of all children at the age of 4 to be carried out in order to detect the absence of language development and to enable action to be taken’. Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make it clear that it is the responsibility of parents to ensure that the children have the necessary Norwegian knowledge at school when they are born and raised in Norway and that neglect of this responsibility is defined as a care failure and followed up by child protection’. Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Norwegian knowledge is required at B2 level for a permanent residence permit’. Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking for asylum seekers and refugees to be able to support themselves in order to be able to live in a municipality of their choice’. Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a ceiling on total public cash transfers to ensure participation and integration. This ceiling must be lower than that which the family could draw from income in the ordinary working life.» Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government asks that reference persons for family immigration have not received social assistance, qualification aid or Nav housing support in the last three years’. Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that migrant workers who are outside the labour market and receive public benefits meet with the obligation of activity’. Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that non-Norwegian citizens lose public benefits in the event of a stay abroad of more than two months’. Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government is asking for prior professional participation in order to receive transitional assistance and to ensure that the activity requirement is increased from 50 to 80 pst’. Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government is asking that children not taken by their parents for health checks be visited at home to ensure that health checks are carried out’. Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asking for health control to include a full body test to detect any sexual mutilation, abuse or assault’. Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that, in case of suspicion of social control, police and child protection are linked for investigations’. Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the establishment of a central police body to combat only honour and social control’. Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that knowledge of the culture of honor and honor becomes part of the education of the police, child protection, school and health sectors’. Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government is asking that parents who send children abroad against their will be penalised and deprived of the right to care for their own children’. Proposal No. 54 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that in cases where temporary residence permits are issued to children against their will, the residence permit shall be withdrawn». Proposal No. 55 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that, in cases where parents with a permanent residence permit send children abroad against their will, the retirement period for citizenship is set at zero». Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government asks that parents who send children for longer stays abroad to prevent integration should be deprived of the child’s pension and benefits should be reimbursed from the day the children left Norway’. Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce provisions allowing the child’s passport to be withdrawn in the event of a risk of expulsion against the child’s will’. Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that schools which do not report to child protection when children travel for longer stays abroad are fined’. Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that parents of children who do not attend school after holidays must be notified of the protection of children by the schools. A written warning must be sent from the schools to the Child Protection Service within one week, unless the absence is approved by the school.’» Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a ban on children going to primary school, for example in connection with the framework. School staff are also covered by this prohibition’. Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce an objective responsibility for parents to prevent sexual mutilation of their own children’. Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that child protection always assesses the adoption of care for girls exposed to genital mutilation’. Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that sexual mutilation is regarded as serious violence against children in criminal law’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e9972	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25, 35 and 63, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a rapid track for the examination of applications for recognition of foreign education’. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to remove the upper age limit for training in Norwegian and social skills under the Integration Act’. Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that health professionals and other public servants are obliged to notify police and child protection in the event of a suspicion of sexual mutilation’. Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10001	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 68 and 69, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the start of the qualification process can be completed within the introduction programme and that the legislation is adapted to ensure the necessary flexibility in terms of length’. Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] The plan shall state the reasons for which labour or training elements have been selected and how they will strengthen the individual's ability to participate in the professional life. The plan shall specify the reciprocal obligations of the municipality and the participant and the long-term objectives of the participant». The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10027	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that NOCUT has the primary responsibility for the development of methods to be used to monitor the competence of refugees, as well as for the training of personnel required to carry out the competence monitoring’. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] The integration plan shall also include the professional objectives of the participant. The professional objective is set on the basis of the implementation of competence monitoring and career guidance. The plan shall state the reasons for which labour or training elements have been selected and how they will strengthen the individual's ability to participate in the professional life. The municipality determines the content of the integration plan if there is disagreement between the municipality and the individual. The plan shall be assessed on a regular basis and in the event of a significant change in the life situation of the participant. Participants in the introduction programme shall have a single integration plan for participation in the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10060	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the introduction of a pilot project of distance learning in Norwegian in the country from which transfer refugees are taken’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10077	There is a vote on proposal No. 71, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the municipalities are covered by the additional expenditure resulting from the proposals for changes to the Integration Act, including funds for tasks transferred from the IMDI to the county municipalities.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10094	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate closer cooperation between adult training and work practices, including increasing the use and removal of barriers to the establishment of vocational training models such as the Helsfyr- og Gloppen model and developing this for more subjects’. The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10900	Alternatively, the first sentence of the first subparagraph of A § 1 and proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] The aim of the law is to integrate immigrants early into the Norwegian community, get permanent work and become economical self-employed».
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10917	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section 6 and the proposal No. 67, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] The Directorate for Integration and Diversity shall identify the competence of transfer refugees before entering Norway. Transmigration means a person who has received refugee status, cf. the first paragraph of Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act, prior to entry into Norway, or which has received an entry authorisation pending the examination of their application for refugee status. The Directorate for Integration and Diversity shall carry out a first assessment of the competence of all persons staying at arrival centres’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10936	Alternatively, the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 6 shall be replaced by the first sentence of proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] The monitoring shall form the basis for settlement in the appropriate municipality and lay the basis for an integration plan to make the individual self-sufficient’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10953	Alternatively, A § 7, first paragraph, and proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] Host municipalities for reception may offer standardised elements from the introduction programme, cf. Section 14, first and second paragraphs, and other measures to promote integration of persons living in reception who have received a residence permit as referred to in Section 9. Where possible, the process of recognition of foreign education for persons referred to in the first sentence who need it shall be initiated.’;» The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10972	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] Transfer refugees are entitled to intensive courses in democracy, equality and Norwegian working life before entering Norway’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e10992	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section 13 and the proposal No. 66, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] The final objective of participants shall be to qualify for higher education or work, as a minimum, from before. The duration of the programme shall be between three and 12 months and may be extended by up to six months`. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11011	There is a vote on proposal No. 65, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] (c) the course of lifelong learning and public health»; Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11030	Alternatively, point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 14 and proposal No. 6, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] (c) the course of lifelong learning’;» The Progress Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11051	Alternatively, points (d), (e) and (f) of the first paragraph of Section 14 and proposal No. 5, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] d) labour or educational elements’;» The Progress Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11070	Alternatively, A § 26, first and fifth subparagraphs, and proposal No. 7, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] Immigrants between 18 and 67 years of age who have been granted a residence permit as referred to in Section 27 have the right and obligation to participate in training in Norwegian and community knowledge. The age at which the residence permit was granted is essential for the inclusion of the person in the first or third subparagraphs. The right and the obligation shall expire at the age of 67’. The Progress Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11091	It's vossed over A § 40. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11106	Alternatively, A § 48 and proposal No. 70, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on integration through training, education and work [[the law of integration;]] The county may supervise the fulfilment by the municipality of the obligations laid down in Chapters 3 to 6 and Sections 3, 39, 40 and 43 of the Act. The County may also supervise the obligation to have internal control under the municipal law § 25-1. Chapter 10 A of the Municipal Law applies to supervision after the first subparagraph.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11128	President, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11132	The result is that 80 voted in favour of the vote and 6 voted in favour of the proposal – and this is why the vote is approved. It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11143	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11153	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11190	It shall be weighed over B I, III, IV and V. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11204	It's over B.II. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11225	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 4, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that citizenship given on false premises is withdrawn. It shall not be a limitation period.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the following requirements are met in order to obtain Norwegian citizenship: ten years of residence; passed a minimum C1 language test passed the test for basic Norwegian and Western values passing the test whether a Norwegian national should be able to: spot-free base self-sufficiency in the last three years’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that applicants must sign a declaration of allegiance and loyalty to Norway and Norwegian society in order to obtain citizenship. The declaration shall at least contain a promise of compliance with Norwegian law and respect for our laws, regulations and values.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11316	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 10 June 2005 51 on Norwegian citizenship is amended as follows: point (f) of the first paragraph of Section 7 is replaced by the following: f) fulfils the requirements for Norwegian training laid down in Section 8 Section 8 is replaced by the following: Section 8. Requirements for completed Norwegian training For applicants aged between 18 and 67, it is required that they have completed 300 hours of approved Norwegian training or can demonstrate sufficient knowledge in Norwegian or Sami. For applicants aged between 18 and 67 who are subject to the right or obligation to be trained in Norwegian and social knowledge under the Introduction Act, they are required to have completed the training for which they are entitled or required to do so. The date of application is essential for compliance with the 18-year limit after the first and second sentences. The king may lay down detailed rules on the requirement for completed Norwegian training, including derogations, and on the requirement for adequate knowledge in Norwegian or Sami.’;» The Progress Party has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11348	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11459	Now we've been waiting for a while for Guri Melby. Then the President will give the floor to the interpellant, the Bears of the Moxnes. The Minister of Knowledge and Integration is not present in the Chamber, but the Stortinget is not waiting for government councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11464	Our children are in kindergarten a lot of the day, and most of us are satisfied with kindergarten, thanks to skilled employees who extend far to give our children a good offer. When we talk about kindergarten, it's the children who should have been in focus, but over the last 15 years we've seen that kindergartens have become increasingly, unfortunately, big business – investment objects for profit-seekers, even bought up by investment funds in Australia. It's hardly possible to imagine something that's more distant from the 3-year-old in the children's greenhouse than a purchase fund in Australia, but we see that these funds and also large commercial companies buy kindergartens, not because they care so much about how the 3-year-old has it, but to get profit from their investments. Red believes that kindergartens should be profit-free, so that all money allocated to kindergarten goes unabated to the children’s best. The only surplus that should be mentioned in a kindergarten is that the employees have profits for the children. There is a need for good staffing, enough staff are needed with education and not profit-seeking companies that aim to take money out of kindergartens and away from children. In the summer, the Minister of Knowledge wrote that the government wants to ensure that the money gets private kindergartens in state aid and parental pay, the children benefit. But we haven't seen the spin of Melby doing anything about this. What we've seen is how kindergarten owners collect millions of dollars from kindergartens, not only in direct dividends, but also through complicated corporate structures, and we've seen that kindergarten property is sold to the international fund for billions of dollars. We know that several of the welfare professionals have received these nursery rooms cheaply or free of charge from the municipalities. The billionaire brothers Roger and Kristian Adolfsen started out as known with two empty hands and four plots they got free of the time Right-steered Tromsø municipality. Since then they have milked hundreds of Norlandia Barnhagen for profit, and last autumn they sold 170 kindergarten properties to an Australian pension fund for 6 billion. kr. So they took out 600 million. kr in dividends directly in your own pocket. You're supposed to have salt in the porridge. The owners of the Learning Workshop have sold kindergarten estates to Swedish SBB for 4.2 billion. kr. The kindergarten agreement led to a larger operating grant for private kindergartens and, after each full financing of the operation and construction of kindergartens, also funded by the public sector. The government's proposal for amendments to the Children's Gardens Act states: ‘There are thus large amounts built up with government grants and parental payments that can potentially be realised and removed from the kindergartens by sale.’ Already in May 2018, when reports ordered by the government showed that the return on owning kindergartens was more than three times that of Oslo Børs, the government stated that today’s legislation is out of date. The size has instructed the government to follow up on how to distinguish ideal kindergartens from commercial ones with profit motives, as well as on how to ensure pay, employment and pension conditions for employees in kindergartens, but the government has deferred and deferred the changes that have been notified. I want to ask the State Council today to brief the Storting about the process of bringing about complete changes in the Kindergarten Act. I wonder in particular whether Melby will propose changes to ensure that all state aid and parental payment benefit the children. I also wonder if Melby will give the municipalities access to distinguish between ideal and commercial kindergartens. It may have become a little difficult for citizens to defend a policy in which the tax money allocated to well-being builds billions of wealth for a few kindergarten barons. So instead of discussing this which is at the heart of the matter, they resort to derailment. The most widely used derailment is called ‘female entrepreneurs’, as if Rødt’s fight for profit-free welfare is about their being against women or entrepreneurs. It's just nonsense. Profite-free kindergartens will be very good for all the women who work in kindergartens, who experience pressure on pay and working conditions because commercial companies are going to get the best profit from kindergartens. It will also be very good for all entrepreneurs, whether it be women or men, who will create the best possible offer in private, all these fires that burn for the best and not for their own profit, and therefore run kindergartens in ideal private direction instead of commercial ones. They will have better conditions with Red's policy for profit-free kindergartens. These are, of course, those who lose a great deal of money on the Left and on the welfare policies of the citizens. Just listen: since 2005, there have been 58 000 more commercial kindergartens, while 19 000 non-profit kindergartens have been closed down. The six largest companies in the sector now have 32 pst. of the kindergartens in the private nursery sector – six heavy commercial companies, which are generally owned by men. So much for Left's imaginary women's fight in this case. The policy of the Left, on the other hand, has led to the inclusion of several welfare professionals on the Capital list of the 400 richest people in Norway. Here we find the Adolfsen brothers, who own Norlandia. Here we also find Hans Jacob Sundby from the Learning Workshop and also the Savaraids who own Safe Barnehager – a small bundle of billion fortunes built on tax money and parental pay, or as one says in Left: female entrepreneurs. The ideal fires are swept out of the kindergarten sector at the rapid pace of large commercial profit-seeking welfare professionals. If the Council of State cares about diversity in the sector, if she wants to secure the future of the ideal fires, she must stop pretending that ideal kindergartens are the same as commercial ones. But Melby doesn't, she talks consistently about the 'private', never about the clear difference between ideal and commercial, and that's the oldest trick in the book of the welfare professionals, that's to push ideal kindergartens in front of her in the fight for the commercial ones. The purpose is to use the good reputation they have to strengthen the somewhat strenuous reputation of the welfare professionals. Therefore, they always say ‘private’ and never ‘commercial’, but the core of the struggle is not public against private, because our policies will strengthen the private ideal kindergartens. The conflict is commercial versus non-commercial. This difference, of course, understands the Left when it comes to school. In the law of high school, it's a prohibition on collecting profits from schools, because all the money is going to be at the best of the students. This ban supports Left. Yes, even the Right is for a profit ban in school. In the case of kindergartens, later the Left as that the same principle will lead to equalization, to a ban on nutrition, yes to communism and such, in the nursery sector, but in the case of school, you are for that – it is not logical. When we challenged the last left-wing leader of the kindergarten law in February this year, the current Left-leader also took the floor in the debate and said that it would be unreasonable not to allow kindergarten owners to take dividends, and she called the profit debate a threat of being deprived of the nutritional basis. Thus, Melby underlined his ideological position that commercial owners should have the right to reap private profits from money allocated to kindergartens, and that is an honest thing. But then Melby doesn't get away with the politics of the Left and the Government, you'll never make sure that all the money allocated to kindergarten goes to the children's best. With the policies of the Left, millions – yes, as we have seen in the harvest, billions of dollars will disappear from kindergartens and away from children. We believe that it is right, both in principle and for the best of the children, that the money we collect from the parents in their parents' payment, and what is granted through the citizens' taxes to the kindergartens, should go unabated to the best of the children, to ensure the working conditions of the employees, to have enough employees and to ensure the best possible quality of the offer. And then, in our view, it's a blind lead to commercial owners being able to pick up millions of dollars on operations, on sales, on creative company models rather than making sure that the money, as for schools, goes unabated to the children's best. That's our point of view, and we'll fight for that until we get an impact on the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11497	I just have to start by complaining about the delay. I'll try to talk a little fast so we don't go over time when I'm going to answer, at least! A wide range of nursery services has been identified as a quality sign in the Norwegian nursery sector. Through the 2003 kindergarten agreement, it was widely agreed that private kindergartens should play an important role in this sector. It is clear that, compared with all other sectors in which we operate well-being, the feature of private kindergartens is much larger than, for example, that of private kindergartens. private or fresh oils and also in other welfare sectors. There are historical reasons for this. Among other things, there were very many nursery services that started out as a private person. There were very many places where fires, teams and associations or individuals started a nursery service because there was a need for it. I believe that this historic role of private kindergarten owners is also important for how we treat them today. The 2003 kindergarten agreement led to full childcare coverage and a better everyday life for the young children’s parents. Part of the legislation for private kindergartens dates from this time, when there was a need for a large-scale expansion of the sector. The then Minister of Knowledge also invited private people to contribute to this development, and a lot of people did just that. But it's also true, as the representative of Moxnes and his posts depict, that this sector has undergone very big changes in the last ten years. From being a sector under development and characterised by a very large diversity of very many small players, it is now almost fully developed in many places in the country. From the large number of individual kindergartens supported and supervised by municipalities, the sector currently has several large chains with a number of kindergartens in several municipalities throughout the country. Nevertheless, it is still likely that the majority of kindergartens are isolated. But these kindergarten chains have very different organization and also quite complicated structures. Developments in the sector have given us some challenges that today's legislation does not take into account. These are challenges that the government is taking seriously, as the quotations that we believe today's legislation is out of date refer to. The issues to which the representative refers from the Class struggle make another trend in the sector visible. For private actors, it is natural to restructure and organise their activities in line with what they consider appropriate. Today’s legislation does not contain regulation of sales, and it is, of course, a very radical regulation towards private operators to have regulation of precisely that. I will promise the representative of Moxnes that I will follow closely the developments that are taking place and that the class struggle has focused on. These include: to assess whether there are conditions that provide the Ministry with the basis for looking at this type of restructuring. As the representative is well-known, we have gone through today's legislation, and we have sent a number of legislative proposals for consultation. Before the summer Stortinget adopted the government’s proposal for a new national financial supervision for private kindergartens. This is a complex and time-consuming task that today requires a lot of resources from a municipality, and we have seen that while some municipalities have prioritised this and have also succeeded in overseeing in a good way, there are a lot of municipalities that have neither had the opportunity to prioritize it nor managed to exercise supervision in a good way. I believe that state supervision is an important way to ensure that we achieve exactly what the representative is looking for, namely to ensure that the money goes to the kids. National supervision will have both the resources and the competence to oversee the private kindergartens financially, and they will have better conditions than municipalities to look at the private kindergartens that form part of groups and have demanding forms of organisation. I believe that we will now have better and more effective financial supervision. The government is also concerned that we have legislation to ensure that the funds provided by private kindergartens are used for the purpose for which they have been granted. Government grants amount to about 20 billion. kr, and the parental payment is approximately 4 billion. kr. This is a lot of money, and it's important that it benefits the kids. An up-to-date regulatory framework must ensure greater transparency and transparency about what the money is spent on. It will also help to create confidence in and to the sector. In June, the Stortinget Government adopted its proposal to clarify the legislation on how grants and parental payments can be used by kindergartens. It is an important clarification of today's demands that we believe are affecting the use of funds in a good way. Together with national supervision, this will help us to get better and more information about the use of government grants and parental payments on children in kindergarten. I am concerned that we should see any changes in context and create a code that works well as a whole, and that is over time. Changes in the framework conditions for private kindergartens could have a major impact on actors themselves, but also on parents, children and employees. That is also the background for us to continue working on several of the proposals we sent to the hearing in 2019. It includes proposals to ensure greater transparency and control of the funds in the private kindergartens, including accounting requirements, documentation requirements and requirements for each nursery to be a separate legal entity, as well as information on the sale and restructuring of the establishment. As already announced, I will return to Stortinget when we have completed these proposals. I would like to add that we had a goal of being done with these proposals before the summer, but that the representative probably also understands, it was a very special situation both for the private kindergartens and also for the bureaucracy. It meant that we needed a little more time to work on these proposals, but my goal is to advance them as quickly as possible. While ensuring that the funds are spent on the children in kindergarten, the government is committed to ensuring that the private kindergartens have a sustainable economy. It suggests that they must also have the possibility of having a sufficient surplus to ensure stable and predictable operation and the ability to make necessary investments in kindergarten. It is essential that we continue to have private actors in the kindergarten sector as a contribution to a diverse sector with real freedom of choice for parents and children. We have had a comprehensive review of the funding system for private kindergartens. It showed that there was a need to downgrade the pension proposal in the operating grant to private kindergartens. The government therefore proposes it in the State budget for 2021. Number shows that 94 pst. private kindergartens receive more pensions than they actually spend on pensions for their employees. The adjustment does not affect the pension of the employees of the private kindergartens, but the grant will be more in line with the actual pension costs incurred by the nursery. In order to give kindergartens with less economic space for action – i.e. individual kindergartens – more time to adapt to this loss of income, the government proposes to establish a transitional scheme for individual kindergartens, i.e. that they will then have two years to adapt to this change. The Ministry of Knowledge has assessed various measures that can facilitate the continued existence of good framework conditions for the smaller actors in the sector. We continue to consider different solutions aimed, in particular, at equalising the small operating disadvantages of these actors in competition with larger kindergarten chains. We believe that this is absolutely essential for us to be able to maintain the diversity we have in the sector. The government wants to facilitate the continued development of quality and innovation in kindergarten provision. The private kindergartens are an important part of this picture. I am concerned that we have a legislation on grants and controls that ensures good and safe kindergartens, which gives parents freedom of choice, and provides a basis for the operation of both small and large kindergartens with different types of ownership structures. In this way, we facilitate the diversity of owners and the stable provision of families with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11533	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I also think I dare say there were some promising paces, if I can be so positive. We'll see what's going to be the answer to the following, but I noticed that Melby says the department is following what the class struggle has revealed, that is, this sales radii is going on. There are properties that have often been purchased by or offered to commercial owners for some time back by the municipalities, very cheap or free of charge, and that are now sold with a billion-dollar gain to foreign funds, among others. The historical curtain, which Melby points to, is important. It's part of the back porch that these plots in their time they got cheap or free to build kindergartens, not to enrich themselves on resale. I wonder if Melby's promising signals mean that the government will go into discussion about – and perhaps seriously consider – proposals to prevent this massive extraction of what is basically publicly funded values. For example, as we have proposed, it may be pre-buying rights – that if a kindergarten is to be sold, the municipality may have a right to pre-buy to the nursery. If the municipality says no, it will continue, but if the municipality says yes, the community will be able to purchase the nursery, rather than e.g. an Australian pension fund. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on the kind of concrete proposals that can do something about the fact that the values are now being privatised and also moved out to foreign funds. I would also like to repeat one of my questions, which was whether the government will now give municipalities access to distinguish between ideal private and commercial kindergartens. Often it is that you get a choice in a municipality where a majority gives parties support that wants to ensure profit-free kindergartens in public, municipal operations, but also that want to expand and secure kindergartens in private, non-profit activities. They've encountered problems with the government in the past. It has been said from the Right that it is forbidden for local democracy to distinguish between private commercial and private ideal kindergartens. It's a problem because it restricts the government locally, and it deprives its citizens of the opportunity to provide profit-free kindergartens both in the municipal and private ideals. Many municipalities have called for legislative changes, if necessary, in order to ensure that in a municipality they can choose to say that they will say yes to new kindergartens in common use, whether public or private, but they will not have any more kindergartens. This should be possible for a local government to comply with the will of the People's Government. Will the government give them the right to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11542	The representative raises questions about what action can be taken to prevent the kind of super-profit the Class Battle has pointed out. What's challenging here is just history, and if you've bought an plot or a nursery with one set of rules, it's kind of the rules that apply, even when it's going to be sold on. There has been a lot of room in the legislation of the municipalities – even today – to demand, among other things. right of pre-emption if a kindergarten is to be sold. That claim has been made by the municipalities. I think it makes sense for a municipality to provide either free or heavily subsidized properties, to make some demands on it, just to ensure that the money being invested benefits the children. What I find very difficult to see, however, is how to make such demands retrospectively. If someone got an empty for free in 2000 and is now going to sell on, how can we demand how to use it? In that case, we have to look at that. The representative also points to something that is quite demanding: what kind of opportunities you have to distinguish between ideals and so-called commercial ones. First of all, I think it's quite problematic to put the distinction right there, because the question is what defines a commercial actor. Is that the type of company, is that the purpose, or is that the way you operate? I have e.g. met quite a number of private kindergarten actors who are AS, but which I believe obviously operate according to quite idealist principles, obviously after a wish to give the best possible offer to children, and who have never really had any particular profit in the job they have done. Is it a commercial enterprise, or is it a non-profit enterprise? Is it only the form of organization that decides, or is there other things? I believe that the most productive thing is to set quality requirements for the content, as we do, among other things. have been performed with the standard of personnel and the standard of education. I think that's the best way to regulate. The government has reduced a sample called the welfare service committee, just to look at the possibility for a municipality to say that they will not have a private one, but they can allow ideal ones – whether there will be an opportunity for municipalities to have. That sample, I am familiar with it, will deliver before Christmas, so we will at least get an answer as to whether there is any room for possibility here that the municipality can use, if they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11553	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing the question of the status of the government's work on changes to the Children's Homes Act, because that is something I have asked myself for in several line exchanges with both this and the previous Minister of Knowledge. But my starting point is probably something different than for Red, because the Advance Party is for private kindergartens. Half of the country’s kindergarten children go to private kindergartens, which ensure parental freedom of choice, contribute to diversity in the offer, and they have been crucial to achieving the goal of full childcare coverage. Most private kindergartens are of high quality. They have consistently lower sick leave, they are effectively operated, and we are all well-known that they are cutting away the best on parental studies. The cooperation between the state, the municipality and the private kindergartens is and has been a very successful welfare reform, and I am happy that we live in a country where making money is not prohibited. If someone manages to provide good welfare services that users are satisfied with, and at the same time get a profit, I don't think it's negative. The most important thing is that the parents are satisfied, and that the service is good, not who delivers the service. But we've seen in the last few years, as the interpellant takes up, purchases in the nursery sector where the sellers are left with huge sales gains. During the large kindergarten development in the 2000s, Stortinget made it beneficial to establish kindergartens. The State granted investment grants. The municipalities were encouraged to provide cheap plots, and the children’s gardeners were given favourable conditions in the House Bank. This was thought to be a good strategy at the time to ensure rapid expansion, and it worked. But at the same time, it means that a good number of kindergartens today can be sold with very good profit, which is due to good public support schemes, and it can therefore be wise to look at this in order to look at regulations for future sales. For the Progress Party, it is important that we should not overlook the sector with more regulation because, in good faith, the Stortinget and the municipalities practiced a policy that gives bad results today, for a problem that is no longer relevant. Because you no longer get the favorable conditions that you had 15 years ago. That time is over. In addition, the Progress Party considers that the sector has already been regulated in the form of e.g.: Manning standards and maximum price. We have therefore long wanted clarifications in particular in the areas where the sector has been most critical of what was sent out at the hearing, such as: pension grants, requiring all kindergartens to be their own legal entity. But we've also been busy lowering the threshold to establish kindergartens. Now the state budget has arrived. The Progress Party has received a number of inquiries from the sector about the seriousness of the proposed change in the pension grant — without looking at the financing of the sector as a whole. This will be an important point for the Progress Party, which we will follow up in the weeks and months ahead. I understand that the Council of State will not already send signals about what is in the legislation that comes, but I hope that they can go away from the idea that each kindergarten should be a separate legal entity. The educational workshop wrote in its consultation response that they believe costs will increase by $10 million a year if claims are made on their own legal entity for each kindergarten, among others. because it will lead to increased costs, inter alia. salary management, accounting, forwarding and auditing. You will risk that the money will be moved from the children to more bureaucracy. A requirement for its own legal entities would also violate the principle of non-discrimination, because it would reduce non-discrimination since a similar requirement would not apply to municipal kindergartens. Steps to reduce non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens, while leading to increased bureaucracy, will be a strange leap of curvature from a non-socialist government, and it will be exciting to see what comes in the legislation when this is clear. The Progress Party is ready to take the fight for private kindergartens, in order to ensure freedom of choice, in order to ensure diversity for parents and stable and predictable framework conditions for the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11576	We all work to ensure that we have the best possible offer for kindergarten children. The centre party believes that we need to keep focus on a good kindergarten offer throughout the country, in front of an acute debate. In fact, we have kindergarten coverage thanks to half private and half municipal kindergartens. Kindergartens are an important venue for child inclusion and development. They help children to learn from other children and to be followed up by employees who know children. The centre party is concerned that those who follow the day-to-day kindergartens close to people, namely the municipalities, get the best possible starting point to ensure good kindergartens. The operation of kindergartens is demanding in several ways. We as parents and societies expect more and more. With a framework plan for kindergartens, we will focus on the quality and development of children. Management, manning and pedagogical requirements should focus on staff. At the same time, the centre party would like to see much more money spent on kindergartens. This requires Stortinget to grant more money to the municipalities than today. KS is clear that the standard of manning is underfunded. The centre party believes that the involvement of local authorities and local authorities would have been better than national supervision. So for questions about how the nursery allowance is used, on which today's interpellation has focus. The centre party believes that we should update the funding for kindergartens according to today's situation. More openness around the use of money serves everyone. It is demanding that it be speculated in the kindergarten sector and welfare services. At the same time, it is very important to recognise that a large proportion of kindergartens are driven by red figures and deficits. According to the Landsförbund, PBL, four out of ten private kindergartens were in deficit in 2019, and five out of ten in deficit budgeted in 2020. It is limited how long one can operate on equity funds. I'm afraid of the pediatrics coverage if not the funding better reflects the cost of the pediatrics. Small private and ideal kindergartens remind us of how demanding it is. In the Natural and Farming Children's Networks, there are many desperate kindergarten farms in the districts. Whether there are farmyards, parent-run kindergartens or something else that is now afraid of closure, there is a potential loss for the children and their families' offers and opportunities. The combination of kindergartens and size is all too often the result of savings. I think the few dreams of having children in Norway's largest kindergarten. That is why we must bet on kindergartens near people throughout the country. The funding system is a challenge both for municipalities and for individual kindergartens. Differences in grants between municipalities remain high. The government liquidates the financing of the staffing norm and considers it to be funded. At the same time, they remove parts of the pension grant and cuts 350 million. kr. A transitional arrangement is in place. The Ministry of Knowledge itself, when the current pension grant was established, said that the high pension grant had to be seen in the context of the low capital grant granted to the nursery. What if the pension grant is the last to enable many kindergartens to continue to operate? What if all the action spaces now are gone? PBL fears that a cut in the pension allowance will go beyond the employee’s pension conditions, contrary to what the Council of State says here today. The government has been eager to take action, but these measures have an undesirable effect. The centre party will preserve diversity and ensure small, private opportunities to move on. To do that, we need a comprehensive study on the financing of kindergartens. The way the kindergartens are now handled is broken and divided. Bets at one end without funding provide cut and a reduced offer at the other end. Early efforts and bets on kindergartens are a cross-political priority. Kindergartens in our long-term country are now undergoing major changes in their framework conditions without full compensation. It's unpredictable. It provides a poor framework for the drivers of kindergartens and the employees of kindergartens, and at the end of the day, it makes the future uncertain for many families and children. Reduced babysitting and debilitating kindergartens do not provide a better day-to-day day-care for children. The Center Party is working to ensure that we have the best possible offer for kindergarten children, and the Center Party believes that we need to keep focus on a good kindergarten offer throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11601	Melby adorns himself with the fact that the government sees the problem, and that's good. But two and a half years have passed since they said that the legislation was out of date, and we are still waiting for concrete proposals. Then the problem was already well known more than ten years ago, when the red-greens tried to tighten up the dividend and profit party in the nursery sector, but got lobes lowered by PBL, Espira and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who succeeded in pushing a majority government to put away the proposal to prevent profit from being taken out of the kindergartens and away from the children. So I have to say that the left in 2020 admits that it is a problem that the money is taken out of the kindergartens, is well and good, but it is not very «cutting edge» to say so. But then the question concerns ideal and commercial. It is two years since the Stortingen decided to ask the government to investigate legislative changes that can just allow municipalities to distinguish between ideal and commercial private kindergartens. Then the ball is rolled back again to the Grand Council of State here today, and then we're going to answer what's the difference. But it is an order for the government to actually investigate the separation, and of course it will be – in our view – what is the purpose of kindergarten. A distinction is established between both profit and non-profit activities in other welfare services. So it's completely possible, we think, to get such a distinction in the kindergarten sector as well. But then the government, with its apparatus in the department, had to investigate this rather than just asking the Storting in an interpellation debate about what we think of the distinction. This is an order. The government must be able to deliver on it. So I'll finally say something about this with retroactive force. What we have proposed is that the Stortinget ask the government to submit legislative proposals to ensure the public a statutory pre-purchase right of property regulated to provide publicly funded welfare services. It can be regulated for future sales, i.e. for future sales, of these properties if the bulk of the population asks for it. I would like to have the views of the Council of State on that. In addition, I would like to ask the Council of State to say something if the Council of State does not see that it may be in place with penalties if the owner violates the conditions under which the municipality is to be given pre-purchase rights, which we have seen documented in the class struggle and elsewhere, i.e. if the owners give the idea that they should offer the municipality pre-purchase rights. They're breaking it. They sell it to Australian pension funds, and the kindergartens are gone. Should we not impose a kind of penalty on those who circumvent the right to purchase in the way that Norlandia has done, in order to have a preventative effect in order to ensure that future sales of kindergarten properties do not lead to driving around the municipality's right to purchase?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11610	I'm going to try to comment on some of the moments that have been up in the debate, first the moment of the distinction between ideal and commercial businesses. I am a little uncertain whether the representative followed up on what I said, because I said that the government has started a work on it, and a sample will deliver on this before Christmas. But I still believe that in a debate like this, it is worth asking the question of how easy it is to make such a distinction. There are several non-profit actors who have also taken out the profits associated with, for example: the sale of kindergartens. The question is, is it okay because they have an ideal purpose, or isn't it? So what is it that defines a business as non-profit, and what is it that defines it as commercial? And what are we really trying to put a stop to? I think that is a question that should be asked in such a work. Then I also have to comment on a few of the elements that the representative of the Central Party was in, which referred to the cut in the pension grant as dramatic for the economy of the kindergartens. Well, the main component of the kindergarten economy is the grant calculated on the basis of the municipality's use in kindergarten. The pension supplement is approx. 1 pst. That means that the most important thing for a private nursery is what the municipality in which the kindergarten is located chooses to use. If we're talking about kindergartens having a bad economy, it's also about local priorities. I have not heard that the Central Party has previously called for us to have national supervision, and I would argue that it is also somewhat contrary to the Central Party's basic ideology of giving local politicians more power. I think at least this is something that it should be possible to prioritise locally, just as they have the opportunity to give priority to how much they want to spend on health care, at school and on a variety of other services. So I always wonder why there's so much focus on profit from exactly kindergarten, and why we don't focus on profit in other sectors. There are also a number of other sectors where government buys both goods and services, where it is not the same focus on profit as it is on kindergarten. My basic attitude is that as long as we're sure that we have good kindergartens, that we have high-quality kindergartens, and that we know that the children are doing well when they're in kindergarten, it's the most important thing for me. What I think is the best line to work in the future is to set quality standards. That is what the Stortinget has done when a standard of manpower and a standard of education have been adopted. Then we just make sure that the money goes to the best of the child. What also makes it very demanding is that measures are taken for example. to prevent excessive profits for large players, and may also very quickly affect small players. It may affect the kindergarten founder who exists, who is often a woman, who starts up a kindergarten himself, and who has invested a lot of time and leisure and equity into a kindergarten, and who, perhaps after a long career, wants to sell the nursery and thus cash in his pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11625	Then we finished the interpellation debate in case no. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11639	Digitalisation of the health sector is an important priority and the new eHealth Directorate was opened by Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie in 2016. The Directorate shall be an e-health specialist in the healthcare sector. The Executive Board shall have national authority and a pre-missive role in the field of eHealth and shall be a driver for the development of digital services in the health and care sector, in accordance with the mandate. In recent years, the Directorate for eHealth has been criticised. It has been criticised for its use by consultants, it has been criticised for mixing roles, and it has been criticised for violations of procurement law. The e-Health Directorate spent 470 million years ago. to hire consultants. The evening post has revealed how the consulting company PwC has secured a contract worth 75 million. kr on the planning of the public journal project Akson. The contract they got during six working days. At that time, one of PwC's shareholders had been central to the state's spending for a year and got to come up with reports about the demands the state would make on the contract. The consultant from PwC has long been acting as the state's husband in the work on what could become Norway's largest IT project – and he was therefore a partner in the consulting company PwC. This is what many people have reacted to, and it's been called before, through the media, that the Council of State should have come to the Storting and done some good for this mix of roles, which seemed quite unheard of. So the directorate used PwC to plan work that they'd be competing for later. PwC 84 million had been allocated by the end of 2019 as part of the planning and planning work. kr in income, according to the Evening Item on 16 September. However, the Directorate says that the consultancy company does not have a central role. ‘PwC’s role in the project is being bloated;’ wrote the Director Bergland in a reading article in July. But also in 2020, consultant fees have streamed into PwC. They include: were used to handle a number of media requests and to prepare a speech point for the directorate's guide before they went to an interview. In May, one of PwC’s consultants conducted a total working time of NOK 60000, where media handling is among the things mentioned in the job description. PwC's consultants are used in media work despite the fact that the directorate has its own communications department. And for all I know, maybe these consultants are also used to answer questions that Stortinget has asked to the ministry. Now the Directorate for e-Health has examined themselves, and they have acquitted themselves and their consultants. They strove to say that there was room for improvement. But this conclusion was said in advance. The directorate's lead refused from day one, when this became known, because the consultant's use in the directorate was problematic, even though public procurement experts problemated the role PwC had had in the supply process. It should be clear that the Directorate for eHealth should be re-examined, by others than the Directorate itself, and now there is a need for measures to clear up the confidence of the Directorate for eHealth. Fortunately, the National Audit Office has announced that they have started an investigation into the Directorate for e-Health, and they will review the use of PwC's consultants, how consultants have been used in planning the largest digitisation project in the country. Then one also has to see this in conjunction with the law of e-health, which is most likely shone by the Storting. That bill is about to give the Directorate for eHealth more responsibility, and the bill has been strongly criticised by both the IT industry and trade unions for being weakly justified and for having a major impact on innovation and competition in the market. It is clear that the need for new and communicating journal solutions in healthcare services is great, and the directorate's project Akson is a major project. It has been disputed because there is a solution that has not been accepted well, which is that all Norwegian municipalities will have a new and common solution for patient journals, with a total price of 22 billion. kr for development and implementation. More people wonder that Norway is planning something that no other country has ever done. There are a lot of unresolved questions, like who's going to pay. The experience from both Norway and other countries is that gigantic high-ambitious IT projects are likely to fail. Thus, Akson has been criticised by both professionals, the IT community and even by the National Centre for eHealth Research, which states that they have not been asked for advice in this matter. The common thing for everyone is that they think the solution they have chosen should be sent for quality assurance. The process around Akson has been seen as closed and not accessible to the public for the six years that work has gone on. Hearing has also not been carried out – even if the directorate is obliged to send out actions with significant effects on hearing. Then the external quality assurance showed that it was recommended 100 pst. participation by municipalities and a reduction in participation in the project is a major risk. The quality assurance report states that uncertainty is attached to the owner’s ability to take proper decisions at the right time, and to the programme director and project owner’s ability to control programmes and projects. This is a very clear criticism of the rental of Akson in the Directorate for e-Health. The quality insurer also believes that the decision on funding for the rest of the project will have to wait for a new quality assurance. So it's amazing that no one can answer – in the directorate – where the Akson decision is made. Neither the e-Health Director nor the Council of State can respond to the rules for not having heard if the billion-dollar project Akson has been followed. In order to avoid hearing, there has to be a decision in the top organ, and that's the directorate, should be a belief. A decision should be in writing and follow the matter. But when Dagens Medisin asked the director of the e-Health Directorate, she showed her to the department. The ministry could not answer and referred to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance returned the question to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Perhaps today the Council of State can answer the question: What time and by whom is it decided whether Akson was taken, and where is this justified in writing? The Health Minister has also argued against hearing because this is a municipal project. This is a lot of disunity in. The fact that a majority of the municipalities have entered into a commitment agreement is not the same as a commitment to this solution. This is a project that will have consequences at the level of society, and the state and government cannot go beyond that responsibility. Today the news came that the Institute of Public Health, the Directorate of Health and the Government has been strengthened by its reputation under the Koronacrisa, and that is probably fast, but I believe this does not apply to the Directorate of e-Health. The center party was opposed to creating the directorate. We fear increasing bureaucracy and responsible powdering, and I think that's a lot of what we're seeing now – enormous use of consultants, mixing roles, using external consultants who have central roles in the development of nuclear projects. This causes trust to be weakened. When, in such a situation, the ministry will give this directorate even more legal power and authority, it is a disturbing development. The question is whether the government is behind the consulting practice of the Directorate for e-Health and will the government initiate an external examination of the role and practice of the Directorate based on the Akson case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11671	Let me first thank the representative Toppe for the question. Digitalisation and ICT are a prerequisite for creating the patient’s healthcare. The government has great ambitions in the field of eHealth, and several projects are now being planned and implemented. Experience with covid-19 also shows that digitisation can help prevent the spread of infection and maintain the best possible provision of health and care under a pandemic. Two of these digitisation projects need to be viewed in the context and referred to as Akson. The projects relate to one single municipal journal solution and a national interaction solution. Together, these will help to better link Health Norway. It will provide citizens with safer and better health care. The majority of municipalities support the work of a joint municipal journal solution. Until today 186 out of 291 municipalities have chosen to sign a declaration of intent to participate in further work with Akson. This shows that municipalities need and want better journal and interaction solutions. About 100 municipalities did not sign the declaration of intention by the deadline of 1 July. Some municipalities did not have time to deal with the declaration, while others did not want to sign the declaration now. The municipalities that have not signed the declaration of intention will, of course, also be able to use a common municipal journal solution once it has been realised and participate in the further work. In the draft State budget for 2021, the Government has proposed to allocate 93 million. DKK for further work on the joint municipal journal solution and 189 million. kr to work on a comprehensive interaction solution. In order to succeed in strengthening digitisation in the field of health and care, it is important to have access to the necessary capacities and competences. The eHealth Directorate was set up in 2016 to ensure more comprehensive and predictable development of ICT in the health and care field. This requires, inter alia: a strong professional environment in the field of eHealth. Although the Directorate has built up expertise with its own staff in this area, there is also a need for consultant assistance. Since its inception, the Directorate has therefore had a deliberate strategy to set up interdisciplinary teams consisting of both its own staff and consultants to solve the problems. The use of consultants can be an appropriate and important complement to ensure peak competence and flexibility. At the same time, I am concerned that the directorate finds the right balance between consultants and permanent employees. It is also important that the Directorate has good and orderly processes for the acquisition and use of consultants. This summer I therefore asked the Directorate for e-Health for a presentation with additional information about their use of consultants. The statement by the Directorate for eHealth was available on 17 August 2020. In the report, the directorate shall inform, inter alia: that the proportion of hired hourly consultants was about 20 to 30 pst. measured in annual work between 2016 and 2019. The Directorate’s use of consultants has increased in the course of the year due to the increasing volume of missions and the high level of activity in the development of national solutions and programmes. The tasks transferred to Norsk Healthnett SF on 1 January 2020 had a relatively large proportion of consultants, and the directorate therefore estimates that the number of consultants in the Directorate will fall by 2020. As part of the department's review of the directorate's report, I have also asked the directorate for additional information on some aspects. This concerns aspects relating to the acquisition of the work of the project One builds up – one journal in the autumn of 2018 and the role of consultants in the work before the competition was announced, and in the period up to the choice of supplier. On 28 September 2020, the Directorate submitted a report containing additional information. It is concluded that public procurement rules have been complied with by calling on the framework agreements for ICT consultancy services. The Executive Board review shows that the activities contributed by external consultants were within the scope of existing consultative agreements. According to the Directorate, the consultants did not participate in any way in the preparation of the basis of competition for the acquisition carried out in the autumn of 2018. The acquisition was handled exclusively by directorate employees and the planning activities carried out earlier in the same harvest had no practical effect on the performance of the acquisition. Eight calendar days – six working days – were also asked for an offer deadline that was sufficient for the acquisition in the autumn of 2018. In order to facilitate competition, the requirements were maintained at a level that most of the suppliers of the framework agreement could be able to meet. None of the suppliers requested an extended offer period during the acquisition. The Directorate also informed that several of the suppliers felt that the time limit for the offer was sufficient. Therefore, according to the Directorate, the suppliers involved in the work in the autumn of 2018 did not have an unfair competitive advantage because of the activities they contributed. There was therefore no basis for excluding them from competition for new consulates. In connection with the statement, the directorate has also obtained a legal assessment from the law firm Kluge. Klockes' opinion is: ‘Based on the overall assessments reviewed, it is our opinion that the directorate in the allocation of calls 18/851 to PwC has not breached the procurement rules, either because PwC should have been rejected as an adviser in the mini-concurrency procedure or because the directorate has otherwise violated basic procurement principles’. In other words, the law firm supports Kluge’s assessment that there is no breach of procurement rules. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has also reviewed the presentation and the legal assessments without finding any evidence that offences have been committed in connection with the acquisition and use of consultants. The representative also asks whether the government will initiate an external review of the role and practice of the Directorate, based on Akson. The review by the Directorate of the acquisition and use of consultants from 17 August and 28 September, as I said, does not provide any evidence of a suspicion that offences have occurred in connection with the acquisition and use of consultants. I am also aware that the National Audit Office has launched a review and follow-up of the conditions associated with the acquisition of the e-Health Directorate to PwC in 2018. Therefore, at this stage, I do not see the need to initiate an external examination of the role and practice of the directorate on the basis of the Akson case. Having said that, I believe that the directorate's report on the use of consultants has been important, both for the follow-up of the department and the public's need for information. It has also been useful for a relatively new directorate to review its own procedures for tendering procedures. I believe it is important that the Directorate now learn from the review and make improvements in procurement practices and practices for the use of consultants in line with the proposed recommendations made in the statement of 17 August 2020. The Directorate itself points to the following improvement points, including: after dialogue with the suppliers with whom the framework agreement has been concluded: The Directorate shall assess changes to the procedures to strengthen competition between suppliers by calling on the framework agreements for ICT consultancy services. The Directorate shall make it easier to identify whether resources in projects and teams are contracted. The Directorate shall, where possible and appropriate, occupy even more central roles in programmes and projects with its own staff. I know that the directorate is now fully tracking these points. I also want to follow up the practice and procedures of the Directorate for the acquisition and use of consultants in the management dialogue. This is also evident from my reply to the representative of Storing Telef Inge Mørland to question 2517 on 14 September 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11722	There's something about trust in health authorities in the country. I think it's more than me and the Center Party that reacted to what came up about the Directorate for e-Health's practice and its role understanding. There were also others who were concerned that this was a violation of the Public Acquisitions Act. So when I belong to the Council of State today, there's a lot of course, of course, in the answer. We are all some that digitisation is necessary, and that covid-19 has shown us the need for it, and we are all some that one needs better municipal journal solutions and interaction solutions. But that's not what this interpolation is about. I can't believe the department could let it go that far when you look at how the Directorate for e-Health has developed. Even if it turns out that there is no violation of the law on public acquisitions, I'm left with questions about the government think it's actually done the way the directorate has developed – that one has to purchase competence externally to drive through what's the key project here and now for the directorate. When I read about how the one consultant appears to meet with private and others as the directorate's husband, it is something that is absolutely not good. Even if you can't say that it's a lawbreaker, there's an unculture in the directorate, which I think the council should have cleaned up. Another thing, which I didn't get answers to when it concerns Akson, is who has taken the decision when it concerns Akson? The e-Health Directorate could not answer that question. HOD has not been able to answer that question. The Ministry of Finance, to which it was referred, was unable to respond. And this is used as an argument for just failing to listen, where you could get quality assurance for this project. Akson has been promoted by the Directorate for e-Health, and today both seem confident.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11731	No, Akson is not driven by the e-Health Directorate. Akson is driven by the KS, the municipalities and the government as a very strong cooperation project. When we were able to draw up the first external quality assurance of the concept for one citizen – one journal, it was a clear wish from the KS that the government had to move forward with the development of further plans and quality assurance of the project. It has also been followed up by the government, partly funded by the KS, and the directorate has, of course, had a central role in carrying out these tasks. It is a very strong involvement of the municipalities in the central steering group, where seven municipalities sit around the table. This is further anchored politically, where I also have regular meetings with the political leaders of these municipalities together with the KS. It is very rare that you have such a large digitisation project where there is such close cooperation between the municipalities, those who have chosen and are part of the local authorities, the local government's own organisation and government, also at the political level. Now we are at a very useful new milestone where the Stortinget will decide on the financing of the programme costs for Akson further. This means that next year you will go into a phase where the municipalities will sit in an even stronger management position of the entire project, but where the state will of course be involved and contribute further – not least with the competences that include: is available in the Directorate. But to present this as a project run by a directorate without contact with reality is as far away from what's real as it's possible to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11742	Today, patients encounter a healthcare service where the opportunities offered by digitisation are not fully addressed. In response to healthcare, we are, to a large extent, the bearers of our own information. When you get to the doctor after a hospitalization, it is usually a person who needs to remember information about his or her own health condition. For some it can be harder than for others. If you are a dent and are discharged from hospitals to hospitals, it may be difficult – if not impossible – to pass on vital information about yourself. Then you are also offered support from relatives. The fact that the different parts of healthcare do not have good enough systems to talk to each other gives us a greater risk of mistreatment. Digitisation can help solve many of those problems. If we succeed, it will mean better treatment, and that will mean better patient safety. Digitisation can prevent errors, it can be used for research and development, and it can not least make our everyday lives easier. This is also why the government has great ambitions in the field of e-health and works with projects such as: Akson records and development of different interaction solutions. The majority of municipalities are also involved in the work. Municipalities representing about 65 pst. by residents outside central Norway, have also signed a declaration of intention to participate further in the work. I also think it is important that the nurses' union has said that it is urgent to get Akson in place. In an article in Dagens Medisin in spring, Lill Sverresdatter Larsen wrote: «We believe it is urgent. Now we need to move from discussion to action and get better digital tools that will benefit patients, relatives and health professionals." The uncertainties and weaknesses identified in the second quality assurance must now be reviewed and followed up, including in cooperation with the municipalities. There is another quality assurance, and it is also important for the Right. I would also like to say that I agree with the interpellant that we should have a critical look at the consulting in the state. It is about taking good care of taxpayers' money and making sure that they benefit people in the form of good welfare services. That is why I am also very pleased that the Minister of Health has been very clear that the Directorate for e-Health should look at its procedures for the use of consultants, and that the Directorate has improvement points for acquisitions, to be reviewed. So we are in complete agreement on that. But I would also like to comment on the steady balancing of the Centre Party's budget with cuts in the consulting industry in the state. Because with the Central Party's option, one of two would have had to be chosen: either we had to hire the consultants in the state so that they could have taken care of the development of an incredibly important work for better treatment of Norwegian patients, or they could have said no to an e-health bet, which would mean a lot for patient safety. It would have been a step backwards for the modernisation of the public sector, but above all, it would have been a step backwards for patients, who need to tackle old digital solutions that do not provide us with the patient safety we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11768	Only in the e-Health Directorate has the consultancy cost half a billion dollars in 2019. We have to stop the Elville Consultant practice in the state. In 2012, Höie said that there was too much use of consulting services when there was almost one billion kroner for consulting services in all healthcare companies combined. In just one directorate, as Höie rules, the e-Health Directorate, they've spent 1.2 billion dollars. kr to consultants from 2016 to 2019. What does Höie want to say now? The government's job is to control the use of our well-being crowns. Information from the Ministry shows that the government has not done the job to control the use of consultants. The evening post has told us how the Directorate for eHealth has, over several years, allowed one of the partners of the consulting company PwC to manage one of the state's largest e-Health projects, Akson, and act as a bureaucrat on the outside. If a director leaves a consulting company both to tender and to manage the media for its own profits, it is not only wasted with the community's money but also serious abuse of power and trust. The work of the Directorate has given PwC huge revenues, and experts refer to it as a problematic mix of roles and breaches of procurement rules. The Directorate for eHealth shall establish a strong professional environment in the field of eHealth. Solid, entire posts that remain in the directorate will strengthen competence. Private consultants may contribute to the point competence of an enterprise not themselves, but they take the competence out of their business when they have carried out their mission. By investing so unilaterally in the use of private consultants, the Directorate has not well managed its social responsibility to build a strong professional environment in the field of e-Health. This is the responsibility of the Council of State. It's the government's responsibility. And they haven't done their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11777	Thank you to the two who took part in the debate. This is a matter which comes back again during the treatment of the state budget, where Akson is in prison. I agree with the representative Wilkinson that it is funny to hear that the government party Right today is the foremost defender of the consulting practice in the state. The centre part is not 100 pst. In contrast to the use of external consultants, the scope of this applies and they have such a central position in the Directorate of a project that is their main project here and now. The goal of creating the directorate was to get a trades union directorate. If someone in 2016 had said that the directorate would use half a billion dollars to hire external consultants, I think maybe more than the centre party would have been skeptical about creating this directorate, and that is what this debate is all about. I have not yet received a response from the Council of State to the question of who and what time it is decided whether Akson, that is, the solution, was taken, because after the order of business it must be done if one is to fail to listen. The government has refused to send this on an external quality assurance hearing, as the distribution instructions say. I thought I could get an answer as to the time the decision about Akson has been made, by whom, and where this has been recorded. So it's taken up by the state council that Akson is now driven by the municipalities. It's also going to be a rewriting of the actual situation. It is clear that this is a journal project to be done in municipalities, and the municipalities are of course interested. That municipality does not exist that is not interested in getting better journal solutions and interaction solutions with the specialist services, but from that point on to saying that everyone commits to Akson is an exaggeration. A multiple has signed a commitment agreement, but in the preparation of it, information to the local government, it is stated that this is no obligation; it comes in second round. So then we'll see, but this is a responsibility that the government can't go away from, and one should at least be in favour of an external quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11788	First of all, the story that Toppe makes about the answers from Dagens Medisin about the question she raised stops just before the answers were given both by the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Health and Health, so that the representatives can also read the answers there. Otherwise, this is a project that, in addition to support from the Nurses' Association, also has very strong support from the patients, including. at the FFO. I have not said at any time that the 186 municipalities that have signed the contract have committed themselves. It would be at an early stage. A number of questions to be answered further in the programming process related to Akson will be important questions for municipalities to be answered before concluding any binding agreements. However, as is also the case in the State budget proposal, the government assumes that municipalities representing a minimum of 55 pst. by residents of Norway, other than Middle Norway, shall enter into more binding agreements before entering into the acquisition of Akson. But it will be the municipalities themselves that acquire the Akson. These are tasks that need to be solved; the development of better digital solutions are tasks that need to be solved. The Central Party's option was not to set up the e-Health Directorate. That means that a department in the Health Directorate should have done this job further. It had led to a much greater need for hiring consultants, because then one had not built up a separate organisation that had this competence. So what the representative, Toppe, says, they stood for another alternative that would involve fewer consultants is wrong. No, probably the Central Party's option would have meant that this project had been even more dependent on consultants and contracted expertise, and to a lesser extent run by a directorate that has it as its core competence. It is incredibly important to keep a high level of progress in this work. There is a great need to address these challenges in municipalities. Patients experience the challenges every day that we do not have good enough coherent digital solutions, and so do those who work in the services and municipalities. Not least for some of the smaller municipalities, it is absolutely vital that we do this together, the municipalities and the state together. I think it is quite significant that the first municipality to sign the Memorandum of Understanding was Utsira, the smallest municipality in the country. It is quite obvious that for such a municipality this will be a problem that is completely impossible to solve on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11799	The debate on substance is closed. So 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11815	The choice of treatment is controversial, in the sense that some parties regard the scheme as a problem that needs to be eliminated. When you look at the participation in the debate, it can't be so deep, because there are no red-green parties – who use so much energy in the debate to tell you how bad free treatment options are – who care about participating when I invite you to a debate on just free treatment choices. I think there's good reason to discuss free treatment options, but then on the assumption that we need more of it, for more groups and more patients. So while some people are calling for liquidation, I believe that patients will be the losers in the abolition of free treatment options. Everyone will have the opportunity to be the head of their own lives, especially when life is difficult. Free treatment options are available for patients, and we need to manage this system well. If not, public cooperation with the private and transparency on the quality of services is put at risk. The patients will be the losers. Five years have passed since the government introduced free treatment choices. Since then, around 40,000 have used the freedom to choose a different offer from the public one. Patients who have needed treatment in the field of mental health protection, drug treatment, rehabilitation and some other hospital treatment have benefited from this scheme. And I want, as I said, to expand the system, so that we use the available capacity and get down the waiting times even more. Free treatment has saved lives and allowed us to treat more people. Some parties have given the impression that the free choice of treatment allows individuals to freely establish themselves on public account. It's completely wrong. It is the government itself that decides which diagnosis and which patient groups are to be included in the scheme, and what private individuals are to be paid for the treatments. It is important that health cows go down, but it is at least equally important that patients are given the right to choose treatment that works separately. The right will also give more of the country's older people and their relatives the freedom to choose which care services best meet their needs. We will do that by introducing a code that can be used by municipalities to provide freedom of choice in the care of the elderly, and by introducing the right of exchange for those who are dissatisfied with the service they are receiving today. Having the opportunity to replace, not just complain, gives a door out of situations that may have been locked down, or where the dissatisfaction with the service you get may have been long-lasting, without having been addressed by the public offer. And there's a frustration among many. Where they live, they have an offer, that's the municipality they live in. If they don't accept it, they'll get nothing. The same also applies if one is completely dependent on the public hospital and has nowhere else to go. Then it's a value in itself to take care of that freedom of choice. The right to influence where and how one is to be treated, and the right to opt out of what one is dissatisfied with, has become a dividing line between the right and the left of Norwegian policies, and it has grown larger for each year that has passed. Freedom of choice is important for patients. It's important for those who will have the opportunity to shower every day instead of once a week, as Toril Buer can now, after using his freedom of choice. It's important for those who need help at home every three weeks, not just every four weeks, as it was in Tromsø after free treatment choice was completed there. It is important for people like Steffen André Gamst Pedersen from Tromsø, who suffer from a serious and debilitating muscle disorder and are connected to the respiratory system day and night, who with his private offer felt better cared for than what he did with the municipal offer. It is also important for people like Steffen's mother, who were tired after being available 24 hours a day and finally felt secure that the son was getting enough help. Unfortunately, Steffen lost the offer when a recommunalized offer in Tromsø. In the Right, we recognise the challenge we face in the coming time. There are good reasons to have both non-profit and other private actors as part of the welfare mix. One of the strengths of the private sector is that they can provide capital and capacity quickly. As early as 2030, it is believed that we will be 60,000 new recipients of municipal care services, so there will have to be alternatives. The best medicine against a two-part healthcare system is that everyone gets to choose. Without free choice of treatment and freedom of choice in care services, only those with a thick wallet can choose. If the left side prohibits private in public welfare, the private will not disappear, but we will have a two-part health service that will be reinforced by longer waiting times. Right wants everyone to choose for themselves, not just those who can pay for it. The aim of free treatment options is more freedom of choice for patients, reduced waiting times and stimulating public hospitals to become more effective. Today, 50 authorised suppliers, and only in the first tertiary this year, nearly 6,000 patients are used by the scheme. So then I'm excited about the answer from the Council of State to what he will do to further develop free treatment options, so that even more patients can benefit from the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11840	The Government introduced the free treatment choice scheme in 2015. The aim of the scheme is more freedom of choice for patients, reduced waiting times and stimulating public hospitals to become more effective. We chose to focus the patient instead of the system. We know that patients are more concerned about getting the help they need, and that it is publicly funded, than who gives them the help. We're taking this seriously. The government's goal is to create the patient's healthcare. Good public-private cooperation can contribute to innovation, diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the provision of services. These are key elements of the patient’s healthcare. The use of private actors has been and is an important means of achieving this objective. Under the previous government we saw longer waiting times, while the free capacity of the private was not tried and was available only if you paid or had health insurance. This government has granted patients the right to choose treatment from approved private individuals, while the bill is taken by the public. Thus, patients do not take out health insurance or pay out of their own pocket to avail themselves of these offers. When people are in line with the public, while we know that private operators have free capacity, it is irresponsible not to use the available capacity. The alternative is that the private are just for those who have the fattest wallets. More than 40,000 patients have taken advantage of the free choice of treatment system and have come to health care more quickly than they would otherwise have done, or have received treatment from the institution that they themselves consider best suited. The average waiting time in the specialist healthcare service has been reduced by two weeks since 2013. In multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, waiting times are halved, from 67 to 33 days. People in need of mental health protection or drug treatment are particularly valuable in getting to treatment quickly. It is also important for many of these patients that there is a great diversity of offers, that it has a value in itself. Therefore, we ensured that these services were included in the free treatment selection scheme from the start, in 2015. Later, we have extended the scheme to cover several somatic services and rehabilitation services. The Directorate for Health is responsible for advising on the services to be included in the scheme. They do so on the basis of input from the main organisations, patient and user organisations and their own assessments. The Health Directorate shall also obtain input and views from health regions, with assessments of the concrete impact on the specialist health service of introducing services into the scheme. These include: to identify the risk that the phase-in of services would impair the ability of the other specialist healthcare service to fulfil its tasks. It is the government's ambition to further extend the free treatment choice system so that more patients are given greater freedom of choice and shorter waiting times. We aim to phase into the scheme several rehabilitation services and possibly other services during the first half of 2021. All patients using free treatment options have been assessed to be entitled to the necessary health care in the specialist healthcare service. That assessment must be carried out in the public service or in the case of private individuals authorised to do so from the health regions. It is therefore wrong that the scheme weakens public health, as some claim. The use of the scheme reflects the need for services. The aim has never been for patients to make the most of their choice of free treatment, but for waiting time to be reduced and for patients to be able to choose a treatment site. Patients choose another treatment site if they are not satisfied with waiting time, e.g. in his local hospital. Hospitals must also work to be more attractive to patients. The choice of treatment is not about who performs the service, whether it is a public or a private institution. It is about ensuring that all patients have a choice, and that they can experience short waiting times and get good and proper treatment without having to take out a health insurance or pay for it from their own pocket. The government aims to use all good forces to ensure that the population has access to good and equivalent health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11861	Thank you to the Council of State for a full answer. I could imagine that we also discussed – but it would not be appropriate to do here – what one could do to get more people to use the service as it appears today. I am convinced that some tariffs may be set so low that it is not interesting for anyone to offer this, and perhaps one could get more people waiting shorter through one of these things. I would also encourage the Council of State to have a look at the diagnostics that are not being used, whether there may be other things than economics, and that they may not fit so well into the scheme – that one has a critical look at what has been included in the scheme, while an extension of the scheme. I believe, as I said in my opening post, that more patient groups should be allowed to enter the service. Then there are some misunderstandings. Among other things, I was met in a newspaper post that, by free choice of treatment, patients could be forced to travel to another part of the country to receive treatment. But that's turning things around in your head. What it's all about is that if it's right for yourself, a travel can go somewhere else and get treatment. Some are then offered surgery almost at one day’s notice for some diagnostics, e.g. within the eye area. I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer and would like to see those who were against the scheme come here and tell us what they were against, so that we could have a proper and meaningful debate on it in this Chamber and not a rather caricious debate in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11872	This is more marked by a party meeting than a big debate! But I agree with the representative that one of the most important things we have to do is to make the system better known. Obviously, there are still many patients who are not aware of the good rights that actually exist. Patients do not have to deal with whether the options relate to one or the other financial instrument. All those who provide services where the public pays are available on the Velgtreatmentsplatz.no website under healthnorge.no. There will be a great opportunity to choose. One can then choose from waiting time, if that's what's important, but one can also choose from the fact that these places have a slightly different profile, a little different offer, or from geography, that there are some that fit better than others. No one asks why a chooser chooses it, this is a right that you now have as a patient. The free choice of treatment is part of the Patient Rights Act. This means that those parties who opt to remove free treatment options also opt to weaken patients’ legal rights in Norway today. It's also how we want to extend the scheme. I say that in the first half of 2021 we want to extend the scheme to several areas of rehabilitation, but it is also necessary to look at further expansion of it. The representative also addresses one of the challenges of the scheme, that there are some issues that have been raised in the scheme, on which there are no providers. It is the directorate that has to continuously assess whether the prices they set are making in terms of what is real. The prices of this scheme paid by the government must be low. That's a point in itself. This should not motivate, for example: private operators not to submit tenders when the public also buys through tenders, but it must of course be possible to operate with the prices that are. This is the directorate that makes a professional assessment of. I see that in the public debate there are some people who believe that this system weakens the healthcare system and drains it for money, but it is also turning the matter upside down. These treatments pay the public a lower price than what you do otherwise, and that means that if these tasks were to be solved in the public hospitals or at the premises of a private person has been agreed by tender, the cost of the public to be carried out would probably be exactly the same as it is now. I just want to hit a blow for healthnorge.no and choose the treatment site, and I think many will be positively surprised at what opportunities lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11889	Not everyone in health care wants to work in public. Not all patients find the best treatment in public health. We humans are not the same. That is why we need a diversity of offers, a diversity that is proportionate to the size of the country. Private services and other treatment methods do not mean that there is something wrong with the public offer; it just means and confirms that we humans are different, and that in some cases we need different types of treatment. Often, it is enriching, innovative and challenging, and it is involved in providing patients with faster treatment. 25,000 patients have received more rapid treatment as a result of free choice of treatment. There are 25 000 families who have had a easier daily life, and a large number of companies and organisations who have got an important employee back in their ranks. Free treatment choices exploit our total resources in a much better way than the public health service can handle. We know that private health services that specialise in, for example: ear-nose neck, treats far more patients per day than similar services in public hospitals. We also know that the public offer does not apply to all drug users. Several of the private options are driven by former drug users who have experienced the drug, who have known in their body how difficult it is to carry out detoxification. For some drug users it therefore has a better effect to join the three-month walking and sailing trips to the Road Out Foundation than to follow the public offer. There are many more examples. One important prerequisite for us in the Right is that regardless of whether a patient is taking treatment in public health care or in private, the community is going to pay for the treatment. A publicly funded health care system is the foundation block of the Norwegian health care system. It scares me that the red parties will remove free treatment options. We know that free treatment choices are an important reason why we have the card in the hospital queues. From the government shift seven years ago until the Corona arrived in Norway, the average waiting time decreased by 13 days. Saying no to free treatment options is the same as saying yes to longer queues, more pain in patients and longer periods outside of work, in other words, a situation such as it was before the government change seven years ago. A good interaction between our public health services and the 50 or so small private actors is what serves patients best. An important difference between the red parties and us in the Right is that we want to use and coordinate all available resources to provide people with treatment as quickly as possible. We have a good public health service in Norway. It's still going to be the core of our health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11908	To sum up, at least we who have taken part in the debate can agree on the following: For each patient using free treatment, health cows go down, for each patient using free treatment, waiting times are shorter, and for each patient using free treatment, society saves health costs. It's actually more reasonable, because the fares are lower. With regard to tariffs, I would like the Minister of Health to bring the following back to his people: when the tariffs are so low that no one uses the service, you have to see if the fare is right, or if you want to have a fare in that field at all, because we need suppliers to make this work. When it comes to making the system known, we get good help from the red-green ones, who tell us how trap this system is. But if we continue to tell our story – which is the truth, that free treatment is a good thing for patients, that it gives more freedom of choice and guarantees diversity – I think most people will use it when they themselves need help quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-13.ana.ud264e11917	The debate on substance is closed. And then 12 is over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
