ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U1	Honourable Members! We will begin to examine the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 1 October this year. On the agenda – draft decision on the legitimacy of the mandate of the President of Belarus. The Foreign Affairs Commission has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision on the legitimacy of the mandate of the President of Belarus. Please activate the procedure section! Are Members opposed to putting this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for this sitting? Members who object shall be asked to register. I see that there is no objection, no one has applied, no one has registered. We are therefore on the agenda and are starting to examine the draft decision on the legitimacy of the mandate of the President of Belarus. Member Rihards Kols on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U2	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, So on the draft decision of the Saeima, driven by the Foreign Affairs Commission, on the legitimacy of the mandate of the President of Belarus, in response to the Inauguration Ceremony of Alexander Lukashenko, held at the Minsk Independence Palace on 23 September 2020... The term of the Belarusian Presidency... which have been kept secret until the last moment and during which Alexander Lukashenko took the oath for the sixth term of office, thus further deepening the political crisis in Belarus. With this inauguration through the back door, the people did not give him a new mandate. This is why, first of all, the Saeima should stand up for respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. After more than 50 days of protest, our support for Belarus' sovereignty and for the well-being and fundamental rights of its citizens is constant and firm. On the basis of a statement by the Saeima on the presidential elections in Belarus adopted on 18 August 2020, and the conclusions of the Council of the European Union on 19 August 2020, confirming that the European Union rejected the results of the elections held in Belarus on 9 August, the entry of the draft such decision on the Saeima's agenda was logical. The recognition of Lukashenko as President of Belarus, due to the lack of democratic legitimacy of both the electoral and inauguration processes, is not possible and is in conflict with the principles of democracy and human rights. Large-scale peaceful protests continue to take place in the capital of Belarus in Minsk and in other cities throughout the country. Despite the repression and violence by the Belarusian authorities against the Belarusian people, the massive arrests and persecutions of the political opposition and civil society, large-scale peaceful protests are held again and again, expressing a constant demand for fair and free elections. In cases of international law and fundamental human rights violations and repression of human rights, silence will be consent, and Latvia must not become a silent participant in the violent repression of the will of the Belarusian people. As a democratic society, it is our duty to respond strongly to clear violations of fundamental rights and human rights, and it is our duty to support the Belarusian people, whose democratic will is still being repressed by the counterfeiting of elections and the violent repression of the rights of protests. The communication calls on the Belarusian authorities to immediately cease the use of force, violence, repression and other violations of human rights against the Belarusian people, and calls on the Belarusian authorities to refrain from any action aimed at establishing the necessary dialogue with the Belarusian people, civil society and the political opposition. We are also calling for the release of political prisoners. And because of the kind of crime that we've had in recent months... We must also give our firm support to both the investigations by international experts initiated by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on 17 September into human rights violations and fraud in the elections in Belarus and the work of the UN Human Rights Council to ensure that international organisations document and report on human rights violations, as well as to ensure the perpetrators of appropriate responsibility and the rule of law. It is our duty to respect and promote respect for human rights and the rule of law and, most importantly, our morals and ethics. We are talking about human rights, about freedom. Rights are not anything abstract or distracted from the everyday life of an individual. Although national forms of administration vary, Belarus is a member of international organisations such as the UN, the Council of Europe, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which unites the fundamental principle of human rights. These obligations require everyone to enjoy inalienable rights and fundamental freedoms. It is our duty to ensure that responsibility is imminent. I call for support for the Belarusian people in their efforts to regain their rights - the right to self-confidence and to elect their state power. There is always a time when silence becomes a betrayal. Consequently, on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for the draft parliamentary statement that has been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U3	Thank you. Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Last week, social networks were surrounded by the news of the secret inauguration ceremony of Lukashenko. It was so secret that at first I thought it was an ironic virtual fulmination. Lukashenko is so scared of the Belarusian people that he did not have the courage to hold a public event, not even a live broadcast on public television, because he would not be able to control whether journalists are kidding him or not stopping him with any unwanted statement or, for example, some of the demonstrations. It is not just a demonstration of fear; it is a violation of the laws of Belarus: the laws make the President's inauguration ceremony to announce in advance and keep it public, including to broadcast it in the public media. Our neighbour's head of state continues violently against his people, who have now been on the streets every day for more than a month, demanding fair elections in peaceful protests. Lukashenko's cowards are hidden behind the masks, armed militaryists, and with every step they dig themselves deeper into the international isolation pit. Although he is now in his hand with a certificate of President obtained with deceptive, deceptive and coercion, support for society is disgusting and is rapidly also in the midst of power structures. Colleagues! We, the Latvian Saeima and senior officials have already publicly expressed our opinion that the presidential elections on 9 August in our neighbouring country were counterfeit and... support for the Belarusian people's desire to hold new, fair elections. Today I call on us to take further action and to make a joint statement that we do not recognise Alexander Lukashenko as the legal leader of Belarus. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U5	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U6	Dear colleagues, Of course, the text of this communication is indisputable, there cannot be anything against it, it is all right, and I will, of course, vote in favour, but I have a question: what is the added value of this communication? The fact that Lukashenko is not a legitimate President has already been recognised by both the European Union and several... the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which I have the honour of chairing, adopted a similar statement three weeks ago, on 9 September. And don't take evil, Mr. Cole, but what does that look like? After all, Latvians have also awakened. Well, maybe that... Well, we don't look too good, because everything needs to be done in time. And inauguration has nothing to do with it. The fact that the elections were forged is known for a long time, and why is it a matter of concern to me? Because the adoption of the statement is such an illusion that we are doing something that we are really trying to influence this situation. But I believe that we have a much more effective means at our disposal. As if we accept a statement and - as we once said - we can go home with a feeling of deep satisfaction. But that is not the case. Still today, in Belarus, people are being detained and held in prisons, tortured and tortured. And I doubt that our statement can remedy this situation. Of course, I would never want to confuse the Commission led by Mr Kola, but I think we should all think very seriously about what we can do in practice to improve this situation. Not just political statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U7	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U8	Colleagues! Listening to the speeches of my colleagues, I really have to be surprised at how well we are focusing on the laws of foreign countries and knowing how well it is and which law was violated in Belarus, but we are not referring to our own laws. The Saeima, which has violated the law on medical pay matters - the Health Care Financing Act - will now, while recognising this, refer to another country it has violated. I, my fellow Members, will not be afraid to vote 'no'. Such people may be very few, and they may then be called in social networks by whatever word they have. I'm ready to do it, I've already gone through it. I can't support stupidity. I cannot support a statement which, among many good things, including the fact that we do not support violence, the fact that we support the OSCE's investigation into possible violations of human rights, also includes an open stupidity discrediting Latvia. This stupidity is simply called - without a fact check, we say in the form of a statement that the elections in which we did not participate as observers are forged. Colleagues, we could put it in the form of an assumption, we could question whether everything was really right there, but on behalf of the Saeima, we know very well what happened in another country where we were not at that time, is very unwise. Therefore, colleagues, I believe that, overall, this draft decision cannot be supported precisely because we have not also arranged our affairs in our country. But even if we had arranged these things, we would not have the right to interpret the laws of another country, to confuse the internal affairs of another country, in particular with regard to the presidential elections. I stress once again that, without supporting violence, without supporting all the other events that are currently taking place in Belarus... but to declare the things written in this draft decision are unreasonable and foolish. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U9	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U10	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Brief rejoinders to the assumptions made, allowances and accusations concerning the allegations contained in the notification. Mrs Stepanenko should probably really read the draft communication very carefully. We do not say at any time that the elections have been forged. We are making a clear reference to the international community of the European Union, which points out that the elections were neither fair, fair, nor democratic. But what comes in addition to this (and these are documented events that involve falsifying the results of specific polling stations) - this is not a fiction. As regards Mr Cilevičs, yes, thank you, Mr Cilevičs, that you have also expressed your support for this draft statement. The draft notification also has not only a simple decorative force, let's say... whether form and meaning, it also has legal consequences that after the adoption of such a statement, respectively, Alexander Lukashenko will become in the eyes of the Latvian state... Yes, as a normal Belarusian population with all the human rights that it possesses, but not with anything more! Documents (contracts or arrangements or others) that are... under which is the signature of Lukashenko below, is not binding on Latvia. This also applies to such an arrangement... or contracts concluded by Lukashenko with other countries or with instruments of international law. Consequently, they have rather direct and clear consequences. What about... too late. You said there was someone in September... So it's a clear word. I think that Latvia's position on 18 August was quite clear: not to recognise these elections as fair, fair or democratic, simply saying that we will not recognise the results that the Central Electoral Commission of Belarus has declared to be the final result. As far as inauguration is concerned, it is clear that in this period until the inauguration of Lukashenko's President's office was within the current mandate, so since the previous elections, where Latvia and the international community, either by default or by public expression, have recognised the legitimacy of this mandate. On the other hand, after the inauguration ceremony... where we have already pointed out that Belarus also has its own internal legislation, procedures that determine how the inauguration ceremony should be completed, but this is not a determining factor. In the light of the statement adopted by the Saeima on 18 August, it would be even illogical and incomprehensible if we were to remain silent after the inaugural ceremony. That would mean doing the same thing as the previous elections. By default, we would recognise the legitimacy of his mandate. So there are very practical reasons why this communication is today and now. So that's... it is short for the remarks that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U11	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U12	Dear President, Honourable Members! Belarus is, of course, our neighbour. And in 1994, I remember the Saeima delegation visited... The Foreign Affairs Commission visited Belarus. Then there was not Lukashenko. We were presented with a book entitled "Belarus's Archaeology". And it was amazing that these archaeology monuments were white-specific ceramics... white peoples, let's say. So the Belarusians are very close to us. And I think this statement is in place, but there should be some clarification. We, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Affairs Commission, should perhaps develop a concept of how we should treat the other CIS countries as well. For example, I look at Turkmenistan, President Niazov has ruled for 16 years, now Berdimuhamedov. In Kazakhstan, Nazarbayev has been president for 28 years. In Tajikistan, Rahmon, former function officer of the comparty, has been sitting since 1994, and has appointed a son as Chairman of the Upper House of the Parliament. I would like to remind you that Latvian entrepreneurs have a relatively good relationship and also quite successful cooperation with all these countries, and if, for example, the Tajikistan delegation comes, will we force the President of the Upper House of Parliament, who has been appointed by his father? But let's say, let's not talk about these countries, maybe... There is one difference in the case of Belarus. Belarus is the connected country with Russia. And what about the other side of this connected country, is there free to debate with the current President instead of being isolated and harvested or poisoned? We recognise there that obviously all the elections are fair. I think there are two ways. First. Either we accept such statements symmetrically for all CIS countries or, if not, for that country... This notice should be inserted after the words... ‘that Belarus was not free from Russia’, where we obviously believe that these elections are fair and free and that no candidates are removed there. Why do I emphasize Russia all the time? Because exports between 70 and 90 per cent of the Belarusian economy are directed towards Russia and logically, the majority of the population is not going to break this relationship either. We cannot really separate one country from another and pretend that Belarus would be completely independent in this respect, because they have not already repealed this Treaty of Union. The second option, in my opinion, is perhaps to admit that the Byzantine tradition is in the area of Russian influence, where there are strong authoritarian leaders who are not opposed by the majority of the population. I don't really know... either. precisely, how many people, let us say, outside the center of Minsk, may not even object to this Lukashenko. But the fact that there was violence there is, of course, unacceptable. Should this Communication be? Yes, we seem to show our will. I am calling for this to be supported, but I am just calling on everyone to understand that Russia has been writing Lukashenko for a long time. Those who look... and those that are perhaps related to foreign affairs and watching, for example, the same programmes, discussion programmes, where of course all these journalists are also agents of the relevant services, then their irony and, let's say, something like that... the texts are such that there will already be a new constitution and new elections and it is clear that we will get new, perhaps authoritarian leaders. I have great doubts that this will not happen without Russia's very strong influence. I can remind you that one of these presidential candidates, Babarika, was the President of Gazprom Bank. Well, does anyone here or in our Ministry of Foreign Affairs think that the opponent... It's like an oppositionist who's Lukashenko... A candidate against Lukashenko might be the head of Gazprom bank if he had not been agreed somewhere in Moscow or in the Kremlin. And also his coordinator, his election coordinator, who is now the second representative of the opposition. But, of course, it is the Baltic people's business and the Belarusians' internal matter of how to act, and we should perhaps be more concerned about our own Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we do not have yet, as I said, a concept of how our politicians and our entrepreneurs should behave in the former area of influence of the Russian Empire. And there is no doubt that when we come, let us say these 20-year-old dictators from Kazakhstan or Turkmenistan, or Tajikistan, both our Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister and the President will force their hands on them. I remember that the president of Uzbekistan was here in his time - then even one lady danced with him in Latvia! - who was involved in intense dissident torture and so on. So in the future we should perhaps be harsher in principle, perhaps with more self-esteem and develop our concept, an accurate concept of how to deal with these authoritarian countries, rather than always expect us to leave something from Brussels or Washington... or from Paris some idea. And what was already quite comical is that we - as President Macron called for - should have a dialogue, but we should not have a dialogue with Belarus, say, and we should not have to accept the elections as an accident. But I am calling for a vote: we already have no choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U13	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U14	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, colleagues! We already knew, in principle, that the 9 August elections would not be held in line with international standards. The Belarusian opposition candidates were arrested and no international observers were invited. And if, on the night of the elections, people gathered together at the districts with proof that the votes were not counted as they voted, it was not new, because this was Lukashenko's sixth attempt to get to power. This time the Belarusian society was not prepared to accept it, and it is our duty, Latvia, to support this seemingly fundamental principle of simple, formal democracy: one voter, one voice, fair representation. In Latvia, we often like to say that an official did not take the opportunity to remain silent, both at home and foreign policy. I am convinced, in turn, that it is our duty to choose not to remain silent - now and for as long as necessary - with bold and principled power in cooperation with the people, as has been the case with Latvia's support to Belarus - civil society organised protests, statements by the Saeima and government, as well as the symbolic "Baltic Way" of 23 August. Freedom for Belarus’, in solidarity with Belarus. Solidarity is often an undervalued and very important value, and we must continue to do so. Last week, the three Baltic leaders agreed to impose sanctions on 100 Belarusian officials responsible for and involved in the use of violence against peaceful Belarusian citizens. This must also be done at European Union level, and we must be able to agree on it. I'm also asked why we're mixing in matters of another country. But what is happening in Belarus, we know not only about the media. Many of us are born, friends, colleagues - arrested, arrested, laid off, tired, but not afraid. And we hear their demands, both at individual level and from the Belarus Coordination Council and its leader, Svetlana Tihanovska, for what the Belarusians now want: fair, fair and international elections. And we must support it. Latvia's foreign policy should not be emotional, but principled. I would never want to return to that rhetoric that human rights are important, but we should not forget the economy. In order to prepare this proposal, we have studied international opinions from international institutions on the conduct of the elections and the current violations of international human rights. We can say with full responsibility what we are saying at the moment. I was at the Baltic Assembly and its presidency from all three Baltic States has written a letter calling on EU senior officials to keep Belarus high on the agenda. Tomorrow I will speak at the Benelux Parliamentary Assembly... as the representative of the Baltic Assembly. On the issue of Belarus, too, solidarity must grow and we know that the Belarus elections held on 9 August were neither free nor fair and that Latvia does not recognise the results of the elections announced by it and therefore also does not recognise Alexander Lukashenko as the legitimate President of Belarus. I call for this statement to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U15	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U16	Colleagues, before I call on you to vote in favour or against, I want to tell you some details that, in my opinion, actually make our country... to a certain extent in such a strange state. We have always been such a spund for all holes when we have to make notifications about events outside Latvia. And then we are the wisest, often trying to be the first, and in principle it has always been wrong. It is not for nothing that you have just come here by the fine gentlemen who have shaken your finger and told you that you have to start international relations in a different way. In fact, it's very accurate. Mr Rinkēvičs and the foreign minister as a whole, including the Foreign Affairs Commission, have clearly and unequivocally pointed out that all the policies so far have actually been such a monologue, the rolling of such a small dog in the direction of its neighbours. And what is happening at the moment is essentially the same. You are calling for the law to be observed. I will remind you only of two details that are very painful for Latvian society. I am very sorry that none of the above-mentioned speakers, with the exception of Julia Stepanenko, have ever climbed into the parliamentary tribunal or have now, in the vebinary, called for compliance with the law... not a promise, but a law on medical salaries. None of you have called for the Parliament’s decision to repeal the OIC. I would remind you that OIC had to be abolished at the end of March last year. That was the decision of the Saeima. None of these Members, who are now calling for the law to be observed in another country, remembers their country in any way, because those who do not respect the law in their own country are those who are calling for the law to be observed in another country. Those are you, colleagues who spoke before me. And there's another thing, the most important thing. Every country - both Belarus and Latvia - has to fight its own country and its own democracy, its own independence must be the first. In Belarus, people themselves have to fight it, they have to want to do it. Also in Latvia. In Latvia, too, we must fight democracy, which we do not have. We are talking about democracy in a situation where we are the only country in the world in a group of so-called developed countries to which senior state officials are without a popular mandate. Is that democratic? We are referring to democracy elsewhere. We have a prime minister for whom no vote has been cast. We have a president who the people have not wanted. Incidentally, fewer people have voted for our President than Alexander Lukashenko (which I do not defend). But I am only talking about the comparison and the duality that exist in all these statements. So before we may again be an ordinary spund and want to please our electorate or something else, let us perhaps learn from Finland. Finland, as we know from history, fought with the Soviet Union. Finland suffered quite a lot, lost many areas, shed quite a lot of blood. What did you do after the war? Finland used the Soviet Union. Finnish goods in the Soviet Union were on the catch. Finland has built up its gross domestic product in trade with the Soviet Union and is doing so up to this day. To this day, we have a situation where our head of hateful neighbour travels to Finland, and even the President of Estonia goes there to meet the various needs... the necessary questions for their country. And nobody in Estonia or Finland has ever thought that the leaders of this country would be people who would not love their own country, who would not be patriots in their own country, who would not care for their own country. No, no! They are doing exactly what the politician has to do, not with flags running across another country and talking about democracy of another country and the interests of another country, but defending in works - in real works! - your country. Therefore, all these respecters of democracy and respecters of the law, I call all of you to prove that you are not double. Get up at the Saeima Tribute and say that the law must be enforced... Now. We're going to decide on the budget right away. The law on medical salaries, which had to be enforced for a long time... That OIC should now be repealed immediately, as this was the decision of the Saeima already at the beginning of last year and had to be implemented by 31 March last year. Get up and prove that this is not just your populist PR action. It should start first. And finished. Democracy, as I said, is won by the citizens of that country. And I also do Latvia... I call on the people of Latvia to fight their democracy in real terms. Democracy in which we do not (as Mr Kirštein said) have been described as another country where a leader places his son in office. We can find numerous examples in Latvia of relatives, lovers, old wounds or young ones who are placed in posts. We can find countless examples of party cartels, of pushing our people there and here. And then what do we differ? But that's fair, what do we differ with? Just because we're talking so beautiful and sweet? We do not differ with our works. And we have to start with works. Therefore, Latvian citizens, I also ask you to think about whether we should always be the first wisest in the interests of our country everywhere, but maybe we should be the first in the inside, here in our country, and start to defend the first interests of our country. We can all do this in the same way as the Belarusians. The Belarusians are truly outstanding in their protests. Gray, not aggressive, collect waste behind you, with imaginary, very European. And I think that we - Latvians and not only Latvians, but also Russians, Ukrainians, Jews living in Latvia - are not worse than hair. I think we can start as tasteful at last... and it is high time we started asking for democracy here, because you see that it is a way to try to distance the opposition from it. All these remote sittings and everything else. There are so many issues secreted. Procurement without tenders and everything else. And that's why, dear Latvian society, you have to go on the streets with the same taste. Learn from Belarusians! Perhaps even if you go to the streets, the leaders of other countries will come with the same statements about our power. For our power, which has not received the mandate of the people. There has never been such popular support for the right holders of our signature. Perhaps then foreign leaders will come with statements that changes need to be made here. And that is your task and duty, dear people. Your duty does not end and does not start only with going to the elections or grooming in the sofas. It is your duty to defend your country every day. It's your duty to stop suffering. Get up and act! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U17	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U18	Yes, honourable colleagues, Mr. Cole... I would perhaps like to call Mr. Cole... As we see the 'Development/About!' group. is a very carefully prepared speech in advance, then maybe you talk to each other that at the beginning of your speech shows you that it is not then, that there is something bad about it, because these verbatim reports that accompany decision-making will then be public... because I understand (A sound break.) ... that forged, and yes, Mr. Cole, I, well, the few lines that you have written, of course I can read. ‘ Fair, fair and democratic.” If we are talking about these terms, is it 'fair, just and democratic', for example, that Viņķele, who was removed, is actually running the country now, and is it 'fair, just and democratic', that the Saeima is not complying with the laws, and is it 'fair, just and democratic', that Covid-19 shields you from the situation in order to share money and make purchases without competition, and continues to do so outside the emergency situation? Is this all "fair, just and democratic"? Or, for example, another country that would have carefully observed Latvia's events over the last two years would also not want to write a draft decision that we should also end... you have to stop breaking the law, you have to stop simply not respecting the will of the voters... and so much else we could wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U19	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U20	Yes, hello, colleagues, again! I will certainly support this draft decision. And first of all, I would like to thank Alexander Kirštein, I very much liked what you said both in relation to Belarus and at all... such a general description of the situation. On this draft decision, I will definitely support it, because we need to have solidarity. And in general, there must be solidarity with the efforts of citizens and citizens of other countries for democracy, freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and much more. We see that, unfortunately, in the world at the last time, a great many of the things I have mentioned are being restricted. Yes, we must be joint and several, first and foremost, towards our neighbours, and Belarus is our neighbour, and whatever the case, Lukashenko is in power there, and we like or do not like it, simply, well, that is the fact. But it is clear that the moment is when citizens' dissatisfaction is so great that people go out early or late. And when civil society cries for change, then we, as neighbours, good neighbours, need to be sidelined and give them solidarity. Here's the time... Mr. Cilevič: either too late or too early... I also understand what Mr. Cilevič said, but usually he says so... Well, books say that the universe has no time to understand anything like that. But Latvians have such a saying: “Better later than never.” So, I think, it's all right here, too. Thank you to Mr Kola for the following draft decision. Looking at what is happening in Belarus at the moment, the times of Awakening and the times of the People's Front in Latvia come to my mind, and, by the way, those of the January barricades. It was so peaceful at first... a peaceful protest. Was it actually more of this kind of support, probably people on the winter island supported the changes that happened in Latvia at that time. I remember that the bloody events started not in Latvia, but in Lithuania. And why am I saying that? Because I was a witness to these events. When I started shooting in Lithuania, Ints Upmacis, who was working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at that time, I don't know if he was a deputy to Mr. Jurkan or he was... Some job was for Mr. Upmach: he called me: “Linda, could you (some four in the morning) come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because we need to ask for help.” And this is a story of solidarity. And then... at that time, of course, yes, we need help, and Mr Upmach told us very quickly, quickly what is happening in Lithuania. He said: “It’s just a few days’ question or a day’s question, and in Latvia too there will be something similar to us. We have an urgent need, until all communications are denied, to report abroad... for foreign media, news channels must report what is happening, because it may be when we can no longer tell anyone.” And we did it, we sent the teletext. Teletext -- well, those who are with me at the same age or parents, they probably know what I'm talking about right now, the new generation -- hardly. You can now view teletexts at a museum. And we asked... we informed about what is happening in Lithuania and a couple... Yes, then also in Latvia. We know what happened, we saw how it was, perhaps we talked about a little about it, perhaps we didn't talk quite openly about the events of January in Latvia, but definitely what we expected then - we expected the foreign country to support us, to support us in other countries, to support us, to support the major powers, to support us, to say the whole world, to help us. And that's why I'm going to vote in favour and I'm not going to go into some details. I think that the Belarusian people are currently waiting for the greatest support, perhaps not only in terms of draft decisions, but also in terms of real actions. That is why I am all the more happy with the activities carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs if, of course, they make sense. But they're already details. Speaking specifically about this draft decision - thank you and call for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U21	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U22	Yeah, thank you. I forgot to clarify, two more things I wanted to say. If we ever write similar statements in the next time, there should also be an objective write, for example, that Belarus did not recognise the occupation of Crimea, that Belarus did not recognise the separation of Donbass from Ukraine and Belarus, which is of strategic importance for the Baltic States, did not allow Russian troops to be deployed against the Suvalku corridors - something that could just be mentioned in that preamble. And since we have several new Members who may love talking a lot about democracy here... Another example I forgot to say... A very instructive example. I'm not gonna be late again. About Turkmenistan. In 1999, the Turkmenistan Parliament declared Niazova president-in-Office for life, while no opposition candidate was allowed. This president accepted the name Turkmenbashi, ‘Dad of All Turkmen’. A golden statue was built, turning the sun toward the center of the city. And suddenly this President died in 2006. And then, how do you think the election of the new President took place? Turkmenistan is a parliamentary republic. There elections take place very easily, just like in Uzbekistan and other countries. The leading generals of the armed forces, the leaders of the special units, the leaders of various anti-terrorism units, and at that time assessed which (A sound breakdown) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U23	Mr. Kirstein, we can't hear you. Mr Kirštein, we have not heard you last minute. ( Pause) Mr. Kirstein is not in the system anymore. Thus, if a Member is not present on the Saeima premises, he is responsible for both the quality of the Internet connection and the various technical matters related to the remote work. Members still want to debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U24	Yes, well, see to what leads to such remote, illegally organised sittings, such parliamentary meetings. This leads me to say that I do not have the opportunity to listen to Mr Kirštein to the end, although, as you say, this conversation broke out in the most interesting place. I would very much like to hear now what it means "Kirstein is not in the system"? Where he went to Mars now... Where did he go? Maybe someone... Maybe someone didn't want to hear what Mr. Kirstein began to say. And maybe someone is now threatening his health... As you can know, what is happening to Mr. Kirstein at the moment... after he's told the things we've just heard? What's going on here? This is a parliamentary sitting or a show, a circus or what? Yeah...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U25	Thank you, Mrs. Liepiņa for... So Mrs Liepiņa does not want to debate the specific draft decision. Members who work remotely, not in the designated Saeima premises, are responsible for the Internet connection... So Mr. Kirstein is back? ( Interface: “Yes. ”) ) Wonderful. So, Mr Kirštein, you have the floor to continue the debate. I am really glad that there was an opportunity to apply again. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Mr Kirštein, please apply once again to the system so that we can continue and complete the debate. Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U26	I'm sorry, because of the repairs we've got here, we're getting red on the Internet. There's my fault in fact, but I'll finish very quickly. So the leaders of the special service came together, counted who had a larger military unit at the capital, and made a decision. The decision was notified to Parliament and the Parliament announced the new President. And now we have President Gurbanguli Berdimuhamedov. And what is interesting is that all the leaders of the countries of the European Union will press their hands on an elected President in this way, because Turkmenistan has large gas stocks that have been sold to Russia, but it is also linked to Russia. That's why it's like a little smile. I call once again, yes, to support this statement. As I said, Belarus may, however, be a disparate country from these CIS countries. And next time we need a similar... And we're going to have to make similar statements... However, there should also be an objective emphasis on what this country has done in a positive way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U27	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Kola, is something to be added, to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U28	On behalf of the Commission, I call on Members to support the parliamentary statement prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U29	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft decision on the legitimacy of the mandate of the President of Belarus! Please, let's vote! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the decision was taken. Please activate the section on the procedure. Member Linda Liepiņa wanted to talk about procedural issues. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U30	Well, as this is again a new sitting, Mrs Mūrniece, I would like to say once again to my 44,662 voters that I believe that this Saeima sitting has been convened unlegislatively, against the order of the Constitution. And actually, yeah, that's it. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U31	Thank you. So I will repeat once again that the Saeima Bureau's explanation of the e-Parliament... The organisation of the parliamentary meeting on the e-platform has already been presented and has been presented several times. Let's keep going. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On approval of Andra Vilka as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U32	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined the draft decision on... more precisely, an application about the nomination of Andris Vilks as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia. It is recommended by the President of the Bank of Latvia Mārtiņš Kazaks. Andris Wolfs agrees. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, with eight votes in favour, three abstentions, three without participation... Yes, he has supported Andra Wolf's candidacy. Nobody doubted the suitability of Andra Wolf for this post. Most of the debates highlighted the question of how it could look... as regards the Bank of Latvia and... to put it more precisely, adding the Finance and Capital Market Commission to the Bank of Latvia, but, as I mentioned to colleagues, this is and remains the vision of the Head of the Bank of Latvia Mārtiņš Kazaks. So I ask you to support Andra Wolf's candidacy in this important position. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U33	Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U34	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The President of the Bank of Latvia Mārtiņš Kazaks has nominated Andris Vilka, former Minister of Finance for the post of member of the Bank Council. I would like to remind you that Andris Vilks is a symbol of austerity and belting policy and one of those persons whose irresponsibility and negligence led to the losses for the state of the joint stock company Liepaja Metalurgs and tens of millions of euros. I believe that the Ministry of Finance, under the leadership of Vilka and the Treasury, overseen the state-guaranteed loan to this company. When it was already clear to many experts and members of the Saeima that something was wrong with Latvia's largest industrial company, the Ministry of Finance, headed by Andrs Vilks, in response to a request and questions from members of the Saeima, came up with an explanation of how diligently and legally it had supervised the state guarantee “Liepājas metalurgs”. On February 6, 2013, the Ministry of Finance also announced about the same issue in reply to the parliamentary question about which particular institution and official is responsible for monitoring the commitments guaranteed by “Liepājas metalurgs”. The short answer is none. To be expressed in the official language, the supervision of state-guaranteed loans is carried out by various departments according to their competence, but in none of the departments there is a specified person responsible for the supervision of joint stock company “Liepas metalurgs”. Now, truly wonderful surveillance, which had nothing to do with real life! Other facts also show that there is insufficient monitoring of the company that received the State guarantee. In 2011, the Ministry of Finance and Liepaja Metalurgs wrote twice, requesting an opinion and rating assessment from the company. And that's all. The way in which the company goes with business, the Ministry of Finance has not been interested, only property valuations. In 2012, the Ministry of Finance suddenly noticed that the company's financial indicators deteriorated, although in fact “Liepājas metalurgs” worked with losses for years and requested explanations. The company responds that the indicators should be levelled off, and the Ministry led by Andra Vilka is absolutely sufficient to do so. All other requests for information to the company are equally formal. All this showed a lack of interest and simply negligence on the part of state-guaranteed supervisors in taking care of public money. Having found the failure of the forecasts presented by Liepaja Metalurgs against the deterioration of business plans and financial indicators, therefore, seeing that the business is starting to pick up in the abyss, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury conducted discussions and organised meetings during which they discussed financial activities and issues, as well as encouraged to update the business plan and start negotiations. That's it. Such negotiations were exactly two throughout 2012. Two conversations, including the visit of the Minister Andra Vilks to Liepaja and gratifying about technical progress in Liepaja company. Dear colleagues, Liepājas and many other residents of our country have not forgotten the actions of the then Minister of Finance during the crisis of Liepaja Metalurgs and the absolutely indifferent attitude towards the population, which many families of Latvia made desperate. At the moment it is difficult to tell Latvia how much it cost Latvia in terms of the number of visitors, so - because Andris Vilks is far away from the Latvian economy, the better. The people of Latvia must finally be held accountable for what they have done. THE INTERPRETATION group will not support the wolf, as it does not consider this person suitable for this post in the light of his previous activities. I call on the Saeima to vote against this candidate, and I call on Mr Kazak to look for another candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U35	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U36	Yeah. Now I'm very interested in... I hope you hear me now. I am very interested in how the prophecy of Jānis Urbanovičs will be fulfilled today. What was foretold yesterday before the Request Commission meeting. We were earwitnesses... I don't even know how to call it. Mr. Urbanovich, I think you have to go to the tributary... Well, I don't have to get off the platform... you must now go to this Saeima sitting and tell us what it was then, because if you listen to what Mr Agešin said, you want to say that your prophecy is slowly being fulfilled. What else in that prophecy was... Agešin will hand over the cans for “Liepājas metalurgs” (now that we have just seen), then you and Pimenov will be as “for” the Wolf, then Vāņa (which is Ribakovs, I understand that Vāņa might be Ribakovs)... Ribakov together with canned (preserved - they are then the New Conservative Party)... Wax together with canned will be “to”. And even more interesting to me, you said there that the voices of its YOUNG Unity would somehow be divided. Then I will also want to see the new entity vote there. Well, this is very interesting, this is... That's my first experience with the Saeima... Since I've been to the Saeima. Well, I mean, the last one, but maybe not. However, quite interesting work is already starting to stay. How am I going to vote? I had already made this decision yesterday before Mr Urbanovič's prophecy about what it would be like. Clearly, I understand that there are people who know how better it will be. Definitely, how and how to be... But now I'm with my little, quiet support... I will certainly support Mr. Wolf... Mr. Wolf was asked to vote in favour of Mr. Mārtiņš Kazaks. The Bank of Latvia is led by Mārtiņš Kazaks, and Mārtiņš Kazaks has the right, I believe, to choose a team, with which the bank is successful as well... our Latvian Bank is also successfully run. Today, I have heard a very strange comment by Gata Eglīks, why he will not support Mr Wolf in his canned spirit. They have estimated that in purely material terms... five members are sufficient, a sixth member is not required. First of all, I love the number six, so I'm about six, not five. I will always vote where there are six, not five, that is. And its economy is 100,000. What's up, 100,000? Now we're going to run out of the economy! Then you mentioned - the coalition, the government will then decide where to channel these 100 thousand. 100 thousand - so the cat's tears are in the money of your budget that you... where you swim. What are you... I don't understand what that is. But good. Mr Eglitis, you also have the opportunity - I am looking at you, you will be speaking after me. Then tell me your genius, it's not clear. But in the whole, I wish Mr. Wolf to pass this urban test. I wish you good luck! Mr. Kazak, all your responsibilities are with you. If Mr. Wolf is elected, my request will be to meet you, and then let's talk about how... I'm in a line of businessmen who have problems opening bank accounts... Well, mostly, yes... Either, by the way, also those who are Latvian citizens, including those who are resident - different... there are already different levels of problems. So take as many advisers as you need, take as many employees as you need, but please arrange so that our financial system, the Bank of Latvia and Latvian money are safe and that people can operate with their own resources. Mr. Kazak, I wish you all the best! Mr. Wolf, well, let's see how that Urbanovich prophecy is going to be there. There will or will not be, as says, the result of the study will soon be seen. I call on you to support Mr Vilka's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U37	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U38	Yes, hello, colleagues! I will briefly explain our motivation. That is how today the Bank of Latvia Council has five members, and here is the question of whether it is necessary to create this additional place in the Bank of Latvia's Council. We believe that this is not necessary, because a board with five members and a three-member board - that is absolutely enough. The creation of this sixth place in the Council requires at least, as has already been mentioned, more than 100,000 euros. And then, I must say: if, in these times of crisis - either the Bank of Latvia or Mr Kazak - there really is so much money, then it is safe to count on the state budget. And we in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) will decide how to direct it, say, for other purposes - whether it is education or health, or someone else less... So that's a simple explanation -- well, don't... We do not need to create another new place in the Council, with five absolutely enough. That's one. Second. I also wanted to touch on the issue of the activities of the Bank of Latvia in general. I have to say that I still do not have a very clear strategic vision of both Mr. Kazaks and the management of the Bank of Latvia as a whole, because I think not only do I think that enough people have such an impression that the Bank of Latvia, yes, produces some economic accounts there, the coins for which I don't know, but... but it does not really be able to address qualitatively the issues that should be addressed. Here I would like to emphasise a number of things. Let us tell you what is a problem in the Latvian financial sector. It's lending. For some third or fourth year in a row, Latvia has the lowest lending in the Baltic States. That's the first. Second. Bank accounts. We can see that there are problems. We've come to the second ditch with this major financial repairs. Third. We see that in a mass way Latvian companies emigrate, I would like to say to the Lithuanian financial system... both through Revolut, Paysera and so on. And these are major macro-level problems, which would also have time for the Bank of Latvia to address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U39	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U40	Hello, fellow Members, again! I will also mention some of the reasons why we will refrain from supporting Mr Wolf today. One... Since currently the Bank of Latvia, as has already been said, is a serious structural... In the face of structural reforms, the possibility of connecting the FCMC to the Bank of Latvia has been seriously considered. Consequently, the allocation of functions, as well as tasks, should be clarified for the staff in charge. This is... The other thing is that from the board and the board now 12 people's teams are being formed in a team of six people, who will be the council, but already as an executive body. Then it is also the moment to seriously consider the possibility and, I would say, to implement a complete change in the procedure for the election of the members of the Council. This debate has also been launched by professionals in the public space in the context of Mr Vilka's nomination, and these considerations are, in my opinion, very correct. One consideration is that each member of the Board in such a situation must be independent, similar to that of other independent bodies such as the SPRK, such as the FCTC, and not the President. Second recital. If the executive board is an executive body, the more candidates should be selected on a competitive basis, perhaps even on an international basis, in order to obtain the best candidates. In this situation, I would also say that, at this time of change, either we do not rush to nominate candidates until the bank structure is strengthened, or at least this should be the Council's joint decision that such a nomination is being made. Second recital... Especially if the management of the Bank of Latvia becomes an executive body, people working in it must be politically neutral. For his part, Mr Wolf has repeatedly emphasised that he is not a politician, that he is an expert, that he was just enticed into political networks for a moment and left it at the first chance. However, there is no doubt that Mr Wolf has been very active in public space, even in the absence of politics, in expressing his opinion by supporting certain political forces. It's maybe not so bad at all - if you're a member of a party, you may have some sort of sympathy. But this view has been very active and aggressive in dividing the political forces between the good and the bad, and in no way is neutrality in the expression of political opinion. The fact that you may not have a political party stamp at a given time also probably does not mean that you have changed your sympathy or heart. And I doubt that Mr Wolf could be really objective in his work, even though Mr Kazak, for his part, has shown that the negotiations have been carried out and that it is very important for him that each member of the board is politically neutral. Because these are some of the considerations why we as a group, as I said, will refrain today from supporting Mr Vilka's candidacy.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U41	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U42	Hello, colleagues! Today I wanted to remind you... I wanted to refrain from assessing the personality of a particular candidate, but to remind more that last November the Saeima adopted and the President of Latvia seemed to have announced in December the law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”. They provide, among other things, that the Cabinet of Ministers must submit to the Saeima by 31 October of this year a draft law aimed at adding the Financial and Capital Market Commission to the Bank of Latvia. The situation is that we are now at the end of September, but at least I'm even a project... Well, I do not, of course, participate in the relevant working group, where perhaps such a project is being developed, but I have not seen such a project for the bill. I don't know, maybe someone else has seen. What do I have concerns about? I have some concerns about the fact that there are currently five members of the Board in the Bank of Latvia, therefore, hypothetically six are possible, whereas the Financial and Capital Market Commission now has three members of the Board. And if the Financial and Capital Market Commission were to be attached to the Bank of Latvia, then of course, it would be expected that the leading employees or the respective members of the Board would continue to play some part in this key role in the context of the Bank of Latvia, also in the Council of the Bank of Latvia. So far, this possibility has been voiced in various discussions that, if it were to be in the Bank of Latvia... which members of the Board would terminate their mandate, then their seats should be left empty, so that, once the Saeima adopts this potential draft law on the addition of the FCMC to the Bank of Latvia, without unnecessary problems, without undue compensation, it would be possible to migrate them into the supervision of a commercial bank and the financial sector in general... professionals specialised in this supervision to the managing authority of the Bank of Latvia as well. And it would seem to me only logically to leave this potential position in the Bank of Latvia's Council at the moment, because I expect that the law will be fulfilled - that is, the law adopted by the Saeima and announced by the President of Latvia - because I believe that the law must be fulfilled. And I would expect it to be presented to the Saeima quickly enough and finally accepted by the Saeima and will not happen... and it will happen very quickly, in this parliamentary term, and certainly not sometime later. With this right faith working, I'm only acceptable... and this only reinforces my conviction that it is necessary to leave this council empty, and perhaps if another member of the Board of the Bank of Latvia terminates his mandate, if someone falls due or retires, then that place should also be left empty, so that there is more room for manoeuvre without unnecessary additional costs, and then combine this new Council of the Bank of Latvia. In addition, knowing what problems entrepreneurs have in terms of cooperation with commercial banks and commercial banks - cooperation with supervisory authorities, and there are misunderstandings, which results in entrepreneurs who have problems in securing expected economic transactions, it may be appropriate to consider that a lawyer is more likely to be needed at the Bank of Latvia's Council at the moment. Well, that's... This is just my subjective opinion at the moment. So in short, I am refraining from assessing the candidate in question, but I would also ask Mr Kazak and my colleagues to think at all about whether, in the case of knowing that the law has been passed and the law has to be fulfilled, these places should not be left empty in order to avoid problems and unnecessary expenditure in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U43	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U44	Yes, honourable colleagues! Dear colleagues and especially Mrs. Dana Reizniece–Ozola! Now it's strange, especially from you, to hear the absence of political neutrality of someone who has a high position. What you have just criticised Mr. Wolf. I know one bright politician in Latvia who has held the position of Minister for Economic Affairs for years, the position of Minister for Finance, who has been a very bright leader of the FAO for years and whose husband has led the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia for years. In Mrs. Ozola's case, I'm not talking about you now? This isn't that a little bit of a duality on your part? I understand that you may have such an opinion, but if the FAO had such an opinion, you would have allowed someone else to express it, because it sounds terrible from your mouth, knowing the stories about how the Latvian Investment and Development Agency has been working with Latvian entrepreneurs and against their interests for many years. Now you're... No, no... You can rarely surprise me, but this was also a surprise for me right now. You shouldn't have done that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U45	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U46	Dear colleagues, I would like to respond immediately to Mr Eglitis. Mr Eglitis has thought about austerity, and very well. But maybe we should have saved at the beginning of party financing... EUR 5 million for party funding? Because, as we can see, it doesn't work at all... So, maybe we'll cancel... At first, let's say... That will save much more. It doesn't work because... Mr. Zuzāns also welcomed members of your party - about the... voting. It was such a warning before the beginning of the work of the new Riga City Council: “Do not touch my gaming halls!” So everything is happening, and sponsors' money is still circulating and working in politics. The funding of the parties from the Treasury did not change anything at all. So I think it's better to save, let's say, more money in that plan than otherwise. If we are talking about Mr. Wolf's candidacy, there is a very difficult dilemma here because... In fact, I was inclined to vote against Mr Vilka, and I personally have a lot to say about Mr Vilka, perhaps an unpleasant attitude in view of his past as a finance minister. And to understand Mr. Kazak's motivation... and also Mr Vilka's motivation to take up this post, we, as independent Members, met Mr Vilka and Mr Kazak and listened to the vision and motivation of the future, why it is... and what happened in the past. I understand that Mr Vilka can be blamed for his support, as Minister for Finance, of this Pandora box on the introduction of real estate tax on housing, thanks to the guidelines of the International Monetary Fund. He would be guilty of it! And I very much hope that when I see what is happening on this issue at the moment, Mr. Wolf has a very bad feeling, but I also realized that, as far away from Mr. Wolf, politicians such as Valdis Dombrovskis will be held up, who is actually the most guilty of all the event that we call the 2009 crisis... The more you get from Mr. Wolf, the more you get to be one of Unity politicians, the better you're going to be. And maybe Mr. Wolf has understood that it was a great mistake to be familiar with one another. Therefore, my decision is now based on my own, let us say, hope that Mr. Kazak - as the Bank of Latvia perhaps, such a more human face - will now be able to make changes in the activities of the Bank of Latvia and to serve as a wise advisor in the economic recovery of Latvia. And I very much hope that the question that we are discussing, which I think is all... even the priority issue of closing corporate accounts with banks... on the acceptance of unwelcome banks... Even on the issue of basic accounts... or maybe also a financial service set up by a public authority... because I think everyone understands that money is leaking, companies are closing down, and our economy will simply have no money anymore... That is why this difficult decision, the difficult decision, is to vote in favour of the Wolf. But I think... I will support Mr. Wolf's candidacy only because I trust the authority of Mr. Kazak and because maybe Mr. Wolf, as we learned, Mr. Kazak needs how... well, as a system manager in the Bank of Latvia and a vehicle for change. And I thought I could work! Mr. Kazak's team! We give credit, very big credit, and hope that... We hope to see good changes as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U47	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U48	Hello, dear colleagues! I can't see that... Today, there are quite some contradictions in the speeches of several Members when they speak. Perhaps many still think, doubting support - to support or not. Maybe I'm just... I will try to express my thoughts, my vision, because it may help each other focus on their own decisions. For me, this process in relation to Mr Vilka makes me remember when we discussed Mr Kazak's candidacy. A number of opinions were expressed in different ways, too. And I... Remembering your opinion... At that time, I had one argument, or concern about Mr Kazak's candidacy, that he was at the time a representative of a foreign bank. So a representative of a bank in another country. Well, I'm always worried, because if you've worked for a foreign country or, let's say, business... In the interests of the entrepreneur, then, or otherwise, there may be a situation where there will always be an attempt to remember - more or less - any commitment. A similar situation, in my opinion, is now also with Andris Vilka. And it's not just political here... Maybe previous membership... I think Mr. Kazak may be welcome to Mr. Wolf's presence... exactly about that... for the reason I have already mentioned. For the fact that... Mr Wolf has also obviously been closely associated with the representation of another country's unit, bank, agency. However, I would be very careful to draw conclusions (positive in this case). And I actually agree with Mr. Eglitis that the Bank of Latvia has not already fulfilled, let us say, the promises... for this moment. I can also remember from the representatives of the rural people that the promise was made to tackle the positive issues of lending in rural areas, the lending of young families. There is nothing like that right now! And that's because neither the State nor the Bank of Latvia is obviously capable of influencing their situation, because the interests of commercial banks that are not our state's commercial banks are opposed. And for the time being, in my view, the interests of these commercial banks, let's say lobbying or... decisions are good for them, not for the people of our country. That is why I will abstain from voting... probably. Others who have doubts would also be encouraged to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U49	Thank you. Colleagues, let us finish this matter and then go on a break. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U50	Hello, colleagues! Yesterday, a group meeting was held in which the vote on Mr Vilka's candidacy was decided. The issue was examined from two fundamental points of view. The first aspect is professional efficiency. And the second is political neutrality. The first is about professional efficiency. My colleague, Mr Agešin, has already mentioned today that some of our constituents will never forgive Mr. Vilka that his actions or, more precisely, his inaction led to the elimination of the “Liepājas metalurgs”. And so hundreds of people, hundreds of families were broken... the fate was broken; they were forced to change their profession or to move to other Latvian cities or to leave Latvia at all. And they'll always remember this and never forget it. Second. I personally had a question why Mr. Kazak wanted Mr. Wolf directly in his team, because everyone knows that Mr. Wolf is a success story minister who worked both at Valdis Dombrovskis... in several governments, both Straujuma at the Cabinet of Ministers. Even before that, Mr. Vilka worked (you could check) in the Association of Commercial Banks of Latvia and led a committee that was responsible for monetary policy. This was in 2006. We all remember very well what happened to the banks and with loans in 2006. And - did that not be the basis for the bubble, which then became the basis of the big crisis, which could have led to a success story about Valdis Dombrovskis and Andris Vilka as the most successful finance minister in Europe? Why is he successful? Because it was appreciated by the political elite of Europe and Latvia. How, though, did people appreciate the value of our constituents? Our constituents have appreciated this so far. And their position is unequivocal: 'no'. We had a very serious conversation yesterday, and I was an initiative for our group - it was our group itself, without the presence of Jānis Urbanovič! - vote in favour of our group's mandatory vote. And that decision was made. You can be sure of our decision in a few minutes. For my part, Mr. Kazak would like to say the following: if you so need Mr. Wolf's experience, you could order him a study... Maybe not one, maybe several. I do not think that, in order for Mr Wolf to share his experience with you, it is necessary to hire him with a high salary. I would very much like the capacity of the Bank of Latvia - scientific and intellectual - to serve the state of Latvia and the people of Latvia. And I look forward to the opinion of the Bank of Latvia on the budget for 2021, especially on how much money... how billions will be received in Latvia and how structural they will be distributed; what problems could be between budget allocation... between the state budget and the municipal budget, and so on. I'd offer you... call, however, to concentrate on your existing command... starting with this question. But I wish Mr. Wolf... You've been out of politics for six years. And I think this return is a little too early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U51	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U52	Yes, colleagues! Many of these arguments were expressed in a very long and, for example, a thorough meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. And despite all this, eight members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, a convincing majority, voted for Andris Vilka as a member of the Board of the Bank of Latvia. I invite you to support Andris Vilkas as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2118-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Andra Vilka as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”! Please, let's vote! For - 45, for - 21, for - 6. (Applause) Decision adopted. Congratulations to Andris Vilka and wish you success in the Council of the Bank of Latvia! Dear colleagues, The agenda for the second extraordinary meeting of 1 October has also been examined. Members are currently registered. It has been successfully completed. I therefore closed my second extraordinary session on 1 October this year. We will return to the Chamber in Colonel 15.30 and continue to discuss the agenda of the meeting on 24 September. Interruption until 3.30 p.m.
