ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let us begin the sitting on 27 February 2020. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Valainis (Sitting driver knocks down with hammer.) ... Members Valainis, Augulis, Reizniece-Ozola, Dauge, Krauze, Kučinskis, Vacāns and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U2	Good morning, colleagues! The parliamentary committee of inquiry has finished its work, has come with opinions and has, in principle, confirmed what the Saeima has already decided once. Unfortunately, this has not been fully heard by the government. I call for this issue to be put on the agenda today, and even after the final report by the panel, to be discussed, the draft decision, and each group should also take a position in the debate. This draft decision is intended once again to instruct the government to abolish the components of compulsory procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to the inclusion of an own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the sitting? ( FROM a political group: “There is no objection! ” ) There are no objections. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Chemical Substances” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 226 Latvian citizens “On banning food packaging containing bisphenol A”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. And Members Valainis, Augulis, Reizniece-Ozola, Dauge, Krauze, Kučinskis, Vacāns, Bergmanis, Jalinska and Dūklavs have submitted a draft decision - the own-initiative proposal on the abolition of the compulsory procurement component. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For granting unpaid leave to member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė on 5 March 2020. Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the granting of unpaid leave to member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė on 5 March 2020! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Report by the Saeima Bureau on the closure and opening of the parliamentary session. Draft decision on closing the parliamentary winter session in 2020 and opening the spring session in 2020. The draft decision provides for the closure of the Saeima winter session on 6 April 2020 and the launch of the spring session on 14 April 2020. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima's 2020 winter session and the launch of the 2020 spring session! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision “On the dismissal of Gunita Galiņa, a judge of Kurzeme district court from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U4	Good morning, dear colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 18 February, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Gunita Galiņa, a judge of Kurzeme district court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Gunita Galina, a judge of Kurzeme district court, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U5	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Gunita Galiņa, a judge of Kurzeme district court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Decision on the approval of Zita Studentes as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U6	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 18 February this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Zita Studentes as a district (city) court judge’ was examined. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to confirm Zita Student as a district (city) court judge without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U7	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Zita Studentes as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On approval of Jānis Bombiers as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U8	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 18 February this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Jānis Bombiers as a district (city) court judge’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to confirm Janis Bumbieris as a district (city) court judge without any limitation of his term of office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Jānis Bombiers as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is "The establishment, approval and examination of the reports of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry". Parliamentary Investigation Commission of the Saeima on the objectives of introducing OIC aid, impact, criteria for receiving aid, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and the final report on damage and actions by law enforcement authorities’. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Ieva Krapāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U10	Good morning, Mrs. Moore. Good morning, colleagues! The Parliamentary Investigation Commission was set up by a decision of the Saeima of 23 May 2019. The Commission was set up by Members of all parliamentary groups to ensure the highest possible level of objectivity for the result of its work. The Commission consists of seven Members: Ieva Krapāne, Mārtiņš Šteins, Romanas Nadiņš, Atis Lejiņš, Sandis Riekstins, Jānis Adamsons and Viktors Valainis. The Commission acted within the scope of the law and respected the rights of the person established in the Constitution, including the principle that any person can only be found guilty according to the procedure established by the law. A total of 27 meetings took place, hearing 52 persons. On 19 February the Commission approved the final report and concluded its work. The Commission answered all 88 questions asked by the Saeima. In general, we concluded and noted that, already in 1995, when the first aid scheme was set up, there was no justification for the double rate of State aid payments; the impact on the economy was not assessed when setting the aid intensity and the target for over-compensation. The support system has not been transparent and coordinated and monitored over the last 25 years. For 25 years, the State Executive has ignored research and warnings about the situation's inconsistency with Latvia's circumstances. There has been no justification for a system of aid for which no proper coordination from the European Commission has been obtained at the time of its creation. The decisions taken on the mandatory procurement of electricity focus on the support of certain operating economic operators and not on providing a solution that is in the public interest. The situation has been aggravated by unlawful conduct by individual economic operators, and unfair economic operators continue to do so. In a context of executive power with the establishment and progress of the OIC, the principles of public administration have been seriously ignored. In assessing the responsibilities of individuals for the emergence of the situation, the Commission noted that throughout this time the Ministry of Economics was responsible for the sector and agrees with all Ministers as policy-makers and all State Secretaries of the Ministry of Economics as policy-makers and implementing organisers. At the same time, the Commission has concluded that, subject to compliance with the legal order of the Republic of Latvia, all officials who have been involved in the adoption of the relevant legal norms during these 25 years, in particular the Prime Ministers, the Ministers for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Ministers for Agriculture and the Ministers for Justice, as well as the Members of the responsible Saeima Commissions who, being informed about the situation, did not fulfil their duties laid down in the Constitution to protect their national and national interests. The state aid system currently in place in Latvia is not in accordance with the interests of the Latvian people and must be immediately abolished. God bless Latvia and do not allow our people to experience such things again! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U11	Let's start a debate. The name is Ralph Nemir, Minister for Economic Affairs. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection. ( INTERPRETATION FROM THE GROUP: “Two hours will you speak? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, First of all, I would like to thank all those Members who were involved in the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. It has been a very large volume. We have sent several thousand pages of documents from the Ministry of Economics. And in this case, we hear from the troupe that it has really been implemented illegally and that this system has not been assessed, that the solvency of our citizens has not been taken into account, nor that the impact of this system on the economy has been taken into account. I have drawn up a bill that states that we are repealing the OIC. This issue is not about the economy but about the rule of law: is this system established legally or, on the contrary, illegally? And that, of course, is the result. The abolition of OICs could lead to an average household electricity bill of 15 percent, which could be a framework of around 40 million, leaving households to meet their needs and needs. In this draft law on the abolition of the OIC, I did not request the abolition of the mandatory procurement system because it is not essential whether we buy electricity from Latvenergo, for example, or from renewable energy producers. The most important thing we want is to abolish this over-compensation. This overcompensation results in our bills, we see it as components. The right way is undoubtedly when we pay for electricity at the stock exchange price. The price of the exchange is based on clear principles. On the other hand, this overcompensation has had a major impact on our households and the economy as a whole. That is why I will ask for this draft law to be passed on to the Saeima, to support it, to evaluate it; to assess the rule of law or, on the contrary, to evaluate the illegality. Therefore, dear colleagues (Dep. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) , I submitted this draft law to the head of the CPV LV group and I hope that it will make progress in the future in the Saeima. Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U13	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U14	I, too, want to combine...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U15	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “You can give more!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U16	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Colleagues! Resurrection! Although the parliamentary committee of inquiry has concluded its work, the government and the Ministry of Economic Affairs must take this seriously. It is necessary to strengthen the monitoring and control system of OIC, to eliminate the OIC payment to Latvian citizens. Parliament must continue to monitor the OIC system, and regularly call on the law enforcement authorities to account for the progress made in combating and detecting the illegalities of the OIC system. The capacity to investigate infringements of the OIC system needs to be strengthened. The Commission's final report will be of substantial benefit to the public if decisive action by the responsible authorities is followed. To the extent possible, we answered all the questions and reached conclusions. I would like to highlight a number of conclusions from the final report of the Commission. The OIC system lacked evidence-based decision-making. Prior to the adoption of the law and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, the impact of OIC on the solvency of electricity end-users (consumers) was not qualitatively assessed. Nor has the impact of OIC on the competitiveness of Latvian entrepreneurs been assessed. We must finally introduce evidence-based decision-making. I think that criminal activity in the OIC system resulted from poor policy planning. The implementation of the OIC lacked a single national energy policy, sectoral policy planning documents, and a long-term strategy for the sector. In the OIC system, not only external regulations were not qualitatively developed, but also internal regulations; there were no or no internal regulations. The OIC system did not provide timely and appropriate parliamentary control on the part of the Saeima. For example, when the Electricity Market Act was adopted on 5 May 2005, which took over the Council of Europe and Parliament... Council Directives, the law included a provision that the costs of mandatory procurement of electricity are covered by all end-users of Latvian electricity in proportion to their consumption of electricity. It turns out that the Saeima adopted this law in an urgent procedure - in two readings. There was almost no debate. The majority of Members who still work at the Saeima today voted in favour of this law. Some Members both debated at first reading, including Member Jevgenija Stalidzāne, pointed out that very quickly we want to adopt very serious things, which will then have extremely serious consequences for us, whereas at second reading there was almost no debate on 90 proposals. It was not responsible for the actions of the Saeima at that time, in 2005. There are a number of documents that show the problems. For example, the Annual Report of the State Audit Office 2013, the Annual Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers 2017. Studies have been carried out in recent years. I invite the present decision-makers to take this information into account. The lack of staff also continues to prevent the monitoring of OIC stations and the detection of irregularities. The shortage of staff has been in the whole process. A positive commission evaluates (and I also value) that the control mechanism is being arranged, assigning responsibility for it to the State Construction Control Bureau. However, the Commission points out that the office is able to test only 50 stations per year in person due to the lack of employees, although in Latvia as a whole there are 324 stations. The current system of civil servants' remuneration also limits the attractiveness of experts and therefore lacks human resources. The Commission also found that the influence of the lobbyists could not be assessed, as the openness of lobbying does not exist in Latvia. The Commission’s task was to assess the impact of the various public bodies and lobbyists on the amendments to the laws affecting the OIC system and on the interest in which the amendments were initiated. However, it was not possible to carry out the research because there is no appropriate regulation in Latvia. The positive is that there is now a group of MEPs in the Saeima (led by Inese Voika) who have taken the lead in developing the transparency framework for lobbying. This regulation should have been introduced many years ago. The Commission also found that there was a lack of cooperation between the institutions and that the level of responsibility in the system was very weak. It could even be said that the times of cooperation between controllers were not at all. Most of those interviewed in the Commission did not remember what they decided with their colleagues; they trusted and hoped that others would do everything, even though they were involved themselves. The Commission concluded that there were officials who tried to change the system but that it was not an excellent job for anyone, as improvements should continue to be introduced. I would like to point out that the format of the parliamentary committee of inquiry is not intended for the evaluation and elimination of a criminal scheme such as the OIC, but I underlined this before the committee was set up. We have found in the Commission, and also indicated, that the format and framework, as well as the quantity of materials and technical support are not suitable for carrying out such an investigation. Unfortunately, the Commission’s format is not a particularly effective tool. Although I believe that certain phrases in the report are too declaratory, for example, a recommendation to the Saeima to adopt a new... declaration, I generally support the conclusions set out in the Commission's report. I would also like to call for a critical assessment of the individual views of the Member, Mr Valaiņa, and of the content of his statements in the media, since he drew some conclusions from the Commission report and from a series of... part of his separate thoughts does not have the information at all... By the way, it should be pointed out that Mr. Valaiņš seems to be the only Member... the only member of the Commission who has worked as Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and who has already been able to initiate a number of changes. ( The box “Aiii! ”) ) I believe I am - I believe I am! - worked in good faith on this commission. Perhaps this is also reflected in the fact that I was one of the two Members who requested all information from the Commission's secretariat. In conclusion, I would like to call on Members, the Saeima Bureau and the government to strengthen the analytical and legal services in order to make a significant contribution to the quality of legislative work, and to call for resources to also strengthen Members' support staff. Latvia today no longer deserves OIC schemes...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U17	Thank you. The debate, including the joint debate, is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U18	... and the influence of oligarchs on legislation. Thank you. (Applause) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U19	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U20	Colleagues! I really want to thank the entire commission. The work was intense. Indeed, I can say that the members of the committee did not, however, work without political coverage and there was no desire to defend someone. And in a way, the final report is also objective. But there were reasons why I added my own thoughts. Yes, absolutely right, Mr. Stein, I have worked in the ministry. It is also absolutely true, Mr Stein, that Juris Puce has issued 502 permits. And you could ask him how he's done. But in general... in general, on this report and on the way in which the OIC has emerged, I would like to draw up three stages. Three stages. The first stage began quite a long time ago - even when there was such a politician Maris Gailis... and “Latvia’s way” - there was also such a party. And during this party's reign, this double payment was introduced for hydropower plants or the so-called hesses. The so-called hess had such a double aid, and at that point, the whole of this here, too, began in principle... These entrepreneurs understood how profitable business is. And the question is, did hesus try to limit it? Yes, they tried to limit, but unfortunately they were not politicians who tried to limit them. Hesus was limited by nature to environmental friends, environmental guards together with the Ministry of Agriculture at the time, and they achieved this restriction. Without these environmental activists, nothing like that would have happened. Hesi would have continued to develop, and the rivers would have been blocked, and the destruction of nature would have continued. But all of this slowly marked the way in which entrepreneurs can make a very significant profit. And then it came in 2005, and that's the next Decade. The next Decade, which actually laid the foundations for all these authorisations to start, all these big payments, all this controls that took place in the years to come. And, colleagues, whatever, Mr. Stein said - as a matter of urgency, in two readings, the Saeima... However, the political leader was the government, and the Minister for Economics was Krišjānis Kariņš, who chose this path and still thinks that it is the most correct way to go in this direction to support OIC payments. And introduced this new approach - that these aid payments are shifted to the shoulders of households without assessing at any time whether their households can even pay for these here... to make these payments. In my opinion, this was a major political mistake: no other type of instrument was assessed, other ways in which we could get to the best solution. These solutions were adopted, and then one super-responsible one - it is impossible, because everyone on the basis of this law simply adopted, what good rules entrepreneurs want, simply shared these permits, and, of course, recordists are sitting in the government right now. The main recordists are still in government! And, colleagues, I think, to a large extent, for that reason the control mechanism is not present either. There are no control mechanisms, even though negotiations started from 2011 on the need to start restricting, controlling... Control mechanisms are not yet today! It is only declaratory: “We control!” But we see schemes with self-consumption, where large production facilities... Just cheating and stealing from state money! Half of them should be closed! Nothing happens. There are two three public speakers, and the same two three... the country's damage: two and a half million. Colleagues and Mr. Stein! You should follow the work of the commission more closely. Because what has been taken from my report is reflected in the Commission's report, not the other way round. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Who was the first – chicken or egg?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U21	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Interface: “Why don’t you work for the commission? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U22	Hello, colleagues! The result of the work of this committee has not disappointed all those who thought that parliamentary investigation was simply an empty, pointless waste. What have we gained in nine months? In nine months' time, we have obtained just what everyone already knew - general public declaration that ministers are responsible, State secretaries are responsible. All of this was already known. Question to the Commission: how did you really shape your agenda? Why have you produced your own report, with which I have come to know carefully, about the stories that have been told you there, in your commission? Instead of taking the documents to take the official evidence by which you can draw much deeper, more well-founded conclusions - instead, you have produced your report on the stories you were told by those who came and were responsible for this passage they had made, from which they benefited. On the basis of their testimony, on the basis of what they said, you have made your report! Plus - of course, really trying to get that rational grain out of this report... But you have not done the most important task. We cannot see these proofs specifically here today - what has then really happened to this afero. You were assigned a specific task that had to be fulfilled. Unfortunately, these are the most important places... in response to these tasks, you simply write that the commission had no time, no resources to fulfil them. Johaidi! He gave you the time you wanted. If you needed more time, take more time and follow it up! You were offered all the resources you have requested. Did you ask for more? If not, please tell me why you have not done such essential things, let us take it for the European Commission, with regard to the harmonisation of the European Commission. You write here to claim that you have not obtained any evidence that the Commission has been misled. Tell me, did you ask the Commission yourself to do this? Or did you ask only those who had correspondence with the Commission, who told them how they had done everything correctly? Where is this correspondence with the European Commission? I've had such correspondence. And what the European Commission has answered shows exactly the opposite: that it has been deceived... and that, in fact, we may still, at all, be taking place here and paying the entos millions for an illegal scheme that, by its very nature, does not correspond to that harmonisation, to the decision that the European Commission has taken. And that was one very principled thing. And I take this as just one example. And so we could go through everything. You were given the materials, you were given the opportunity to prove things here with concrete facts... at least on the same start-up control process, on how the authorisations have been issued. All of this has already been investigated. You don't know why you've ignored all these things at all, you... at all, it seems that you have not read this information. Instead, you are simply telling here the fairy tales that have been told to you by those who have been involved in this aphere. As a result, colleagues, I see from this... from this event, I see that the most important thing here would be to decide that there is a need for serious amendments to the parliamentary roll of order - to make provision in the future that, if such parliamentary commissions are to be set up, the head of the commission should take responsibility for the result. Otherwise, what we see here is that there are some who create a commission, and then there are others who run it, but unfortunately they run it not to investigate it, but rather to cover it up. Because, in essence, what we see as a result... This conclusion, which is now being described here as a heroic story: “We will now propose to abolish the OIC system!” So what the commission is proposing is that they propose the abolition of the OIC system, given, of course, that the repeal of the law will not affect the contracts already concluded and the investments made. In essence, it is proposed that: "A new OIC cover should be established as a matter of urgency. This is open, we cannot continue, we need another, but we retain all the opportunities that have been created for these businesses!' That is what the Minister for Economics is saying here at the moment, who has just gone away. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaistov: “There is nowhere!” ) Because otherwise, either he... It turns out he doesn't... either he deliberately creates a new ephemeral cover, or he simply has not understood what someone has written to him and put in front of what he must now pass through the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Zakaistov: “Tell us! Light us!” ) Because it is the most complete absurd thing that is currently happening! This is not the OIC Aperture Investigation Commission, but the OIC Aperture Coupling Commission, which has just come here to create a new cover for this Aperture. Colleagues! Therefore, my proposal should continue to make provision for the parliamentary order to lead one of those who have signed an application to set up such a commission, and who is in charge of the outcome. And in this case, it would be normal to say that the money that taxpayers have paid, the resources that have been spent, would be returned. That would be normal, and it would be reasonable to do so in that case. So, my fellow Members, I would urge you not to rely on these populist statements that are being said here, but to look at real things. And if we really want to fight this area, then first we should think about control mechanisms...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U23	Thank you. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U24	... for which there are no proposals. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U25	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U26	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! When I read this report, I had such associations with the compulsory literature of school time that I had to read something you don't want. You don't want to, but you have to read it. And one concrete example came to my mind. The most difficult thing for me was one piece – “Green Land”. ( Interface: ‘ Well, of course! ’) ) Because no matter how many times I try to read it, in the morning or in the evening, I fell asleep around page 42. ), when the trailer was on the seventh bridge and could not go further. Something like that. Not because sleep comes, definitely not, but there are two considerations. First. I didn't cross one section in the table... Former Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis says that he did not understand in 2009 that it was state aid. That seems cool to me. But, of course, the commission did not ask you a question. Well, maybe there's... Four billion, what are they asking, right? What do I ask about four billion?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Remember what time it was! 2009 was the time when the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Commission lived in Latvia. The epicenter of the crisis, right? In fact, we were afraid of even decorations for Christmas spruces without asking. We asked if we could breathe. But four billion... What are you asking about four billion, right? But there's a problem with this, too, then a little... The problem is that there is already a report by the European Commission of 24 April 2014, which clearly states: state aid. There is a final ruling by the European Court of Justice where... it is clear that state aid. Something needs to be done. What do you mean you can do that? Then there was the genius that the opinion of the European Commission and the European Court of Justice had evolutionaryised. We stayed where... they evolutionaryized; no legislative act changed, but we remained idiots, and they evolutionaryized. It was found, however, that it constituted State aid. That too is a fantastic opinion! And this evolution is described in some ways... justified in such a way that... It's all... the liberalisation of the energy market has led to its evolution and its understanding, has it not? Nothing that the market was liberalised in 2007 - two years before the OIC was introduced, but the evolution took place later, did it? Well, yeah. Four billion did not have to be reconciled. Error, we didn't. The other thing. Of course, however, overcoming this chapter... Oh, by the way, also... Yeah, we didn't understand... we have compensated Estonians and Lithuanians for market distortions in construction of interconnections. We didn't understand. We considered that the market was not distorted, we felt that it had no connection with the common market at all. Really. And that's the argument why, you know what it is? Because it was not counted from the budget. Direct payments shall take place. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What's the state aid? In fact, it's like we ourselves -- I, business, each one of you... with Latvenergo this is our private transaction, isn't it? We've agreed to pay the third part for the OIC... What is the relationship with the country? What kind of state aid?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The budget is not affected! It's okay! Okay. I passed page 42, and I read it again. And now it's not a accusation to the commission. There, too, quite a lot of clever things are recorded, right. I'd call it... Well, treasons, a clumsy sum of 144 pages. For the last 20 years. A summary of the impotence. There is very clear evidence that national interests are not understood by even no one at all; there has been no branch of state power that would have responded. None of the branches of the country worked to prevent this climate. And then it's a feeling - not sleep comes, but nausea, to be honest, reading it all through. It's coming, to be honest. I really don't sometimes understand how the country and the land of Latvia carry us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U27	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U28	Good morning, colleagues! I have decided that this will be my last speech from the parliamentary tribunal on this issue. ( The drug is noise. Sub-words: “No!” ; “This year!” ) And I would like to begin this speech on the OIC Committee of Parliamentary Investigation by reading these commissions, as they say, the minutes of the warm-up sitting, where Members tell us why they have come to work on that committee. And I came to Sanda Riekstin. Sandis Riekstins has come to the OIC commission and says: “I’m here because one of the factions had to be. I'm honest.” Sandy Riekstin, if you do not have enough education or will, I am sorry, even if you are sending out, put that Member's mandate down! Now don't learn the OIC commission if you want to cover all those cheats too! But you honestly say in the protocol that you have come because you were sent by a political group, without understanding anything about the subject. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “At least one honest person!” ) I continue. Martin Stein. He adds Sandi Riekstin: “I’m the same.” Mr. Stein, what did you do in that commission if you were just like Riekstins... Why do you even want to be like Riekstin, who has no education? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Stein) If you wanted to fight the OIC, then you should have done so and today, as a member of the Commission, come to the table with an offer that the OIC will be abolished from tomorrow. You didn't come with such a proposal, Mr. Stein! Because you were in that commission just like Riekstins and probably didn't do anything. What I want to say - I would like to say thank you to Ieva Krapāne from KPV LV. A. Neighbours: “Stop in, and peace!” ), which was the only one actually tried to do something. Because the commission also had Asheraden, who's out of the room. What am I reading? Asheraden's life... not as a spouse, but as a sister, Ulrika Schultz-Asheraden... It has somehow happened that such a man, Uldis Gints Schultz-Asheraden, who is probably the husband of Ulriks, is the owner of SIA Bio GreenLand and may be related in some way to OIK. Looking at Facebook - Oscar Asheraden seems to be the son of Mr. Asheraden, after a declaration. What does he write, where does he work? Wind Energy, he's written. Then when I publicly said it, Asheraden struck a stab in the table: lest his adult son be offended. But in Facebook, that son himself has recorded it. Maybe Asheraden put him there? I don't know! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbour: “You’re such a asshole, listen! Name of honor!’ ) Before the elections, Neighbours said in an interview in Shleser's newspaper... “Daily Business” he said: “OIC we could cancel elementaryly – let’s change the name!” That's what he said in the interview. That's what he said in that interview! A year has passed - neither the name changed, nor the OIK cancelled, the electricity bills rose. Yeah... Why? Because Asheraden is the best neighbor in the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Yes, we live together!” (Laughter) I think OIC is an afēra and OIC is the largest afēra in the history of Latvia, and I think the participants of this afēra are also here - in the Chamber. I think that those who benefit from this chain are managing our country and stealing our people. And I think that this is possible only because our people are used to suffering and listening to the licked, right talk about how the OIC will be abolished for years. I think that Krišjānis Kariņš should be held accountable, even criminal, when introducing OIC and failing to abolish it. And I think that all those United Nations politicians, both existing and former, who have fed OICs should be held accountable exactly the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U29	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U30	There is one important thing that the report cannot read, of course, because... logical... the time at which the OIC is actually implemented. It’s not some time when credits are thrown out to the population or we live here, as says, “gas on the floor!” ... And when it seems: well, what's there - still pay for green energy three times more expensive, what's the problem?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It is 2009; it is the biggest point of the crisis. We're turning around a live body, we're cutting a lot of wages for all people who get money from the budget. And that... the crisis contributes to a new emigration... a new wave of economic refugees away from Latvia. And then we decide to distribute four billions to people in Latvia. These are the circumstances in which the decision is taken. This must be remembered when reading this report. And now, have we come to the conclusion? Because the report helps to draw conclusions. Perhaps, I hope we also understand now, my fellow members, KPV LV, who we have appointed as the Prime Minister, whose party we have placed in power today - the one who invented, introduced and covered the OIC. And then we hope that someone will allow us to write an objective report! Of course not. And that should start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U31	I closed the debate. Mrs Krapane, on behalf of the Commission, do you want to add something, explain, answer? No, no. So, colleagues, we have examined the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U32	Hello, colleagues! Amendments to the Act of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Four proposals were received. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. An editorial clarification about the fact that the Council for the Judiciary about compliance of candidates with the requirements of the admission of state secrets immediately requests an opinion from state security institutions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U34	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Clarifying that a chief prosecutor may not hold that post for more than two consecutive terms in the same unit. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U36	3. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns that the Council for the Judiciary draw up the regulations of the competition before 1 April of this year. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U38	4. - the proposal of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption that the limitation of two terms for the post of chief prosecutor shall take effect from 21 December 2021. ... from 1 January, but a person who continues to hold that post at that time may be re-appointed for one term of office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U40	I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U42	During the meeting of 18 February this year, colleagues, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined draft law related to the previous draft law “Amendments to the law “On Judicial Power”. Only one proposal was received, which is the proposal of the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission itself that this law enters into force on the day following its publication. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U44	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U45	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on the privatisation of land in rural areas”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U46	Hello, colleagues! We work with document number 525/Lp13 - Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas. The Commission has received and examined four proposals. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U48	I want to explain to you about 1. Proposal A, which was drawn up by the Commission itself. Maybe you should listen a little bit carefully. On behalf of Members of the Commission, I would like to say that this is an important proposal. The legal service of the Ministry of Agriculture in the draft law has revealed an error that needs to be corrected. If we were to maintain the previous paragraph 1 of Section 28.1 first, it would substantially extend the range of entities listed in Article 28 of the law, as a result of which the legal framework would give rights to the natural persons of international contracting States, citizens... they would be recognised and could buy land in Latvia. So far, it was only allowed to legal entities. And so the commissions... The committee responsible has drawn up a point... 1. Proposal A (which has been supported by the Commission) to prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U50	2. There is also a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U52	3. The proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Gerhard, is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U54	I call for support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U55	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U57	Draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U58	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Good morning! This draft law, which we are looking at today at second reading and which has been examined by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, was originally submitted for first reading from the Development/About Group. . The original purpose of this draft law was (I would remind you) to respond to the situation that had arisen in Riga with the so-called "pure" monopoly case, which was possible because the Waste Management Law adopted in the previous parliamentary term did not rule out such action. So the Riga City Council could do that. Accordingly, the draft law intended to eliminate these shortcomings, such as to reduce the PPP period from 20 years to 10 years, as well as to abandon the historical arrangements that municipal companies have the right to enter into agreements on the disposal of waste in their territory with their own companies without competition, to offer a solution to the competition as the main means not only in Riga, but also in major municipalities, and to address other issues related to competition and the transparency of the waste market. So the first reading was supported. Before the second reading, it seemed that at more than three sittings, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy looked at the draft law, decided to support it in its entirety, but there were also a number of proposals on which quite serious discussions were held. Let's get on with the proposals! 1. is a motion from a Member of the European Parliament, which provided for a number of cases concerning the introduction of a zone model. This clarified the wording of the first reading with regard to a more precise terminology on the definition of the size of municipalities, i.e. not about the big cities, but the municipalities over 50 000 inhabitants. With regard to Riga, it is not about Riga, to name it on their behalf (which, from the point of view of the Office of Legal Affairs of the Saeima, is considered to be a legally incorrect approach), but to designate it as an area with more than 100 000 inhabitants, and also to provide that, if zones are to be established, they must be created in proportion to the number of inhabitants and the amount of waste generated. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U59	Members want to have a debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U60	Colleagues, I would now like to explain, in the format of the debate, why we have tabled this proposal and what the benefits are from the zones. You see, at present, in most of Latvia, most municipalities, there is only one waste management area, in other words, only one waste management service provider. There is no competition. This situation is two thirds of the territory of Latvia and the amount of waste to be managed. Consequently, it is clear in those municipalities that there can be no question of competition. Clearly, we cannot guarantee citizens the best and cheapest service, and it is clear that the barriers to entry for new market players are absolute. There are simply no other market players. We understand it - it is not there and it will not be! At the same time, there are municipalities which, although the law did not so far require, have introduced zones such as Liepaja. There are two zones. In the future, colleagues, we... I hope at the next Saeima sitting... Let us talk about administrative territorial reform. We will probably support this reform at second reading with a proper discussion, and this will lead to an increase in the size of municipalities. In particular, municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants are likely to have several. The purchase of waste management has now been completed in Riga, where the results are known. I'll let you appreciate it. I will just find that procurement is based on this model of zones. In my view, the results that have now been achieved are normal, prices are acceptable and there is clarity about the export of waste to Riga in the future - on this model of the zones. There are several operators, so there is competition. In Latvia, this model of zones, which I offer, has been tested. It works and I therefore call on you to stick to it. I regret that this proposal was not supported by the Commission, but I call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U61	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U62	Good morning! The story of so-called monopoly zones, in my view, over the last few months, has been very widely discussed. This specific proposal is more relevant and prone to the so-called... I would call it "the Vidzeme market", the Vidzeme waste management market, where all 20 well-known municipalities work there or how many... the municipal joint venture ZAAO. And the thing is, "ZAAO" as far as I know, and I'm not... I don't even know anyone there, to be honest... I guess the manager had come to the commission meeting, and also... Whereas, to defend it. I understand it's not because from the beginning... I understand that at first there was an attempt at the implementation of the functions set out in the law by the municipalities - each of those municipalities. But for some reason it failed... mostly because in some specific areas population density was so low that real traders simply did not apply and did not want to get out of the waste there. And that was the origin of this municipal joint venture. This joint venture is, in my opinion... Well, I see... live in Latvia without illusions. But there is a good thing - if the joint venture belongs to municipalities with different political powers (for example, I do not know in one thing, I do not know in the National Union, elsewhere - Unity, yet the ZZS, something else), but its tendency to control each other so as not to suffer directly from the residents of the particular district and the tariffs would not be expensive, and to look at the other on the nails is, in my opinion, simply logical. And if there are 20 municipalities, then steal... stealing in this company, cheating customers is, let's say, a little chance. But why... Why is it important to prevent the creation of any zones? Well, in this case, what could happen is that, for example, there is Valmiera, which is developing faster than Ventspils, and there is a sufficiently dense settlement there. If, for example, this city or the settlement, or its territory, were to be divided as a separate area, it is clear that any private company could offer it directly, perhaps even a better tariff than it is at present. And that would be because... And in the same existing system... in an existing system happens to be known... to a certain extent cross-subsidisation. In this case, those people living in densely populated areas, such as Valmiera, are, to a certain extent, cross-subsidising people living in less dense areas, perhaps in the region, and where the wastebins are not at the same distance of 10 metres. I think it's... it is fair, especially in a situation where there have been areas where no one wanted to provide their services. I will not go into detail why there is such a proposal... could be, and could be, the company that wanted to get the waste there in Valmiera. I am against monopoly zones because this also means that there will be no choice for the client in this particular area in any case. There'll be one service provider, one car to drive. And if they... Once that driver will get sick in one car or something else will happen, then the waste will stand there and smell, and there will be no possibility for the manager or client to enter into a contract with someone else. It's so simple. That is why, in the Commission for the particular proposal, all Members, if I remember correctly, also rejected, apart from the one who myself, in my opinion, the applicant. So I think it's logical... There will, of course, be a long debate on other proposals. I call for a simple follow-up to what has been decided by the Commission, where there has indeed been discussions over many meetings of the Commission on this matter. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U63	The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U64	Hello, colleagues! Daniel, as rapporteur, referred to his proposal 1, then I can perhaps look back at what we discussed in the Commission and why this 1 was rejected. - Daniel Pavilut's proposal. And the proposal is divided into two parts, since Parts A and B. Part A, which amounts to 50,000... municipalities of more than 50 thousand divided into zones. And, as Daniel says, create this competition. However, the Members were concerned that, for example, at the moment in the city... Well, an example in Latvia - Wittenberg... running company, municipal company... Wittenberg Eko. For this, automatically, even if it were the cheapest offer, it would automatically... it would not be able to participate and continue to host throughout the city. And so there is a concern that procurement could also be more expensive and costly for citizens to pay for the removal and servicing of waste, because it would have had the cheapest offer in both of these areas (because two areas would have to be prepared), it would not be able to continue working in both areas... Well, because it's a risk of costing the population. And the other for 100 thousand and this division into zones. In essence, this competition has now ended in Riga, then the Members, listening to the organisations representing the population, and the Competition Council, after the first reading, created their own proposal, which also provides for free competition in the area of waste, as is currently the case for electricity and gas. When these markets were introduced, they opened... there was also quite an aggressive and broad discussion, but the result is that gas is cheaper than ever before. And at this point in time, it may be created that there is no free competition in the area of waste, but I think there is no obvious reason why it cannot be introduced. I think we all understand that the more market players enter the market, because it can bring the price closer to the lowest price. Because... Then there will be this 9. - the Members' proposal, which talks about this solution in Riga, as it is today. As colleagues have already said, they did not support this proposal by Mr Pavlut during the sitting. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U65	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U66	Curtis Vonnegutas had a description of the situation, when the main character described how he felt in his work – that is, the thoughts hung in the knot and the head hung out. I heard this debate today... Well, first one. Well, Daniel says... It's all genius in reality. Riga City Council... The Riga City Council acted legitimately. But we just released it for its illegal activities in waste management. No, no? The basic definition for you was that. So what do we really have here? And the other thing is, when Krišjānis Feldman climbed into the tributary, I think he will, let's say, change his mind, or at least explain from when and why he... And here I agree with Daniel: support the existing arrangements and the continuation of the existing monopoly of the operator. No, I didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U67	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U68	No, nothing else can be explained. Therefore, proposal 1 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Pavluta's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 11, it's against - 71, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U70	2. there was an economic minister Ralfa Nemiro's proposal, which provided for the right if the municipality chooses to enter into an agreement on the collection of municipal waste under the other part of the article, then that... the other producers of the waste also enter into a contract with the operator. But this proposal (even though it was not supported by the Commission) was then withdrawn from Mr Nemiro's side.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U71	Members shall not object and the proposal shall be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U72	Okay. Proposal No 3 is the proposal from the Member, Roman Money. It is in fact equal in substance to the proposal made by Mr Valaiņa, Member, 4, so that these proposals were taken together by the Commission. The proposal provides for the exclusion of the first-reading version which provided for cases where... subject to the right of derogation under the procurement law and not to carry out a procurement procedure if the municipality owns an undertaking performing these functions... provide, as appropriate, for an obligation under the Waste Management Act to organise a tendering procedure prior to the exercise of such rights. This issue was extensively discussed by the Commission. This is an issue that has been driven and widely discussed by the Competition Council in several configurations of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, as well as in previous Saeima, and has so far been left to the wording. That's the so-called... Maybe they'll remind you of something like that on your ear... In-house procurement issue. Consequently, whether or not the municipality has the right to enter into a contract with its own companies without a competitive tender without a market test. In the debate on 'for' and 'no', the Commission supported both Roman Money's proposal No. 3, as well as the next proposal, by Mr Valaiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U73	So the proposal 3 (Interface: "We are voting!") )... The Members would like to have a debate on proposal 3. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U74	Yes, colleagues! I would also like to make my personal observations and the Development/About Group. considerations on this issue. For, I must say, from the point of view of ensuring competition in the area of waste, this point is critical. This is a question of municipal monopolies, not so much the previous question of proposal 1. Colleagues! What does in-house offer mean... In-house procurement? This means that, where the municipality owns an undertaking in the relevant field of waste disposal, a municipal-owned undertaking performing these functions, where the municipality owns more than half of that undertaking, has so far been entitled to entrust the municipality without a tender, without a price check, without any market opportunity and clarification of interests with the disposal of the waste and thus without tendering. Do you think there are many or few such municipalities in Latvia who do so? There are so many such municipalities! As I mentioned in the previous debate, two thirds of Latvia's territory has such a legal monopoly on municipal waste companies. Colleagues, we have heard today, we have heard before, and today we will still hear in the debate the so-called fight for free competition in Riga, of course. In the territory of the rest of the municipalities all over Latvia, including litigations in the municipalities, the monopoly of the municipalities will have to be! And, you know, that's the view of the previous Saeima! And the Competition Council has not coped with this. It just doesn't go through. The Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission includes “ZAAO” coalition, Jelgava Municipal Farm Coalition, all in a row, clear. It is clear how Mr. Dūklav will vote; it is clear how Mr. Urbanovich, Mr. Money... All this has been so far. What's interesting? That now the new politicians are also joining this coalition and voting in favour of maintaining the waste monopolies. Oh, shit about the facts. The magazine “Ir” has collected data on export prices of waste in the territory of Latvia and municipalities and published the following data in December 2018: in municipalities where waste is managed by companies that are wholly owned by local governments, waste management is on average 16 percent more expensive than in municipalities where private entrepreneurs do so. In ten municipalities with the highest export prices, there is no private company, all of which are municipal monopolies. In 10 municipalities with the cheapest waste export tariffs in Latvia, only one is public, one is a municipal company. The rest are private. Colleagues, the monopoly of municipalities means that tenders are never held, prices are higher and citizens do not know at all whether there are any alternatives or not, because there is no possibility to find out. The fact that there are similarities with the electricity market or the gas market... I have something to say, Mr Wittenberg, because I was driving these liberalisations here in the past. I am very much aware of these issues. Let us show the difference. Electricity and gas markets are subject to slightly different conditions. There is a need to ensure guaranteed delivery, and so on, which we will be able to discuss yet on your licence proposal, but it is not quite correct to draw these parallels here. In any case, I must say that I am deeply confused about how we (some of our colleagues) can fight with one hand for so-called free competition in one municipality and continue legalising local monopolies in the same policy style in the rest of Latvia. What, then, do we offer? Not to withdraw ZAAO, Jelgava, Rēzekne, Daugavpils or any other company from the waste shipment, but to first make a competition for the path ZAAO, which is such a good company (I do not doubt!) , so “ ZAPO” wins the competition and shows that you can win on the market! I'm honest. Smart. Open up. ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) Let's go! Why avoid tendering? Why not make purchases? Why make legal monopolies? ( Internouncing call.) So that I call for the best to show that they are the best, to organise a competition, and if there is a situation where a municipality, as has been said here, will also be so small and uninteresting after the administrative territorial reform that private operators will not want to enter into and compete, the municipality will have the right to enter into a contract with its own company if the competition is not successful. So it's all thought about here. However, I call on you to reject these proposals from Member Money and Member Valaiņš and to introduce competition elsewhere in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U75	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U76	At the time when a new sponsor appears at Riga Basketball Club, for Development/About! begins to speak (Interface: “On the proposal!” ) on very specific cases and concrete proposals. And on this proposal you are very much in between. , very beautifully marked it in a picture that may be different as well. But you avoid such an obvious thing as analysing existing practices and historical events that we have had in the very recent past. And if someone wants to tell me that these municipal companies do not analyse these situations, they are completely foolish. All is analysed and there have been numerous attempts to offer this service to this private market. We see this ending in Tukums, Daugavpils. There are a number of examples of why such a rule is introduced, as well as these open competitions, where they start to tender... the same ZAAO and the private waste manager... And when you compare the prices offered, you see that this private operator has unfortunately forgotten to include all tax forms in the tender application. Unfortunately, that is the reality, that is the situation. The same ZAAO is one of the largest taxpayers for certain types of waste exports. And there's the impression that they're the only ones in Latvia who do the waste. So, I think, colleagues, this proposal... I'm not saying, Mr. Pavilut, that you're completely out of place and wrong... the idea is good for you, but unfortunately this business environment in this very dramatic market that is happening... has not yet been fully prepared. And I know very clearly that any municipality, any municipality company... it is not a priority for the municipality. The priority for municipalities is to achieve the objectives set for us by the country that the European Union has set us. And to achieve their objectives, this is not now - now! - the best solution. Each municipality needs to consider the path that they are going on. And also with regard to these in-houses - this is a possibility for the municipality. We should not create such a legal mechanism by law. Finally, we can get into a very deep ditch with these problems. On the contrary, I call on the municipalities to do so, to evaluate (you have a VARAM, you can do it through VARAM, and all these regulations are aligned with VARAM) and thus to deal with this issue. And at a time when we have a clear belief that all Latvian entrepreneurs operating in the waste business are honest entrepreneurs, that it will not be that after the conclusion of the contract the next day will raise tariffs and refuse to meet several important conditions, that we will not have more such examples, then we can talk about it. If it is currently open tender, the elements with dumping... It is not the first case, it has already been. It's only the next day that people are offered contracts that... it would be simply criminal if signed, but they were forced to sign. And in the end, it will increase even double the fixed rate. Such issues, such problems have occurred, so I am calling for support to be given to Mr Mandiņš's proposal and my proposal. And let us continue to work on this, colleagues, and we will call for an evaluation. I am convinced that these issues are already being assessed. It is not the case that the local authorities want to end, and it is their first priority, to do their own disposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U77	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U78	Hello, colleagues! Viktor Valainis said that perhaps “Develop for Development/About!” are good intentions, maybe it is. But I'll remind you that good intentions can pave the way to hell. And in this case there should be a direct link between waste and waste management and between citizens and the interests of citizens. I am very sorry that it is related to the interests of sponsors of the basketball club. But I do not agree with Mr Pavluta on gas and electricity. What happened after the liberalisation of the gas market? Look at what people see in their bills: the price has not fallen. What happened to the liberalisation of the electricity market? Is the price cheaper? We are opening up something, we are liberalising something, and the price for citizens is not falling. ( Interface: “The purpose... “ The goal should already be... decrease in that price. And we're just grabbing something, saying, a free market. As a result of the free market, there are a number of intermediaries, and God knows what makes and people pay more. If we are talking about municipal waste management companies like ZAAO, I can tell you as a client that I am very satisfied with this company. And I could not imagine what would happen if now in Vidzeme in the area where ZAAO is operating, I don't know how many companies, for example, two or three. We would find ourselves in a situation where there is the same thing as in some areas where there is, for example, a free market. You have followed along what is happening in Latvia, for example, in the food sector, where the milk package travels from Kurzeme to Latgale and the milk package produced in Latgale travels back to Kurzeme? So it's a waste of resources, it's... CO2 emissions. Then we may think, however, that the conditions for climate change in waste management should also be respected and that consideration should be given to reducing CO2 emissions. No, we're going to set up one territory now, so different operators drive the hoop round with machines... I think we do not need to create any chaos, and I remind you that we are working for the people. And you don't have to think about sponsors and things that can make the situation difficult and make it just worse for our citizens.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U79	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, what is to be added about 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U80	Nothing can be further explained on behalf of the Commission. Proposal No. of Member's Money The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U81	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The motion tabled by Member Money! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 67, no, 10, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U82	4. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission was supported. It is, in fact, identical to the proposal of the Member's Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U83	So 3 and 4 are the same.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U84	Yeah. You don't have to vote, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U85	No, you don't have to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U86	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, in fact envisaged a similar model of licensing in the municipality of over 100 000 inhabitants, as proposed in proposal 9. I propose that we discuss this further there, because this proposal was not supported by the Commission. And Ralph Nemiro has also referred to this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U87	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U88	6. There is a motion from the House. This was not supported by the Commission. The essence of the proposal was to set out the criteria that the municipalities would need to set up rules on the organisation of procurement in the event of the introduction of a zone model. This is linked to the proposal already discussed in the past. 1 on the introduction of zones in both Riga and major municipalities (over 50,000 inhabitants). The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U89	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The bottom line of the proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 73, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U90	7. - the Member's Pavluta's proposal provided for the same possibility, with regard to the introduction of a zone model, that if the municipalities wish to establish a common waste management area, this can be done until the total population of 50,000 is exceeded. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U91	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Pavluta's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U92	8 / 8 - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. The Commission was supported. The substance of the proposal was once again linked to the model of the zones and proposed to delete the article relating to the introduction of the zones. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U93	Members (Interface: 'We are voting!') )... wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, 10, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported. Dear colleagues, The Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from a Member of the Parliament, Roman Money, to withdraw his signature on proposals 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U94	Yeah. Proposal No 9 is tabled by the groups of Members - Feldman, Riekstin, Wittenberg, Kursīte, Leiniņa and Money - who have... So Mr Moneys withdraws his signature, but the proposal is under consideration anyway. Therefore, Proposal 9 led to the greatest debate within the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. It was a long time. The essence of this proposal is to provide for municipalities with a population density of more than two thousand people per square kilometre... So, in fact, this is another way to say “Riga”. put into practice a new waste management model in this municipality by entrusting the disposal of municipal waste to managers who meet the criteria set by the Cabinet of Ministers and who conclude agreements on the management of municipal waste in this territory. So all sorts of aspects were addressed, it was... This proposal was presented and interpreted as introducing the so-called free competition or more free competition model against the zone model or anyone else that has been used in Latvia. The arguments put forward are that this licensing model creates a lot of uncertainty. This is a conceptually new model in Latvian circumstances, therefore it is difficult to predict the real effect on the disposal of waste in Riga at the moment. Among other things, the greatest uncertainty is related to the fact that the criteria to be defined by the Cabinet of Ministers, which would be essential in determining which managers can or cannot export waste, are not currently known. There was a discussion about the need to ask the VARAM for further analysis and evaluation and to anticipate possible consequences and the need to listen to such a report in more detail before making a conceptual decision on the implementation of such a conceptual model. As a result, this proposal was nevertheless supported by the Commission and...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U95	Colleagues, we will debate this proposal after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notification. Dear colleagues, on 21 February our colleague Andrejs Judin celebrated a round anniversary. Today's birthday to Martin Stein! (Applause) The name of the Member, Janis Wuzan, is for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U96	Hello, colleagues from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly! A very short delegation meeting immediately in the yellow room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U97	Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U98	Good morning, honourable Members! Not registered: Jānis Adamsons... No, Vyacheslav Dombrovskis... No, Raivis Dzintars... I don't see, Maria Golubeva... No, I'm not, Inese Rectsen... I don't see, Richard Coll... No, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere... No, Linda Ozola... I don't see, Ramona Petraviča... There's no, Vita Anda Steel... No, Ivars Zarins... I can’t see. I. Zarins: “How can I not see?” Laughs.) Evita Hallie-Gross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U99	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U100	Dear colleagues, We're going on after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, second reading. And the debate on proposal 9 tabled by Members Feldman, Riekstins, Vitenbergs, Kursite, Lejiņš. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U101	This will now be the proposal where everyone will be able to show who he is and what he represents. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “Yes, yes!” ) In this case, 10 years before last September in Riga was... actually could... what could have been described as free competition. There were four waste management companies, well, I'd rather call them a waste machine, well, the exporters... exporters of waste. And every man... Households, for example, where they live in private homes or where there are private house managers who are not subject to the corrupt Riga regime, were able to choose with whom company to enter into a waste disposal agreement. In particular, I had a connection with Pardaugava. And when it seemed like the tariff was too big, then he could call another company right away, or someone else, and it really turned out that the tariff was... the other company offers a lower tariff - a little, but lower. And then there also made some decisions from it. In my perception, of course, there was also... The “pure” afer was in no way... not allowed. And what happened afterwards and about which I also came to the tribunal, first of all, about the so-called emergency situation, which was a good plan to cancel these contracts - all the old ones - with waste managers, so that these companies operating in free competition would no longer have any contract with them. Well, to clean the field and prepare for the next phase. The event took place after that, taking part in the same “Clear” participants, when an apparently negotiated competition (which one of the few in the history of Latvia was not... for which no complaint was received in the Procurement Supervisory Office, which is a very rare case), the Sculptile Company - a Company related to the Sculptile - won completely for half of Riga. Then there's their competition... prior to that, competition took a third zone. And then the two small companies, which were before, divided their fourth zone. No complaints were made... completely by accident... Well, as I said, a rare case in Latvia's history. This proposal provides for a return to free competition in Riga, so that every Rigaian can have an opportunity if he sees that he does not have a wastebin... the big container has been taken to the house... that he can also replace the exporter of the waste. The proposal specifically deals with population density: two thousand inhabitants per square kilometre. At the moment, only the city of Riga corresponds to it by statistics. So, of course, we're talking here about Riga. There is an additional option if this proposal were to be supported. It would also be an opportunity if anything, as a representative of the Competition Council, as demonstrated by Latvijas Radio today morning... would also be able to enter medium-sized waste disposal companies, which could then participate accordingly, possibly offering either better service or a better price, but in any case under pressure, this competitive pressure, to the market. In this particular case, if this proposal is rejected, then it remains... in fact, the monopoly zones introduced by the Riga corrupt regime are legitimised. Every Riga resident will continue, even after 2021, to be enslaved for seven years to one of these companies. In this... mostly so... half of Riga will be returned to the chain-related company for seven years, and nothing will change. And when they go out and see a waste container near their home, which for some reason is not exported, as it is already happening, and which is complained about by private house managers in Riga... Since September this barrack has just become worse... then they'll remember Daniel Pavilut's face and think, that's why I smell the waste! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U102	The name of Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U103	Dear colleagues, It is possible that the Saeima’s work does not lack a lot of questions that can be discussed in slogans and where the presentation of attitudes and reading of titles is sufficient. And it seems that the obligation of the legislator has been fulfilled. But, for example, in the work of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy there is no shortage of questions, which have real consequences, where depending on what conceptual decision we make, how we have tried to understand, even though we have tried to understand what the real consequences of these steps would be for hundreds of thousands of Latvians... hundreds of thousands of tons of waste... It is possible that these slogans would not cause the lips so easily. First. With regard to the proposal put forward by the Group of Members to introduce the so-called licensing model, which I would like to call 'free competition' (footsteps), I will explain immediately. This model of licensing essentially offers to delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers currently unknown... the task of defining unknown criteria according to which, for this set of criteria, waste service providers would commit themselves to the whole vast territory of Riga, which is a huge market - huge! - to withdraw waste from any place in that territory if any producer of waste, large or small, apartment house, private house or businessman would like to conclude this contract with them. How would it look in nature? These businessmen should be ready at any time during this period to buy their services or withdraw from it within a certain time limit that it may happen that waste should be removed from a large part of Riga... and large... maybe also small parts. In such a situation, colleagues, I think that the way economic operators will offer prices for this service is completely unpredictable. I fear that prices will be significantly higher. Second. What criteria should be established by the Cabinet of Ministers in order to be half certain that waste service providers will really be able to export rather than refuse to go bankrupt? They should set in the Cabinet that there must be enough car fleet, many cars... to be proven. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Interdependence of the Muižniece.) Third. Many containers, many different types, would be needed, because, colleagues, we will have to sort more waste in the future. We have made these commitments. We want to do that. Five six types of different containers. So it must be able to finance it. Thus, financial capacity, financial capacity, bank guarantees and so on will have to be demonstrated. How many companies will there be, who will be able to do all of this in Riga? One or two? Then as interests we are truly lobbying (Dep. I. Zarins: “Exactly!” ) - interests of Riga residents or the interests of a few of the largest waste exporters? It will not be any free competition! It will be a completely limited game of the biggest players. Our request was - before taking a conceptual decision at second reading, where the third will no longer be able to cut the axe - to discuss, understand the consistency, understand what will still need to be amended in the law. For example, Mr Wittenberg has already mentioned a similarity with the electricity, gas market, indeed, there is a similarity here. What happens at the moment if any of these merchants refuse to export? Waste should be removed. A guaranteed export is required. Like in electricity - “Salaltes tīkls” provides guaranteed supply. That is an issue that has been resolved. So someone has to do it. SPRK Services... The Public Service Regulatory Commission should come in, play a role... expenditure will increase and so on. Colleagues, I am not saying that this cannot be done, but simply in Latvia it has not been done so far. When such things are voted on in the cave without serious discussion, I do not think it is wise. Consequently, I call for the model of certain zones not to be changed at the moment, which ensures reasonable competition - four players - in Riga, against a model in which we do not know what the actual consequences will be. These would be the main arguments at the moment. There are, of course, also human considerations: as it will be, when cars from several companies go on the narrow streets, more fuel will be spent, the CO2 footprint will rise and so on. There are many different considerations to consider. Since our request in fact was one in the Commission - not to rush the second reading, to debate this conceptual proposal, to identify everyone for and against and to make a sensible decision. Today, I think we are not ready to break down the current situation, after a just closed procurement to tell the Rigans that there will be something else in Riga again and create a new bardac. I call for a responsible decision to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U104	The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U105	A little bit of this proposal would be taken on board in the debate on proposal 1. Then watching... view and discuss waste... these purchases, mainly in Riga, create a feeling of what has been heard... I would like to compare the Ogres’s staff ball with that of the Ogres factory in the 1980 ’ s, when there were many hundred, perhaps even 1,000, girls. ... Well, some 1,000 girls and a couple... A couple of guys, the more they didn't work there. They were pretty sure they were on that ball... they will be able to get a dance, even though a pretty bad dance or a shirt is not worked out. They were in such an unspeakable good situation. And that is also the case in Riga. We can do any competition, but we have the feeling that there are only a couple of waste managers in the world, and we can change what we want, they always win. I'd like to... In the memory, a phrase came from the famous English ex - footballist Gary Liner on a question that is football. He said: It's a game that plays 11 against 11, and always wins Germans. It's similar here. We can change what we want, but always wins... whether it is “clean” or “zones”... So, I think, with this proposal, we can at last change this, and those Scandinavians or others who will see that we have finally cleaned this market in a long time's time will be able to enter and compete freely, enter into contracts... that competition... Well, that's... I think not only in the sectors where it has been seen so far... we can go further and definitely introduce waste. So, colleagues, I am sure that we support this proposal, and I hope that the concerns about the waste coalition that has been heard in this proposal will not be justified in life. So thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U106	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U107	In understanding how to fulfil this exclusive function for municipalities, there are quite different creative approaches. I understand, but let us be objective. No matter how much I would share my thoughts with the "Development/About!" group. on a number of issues, on this issue (Interface: ‘Accompanied!’) ) I agree to a certain extent. (Laughter) And I'll explain my vision. Above all, waste management is, has and will be, and this is the case across Europe. It is an exclusive competence of municipalities. What is not the exclusive competence of municipalities is that they are the objectives to be achieved and the way we reach those objectives. You think so lightly that the free market will solve everything and forget why you voted for the previous proposals yourself. That is not the case. And these targets are set for us, not at local, national, national level, these targets for us are set for us by the European Union. Someone will have to do them. At the moment there is a situation where all the rest of Latvia - all Latvia! - including Latvia's state... the whole country will suffer if there is no normal, clear solution to sort out this area. And Riga has done virtually nothing in the area of waste management in all these years. I must agree with those who criticise the results of this competition. Because the results of this competition do not personally convince me that those waste recycling, sorting targets will be achieved... whether it will actually be achieved. But it's still some sort of direction in it... in that direction. What is happening at the moment - you are talking about some kind of protection of interests. In this case... There is only one ex-politist whose interests are essentially defended in this case, and it is Andris Šķele. And the only beneficiary of this proposal will be this person and the companies he represents. Whether it's for him or not - you can still argue about it. But these specific companies will be the biggest beneficiaries. And that is the interests that you are currently defending. I believe that in this case, if you supported previous proposals on in-house procurement, the only way to put the waste issue right in Riga would be to eject the private sector in general if they fail and have not done so far, and the municipality itself would take over this function. If you support this proposal - and I call for it to be rejected - it will not be the right way to deal with waste management issues. Private business is already there. You need to find the best way to work with that private business. There's a way that's found right now. Think about how to stimulate it. If we dismantle all of this, there is no other possibility in Riga to take over this function for the municipality itself, to take on and all businessmen to say: “Apologies, that is the Saeima, it has made such decisions. These contracts are terminated.’ And in future, in order to have a clear monitoring, there is only one way - that the municipality itself takes over this business. There are no other ways. And it will in a way not serve as a good example of how to develop entrepreneurship, attract entrepreneurs to come into this business. There will simply be no other option, colleagues! Think about it before you vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U108	The name to Member Daniel Pavilut for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U109	Colleagues! Some clarifications and considerations that have not yet been mentioned. First of all, there was this free competition in Riga in the past. Well, colleagues, we can't afford to live in such a myth world. You weren't! What was the order? So the Riga City Council had chosen some waste... providers in a procedure which is not fully understood to me... through the negotiated procedure, because within the framework of the Public Procurement Act, so not really... and has concluded the contracts itself, defined, Krišjāni, the terms and conditions... not any mystical free competition according to unknown criteria defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Riga City Council had dictated these provisions of the Treaty if. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “But I offered you... !” ) It was not any free competition. There was no free competition there. Next. What was the result of this management of some firms? ( Internouncing call.) In Riga (there I have to agree with my colleagues) there is one of the worst situations in waste sorting. These few companies did not want and were unable to ensure that the waste was sorted in line with our commitments. And with this, there are unfortunately very serious problems in Riga. I would call for these considerations, including environmental considerations, to be assessed and, accordingly, would not support the licensing model at the moment. Another additional point. This set of questions, this problem will not go unanswered. It is not that if we suddenly do not support this licensing today, we will never discuss it. That's not gonna happen. VARAM is currently working for the government... work on the new waste management plan, evaluating all possible models on the territory of Latvia, including the full waste management chain. Various options will be considered. And in summer, this proposal will come to government. Please, please. Let us give VARA the opportunity to come with a conceptual vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U110	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U111	Colleagues! At this point in time, this proposal poses more problems than opportunities and benefits. I understand clearly what the proposers have wanted, but at this point there are no clear mechanisms, there are no clear criteria to regulate the rights of waste managers, the obligations towards the municipality and the services provided. Yes, of course, the proposal also states that the Cabinet of Ministers should set these criteria. But in such a way that, as the proposal shows, the absence of strict criteria in this potentially free market creates a very uncontrolled flow of waste, and do we want to do so in Riga... is it not Riga, but Latvia's largest city? At the same time, there are also a number of other problems, if we support the proposal at this point. What will we do if a trader refuses to provide a service to one of the consumers? If the consumer cannot make a choice, does he consider himself to be an appropriate service provider? Waste piles or something else? Is that what we really want to see? Very... Because both the electricity market and the gas market are the so-called universal service provider that, in any event, if there are problems and the operator in question is unable to provide the service... becomes a place for someone else and performs this service. This is not the moment here. And you have to say that it's not always and... Mr Valaiņa often meets on the opposite side and very often we do not share the same opinion, but indeed, if we are talking about the collection of shared waste, then this proposal also poses a particular problem. And with regard to the city of Riga, with regard to separate collection and sorting of waste, there is absolutely no procedure in which Riga should ensure sorting of waste. And if we now see that in 2025, 50 percent of municipal waste should be sorted and recycled... In Riga, the total amount of waste accounts for about 40 percent of the total amount of waste management in Latvia, and only 13 percent are counted against the large amount produced here in Riga and Pierīga. And do we really want to take a step backwards, not to go in the direction in which the government has also marked this path to climate neutrality, to more environmentally friendly Latvia? And I think these are very important considerations that really need to be taken into account at this point. And these uncontrolled car flows, which could also potentially happen... Only CO2 emissions could increase in Riga. And this is definitely not the direction in which we want to work and go how to develop Latvia. ( Milestones.) And it is worth noting that very intensive work is really under way at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development on the development of a new waste management plan, which will change the overall paradigm of how we deal with waste. The circular economy will be revitalised. We will change how people think about resource use. So, colleagues, I also join Mr Pavļuta in this time of summer. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins.) There will be a clear offer of how we can develop the waste management sector across Latvia in order to achieve environmental goals to ensure a more friendly, greener and cleaner environment for Latvian citizens.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U112	The name to Member Janis Wittenberg for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U113	During the whole of this draft law, there has been pressure on Members, as is always the case when looking at draft laws relating to the waste sector. Andre Shekel was mentioned here. I think colleagues, well, it could help you at some point... but Andris Šķele, I think those who put forward this proposal do not know if. I can’t deny that I’ve been compared to Andris Šķeķeley lately (Laughter) , but because of my face hair. Since the Saeima's new beard and so on. Mr Plesh, however, referred to the argument that happens if it does not happen there, does not offer this service well enough. But I have a question: what happens if, let us say, the lady has a smell on the street of narcisses and drives the driver every day and so despite her departure. Who will she complain to, and how will the waste manager be changed in that area? In fact, then, for those seven years, that man's that narcissus is going, too, if? And that's the argument that different cars will drive one street... Also now, if there is a small shop, there are three four suppliers of beer, as well as bread. We live at a time when there is competition, and there too we cannot ban... then we're going to talk about beer production... and that only one should be left, Mr. Dūklavs will probably say: “We only take the Piebalgas beer to Riga stores!” I think it's not like... It is even topical to talk about this at the moment. Colleagues, and a request for waste... Reinis Znotiņš is sitting on my eyebrows, and he says, stop taking those waste once, focus on some such important development-oriented topics! I think colleagues, yes, we vote, we support this proposal, we arrange waste in Riga and we start working on other development-oriented topics. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U114	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U115	This week, I had to be at a meeting of residents of a house where I was not recognized because I was standing aside, as they say, covered with scarlet and shade. But I heard that the residents of the house complain about the fact that large waste containers are not exported frequently enough, to which the manager replied: “Dear people, but there is a monopoly in Riga! So, please, all the questions about waste not with me!” Those who vote against this proposal clearly and clearly say that they want to legitimise the waste management agreements concluded by Burov in the Riga Monopoly zones for the next seven years. For every citizen, this container is near the house, whether it be a private house or apartment house. Every citizen, when he sees that something is wrong with those containers, will know that he can't change anything, and this is a frozen condition for the next seven years. Seven years is a very long time. The issues and problems that have been mentioned here as potential... potential obstacles to free competition can be resolved within a few weeks, unless the responsible ministry finally starts to do so and not sit on its hands. In this case, it is good that in the very near future there are elections to the Riga City Council, because those who... a large part, who will now vote against free competition, is also participating in Riga City Council elections. I'll make sure that the Rigans know that, every Rigaian knows how he voted. ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U116	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U117	This was a very interesting debate; it is obviously going on. And I would like to say that this debate has shown that the advocates of this proposal... be honest, do not understand anything about what they are talking about, at least in this context. Absolutely zero understanding! And as a result... If you say that you need to export more often and then it will be better, add that you will also have to pay more often and most likely to pay more. But I'll just repeat it again. As a result of supporting this proposal, you will be opposed to all economic operators. Against all entrepreneurs, because in principle, by supporting only one entrepreneur, who will be the biggest beneficiary... And in general wonder how you fight against those oligarchs, supporting precisely the oligarch interests in this case! But the only way to direct this area in some right direction will be for the municipality to fully take over this business here in the municipality of Riga. There's no other way. So, colleagues, think about whether you are in some way promoting the involvement of entrepreneurs in it. This decision will also state this. This will have nothing to do with free competition. There will simply be no free competition. There will be no free competition in this market. Those goals to be achieved... You probably don't know what the challenges are to Latvia, what the results to be achieved are. Therefore, I believe that, if such a proposal is supported, in Riga future management will be carried out by a community-based capital company and the free market, at least for the next 13 years, will be closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U118	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U119	I'll start with a minor part, I'll continue with a serious part. John Witenberg, you were more called the new Duklav at the Saeima than the new Squeeze. Well, it's so accurate if. It's not a serious part. But the serious part is that, in fact, it seems to me that the speakers of either position are not right. And it is not true in that it understands what one position is lobbying and it is very well understood what the other position is lobbying. But maybe all of you will now come to power in the Riga City Council if? All of you will be in power, and corruption will no longer be in Riga, which means that Riga should not invent a new bicycle, but take the best example, which works effectively, which brings taxes, which is in Latvia. And this is the best example of ZAAO, which is in Vidzeme, a company formed jointly by several municipalities, which is a municipal enterprise. And then you won't be under stress about how many companies to start or how many companies to start contests. Come to power in Riga with Stakis and do a very simple thing - take away waste management for private companies, who may be the sponsors of your party or as a minimum cooperation partner, and create in Riga just a new municipal company that will manage the waste. Firstly, there will be no risk of possible corruption, as it will be a municipal enterprise. Second... because you will already be in power if, Mr Riekstins, you too will be in power, but if you already doubt that there will be a risk, then you yourself say if you have that management company. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Thanks for the victory! Thank you, Aldi!” ) But it is essential to say... It is important to say that there will also be no risk of some potential management crises, if any. So in Vidzeme it works great, “ZAPO” works great, is a... a company set up by several municipalities. I call for the creation of a municipal company in Riga, which will also manage waste. No tenders, as all tenders present a risk of corruption, especially in the area of management. Look... If you do not believe it, look at global management practices. If you don't believe in world practice, look at the series about the Soprano family it is dealing with. Look at the history with which the management business structure is related, if any. Disassemble this structure, take over at your disposal, because immediately, after 25 April, you will be able to do it. That's my call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U120	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U121	There's a theory, and there's a reality. I assume that those who are driving this proposal do not fully understand what they are doing, because it is not because they are simply lobbying the mafia of waste managers, because, by nature, this proposal is what you are... how you will make your waste management mafia just happy. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Witenberg.) How? You take away any framework from her at all. You made him a simple fixer of the situation with these amendments. I assume that you simply do not understand what you are doing. So I'll just explain... simply basic economic principles and also maths a little. Because I feel that there are fundamental problems with it. Mr Riekstins: “In the Commission you could explain! You kept silent, you didn't come and you didn't vote! Explainer!’ ), which led to this proposal. I also explained it (Interior call.) ... If you're so sure, come here and tell me something from the pub. So what we're talking about... So there's a theory... The theory, yes, that competition is better than a monopoly, but there are economic situations where there is this so-called natural monopoly, that is, when the efficient provision of a service requires a certain scale, some provision, some infrastructure, and the conditions that can actually be met by one service more effectively... a service provider with a sufficient market size. What are you doing in the current situation? This, as once, is the situation of such a natural monopoly. If you simply say that there will now be free competition in this natural monopoly situation, you have not created free competition with this, you are simply opening up all the possibilities for an existing monopoly to seize this market, because no one else will be able to provide this service better than he is. That's what you're doing now. What should you do if you want to do so? How is this normally done? What I tell you is not just a theory. It is also a practice. It's a real practice I've had, well, to study, to study professionally... for several years and the best examples in Europe and the United States. What you have done now is simply an indisputable one. You will be able to make sure that. If you are not the ones who really want to actually correct this waste mafia with their lips today, then you will understand it yourself and in a few years' time you will be forced to correct this situation. If not, then the situation will follow... You will, with this, have simply actually destroyed effective competition and made this service even more expensive than it has been so far. These will be the real facts you can see. How should the right thing have been done? How can you do the right thing in these situations? So, understand, if there is a natural monopoly, then there is indeed an opportunity to promote this competition if you divide the market for these services from the outset into proportionate, reasonable areas and in each of these areas you achieve the entry of your own operator, so that these operators can develop under similar market conditions and grow similar muscles. And when you've got a situation where there are enough such independent operators, then you can let competition in. And then this mechanism would work. What you're doing now is you try to plant the tree before you dig the pit. You just try to put him down now. Well, there's nothing going to be there! That falcon's just gonna die. And that's what you achieve with this. So, colleagues, if you... if you really aim to combat this waste mafia and your aim is to really reach the Rigars, who are now going to take care of it, with better interests, better conditions and better conditions for anyone who will use this waste service, then it would make sense not to support this proposal now and develop the right mechanism to get to competition. Otherwise, on the contrary, you're going to break everything down now and reach the waste mafia with a simple dream fairy tale. This is what you now want to ensure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U122	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U123	Dear Members! You have noticed - this discussion about the Riga Waste Farm, one of the most important things in the Riga Farm... Where is Mayor Staķis and where is Mayor Jurash in this discussion? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Valainis!” ) Where are they? They are not in this discussion, because they are just on advertising poles! Jurash promises to plant 700 football grounds or 1900 Vērmane gardens with trees in the center of Riga. The stagnant in turn will always boast that he is a superb earthly guard if. And that's why we're going to have Riga arranged. But no mayor or other mayor can climb into Riga's waste farm. The only one who climbed up is the candidate Valainis, if. What does that mean? ( Insight: “We are voting for Valaini! ” ) That means, Mārtiņš Staķis... I advertised you so much from this bar and said I'm going to vote for you, but I'm changing my mind. (Laughter) Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of Victor Valaini! I will vote in favour of Valaini because he is the only candidate who has an opinion, the only one who has a vision and vision of the waste management in Riga. What are you doing, Marty? ( Insight: “He sings! ”) ) You, the only one who is on the billposts! It's like a nice and pleasant person, but we want to know what you're going to do for the Rigas' waste management. There are no questions at all about the million trees of Juszs. I think the first thing he has to do is go to teach a little mathematics, and, by the way, those tree planters are demanded in the SS advertisement right now, on April. That is the first thing that Juszs should do. Votesim - Valaini for the Mayor of Riga! He understands what is happening in Riga. Thank you. (Applause) (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U124	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U125	Dear colleagues, Perhaps its emotions are due to the fact that we are all producers of waste. If you speak seriously, I want to remember perhaps from history - there was once only one company in the capital Riga, which was called Hoetika, which had one, the main, function of collecting and exporting waste. What are we talking about today? We are not talking about sorting, treating or storing waste. We are talking about how to better organise the disposal of waste. Is that good or is it bad? But it's just one half of a promise ahead, because early or late for a country - not for Riga - the main problem will be to do what to do with the waste, what to do with the many landfills that are today, and how will this process, which Mr Pavilut spoke about today, be fully operational? that as if the Ministry were going to draw up a law that would regulate the entire chain here. The chain can be developed from “A” to “Z”, but the final point – which will be the next way in which the final operations with waste will take place – is still a theoretical issue, which unfortunately has not yet been debated and debated in Latvia. So today, let's say this proposal on company licensing... The idea may be interesting, but licensing really strengthens the position of strong companies on the one hand. On the other hand, it also increases the subjective approach, because what criteria will be included in licensing practice, it depends on people, from the Cabinet of Ministers, and it is not certain that they will be the best and most objective criteria, that they will be better than they will be throughout the European Union. I think that try at all now to improve this law by assessing only the situation in Riga, where, to be honest, there are no real crises, thank God, and have not been, there are no surfaces. And the right step would be: a) not to support this proposal; b) to withdraw this draft law from the second reading and to do as proposed by the coalition core for Development/About! , perhaps in anticipation of an alternative proposal coming from the Ministry - VARAM - depths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U126	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U127	We have the words "fair competition" here, and I think it shows that... an objective misunderstanding of fair competition. Because it's just to say we're opening the market, everybody come! As they say, to whom more opportunities and better offers, it gets, as they say, success. But it is such a great plague and an ancient plague in Latvia, in fact, from the 1990s already, because our private forests are currently mostly Scandinavians, for example. Because when you have 100,000 in your pocket and you want to buy some property, and you know that the rest have only a thousand, everything you need is fair competition, and you'll buy it even under market value. We are all very well aware of what are those people who are at the moment inventive, understanding and, in fact, a monopoly, who are those who are ready to take over all the waste in Riga and elsewhere tomorrow morning. They are known. And everything they need right now is fair competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U128	Name to Member Juris Jušas. “ O! Oh!’ ; dep. S. Riekstins: “Aldi, change your opinion again!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U129	Hello, colleagues! Without expecting any previous speaker to change his point of view for the third time, I would like to be very brief on this issue. In my opinion, it is clear that there is a partnership, a ZZS and a "Development/About!" currently actively defends the long-standing interests of waste monopolies who are opposed to free competition. I think it's so... This offer is so self-evident that by opening up this free competition, which in fact... Waste management, it must be understood, is nothing different than a simple taxi. And here in the same way as we choose what taxi we are going to ride, you can also choose who takes this waste from our home. And here, by artificially complexing simple things, you try to mislead the public, try to justify your position, namely defending the waste mafia. We know that for years politicians have been doing their best to prevent free competition in waste management. We know how many entrepreneurs, foreign entrepreneurs, have tried to enter the waste market. We know very well what it's all over. At present, what ZZS, COLLECTED, for Development/About! offers, is to continue to ensure this exclusive monopoly position for current waste managers by... I don't know, call it whatever, the waste mafia. But what should definitely be done is that we should support this proposal today, which would enable the Rigaers to get a cheaper and better-quality service than they are today. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U130	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U131	Mr. Jusch, the way you have now explained your understanding of the waste business is something like that... similar, according to your logic, milk also appears in the refrigerator itself. And about the same thing, you understand the waste business, that there's just one machine that just drives and collects the waste, and nothing more is needed from the whole system. It’s a problem. — Dep. S. Riekstins: “For users, that’s it!” )... I'll try to just say it again to my fingers, so it's very simple if. So what you are doing right now is you want to destroy competition with such a proposal, to destroy the possibility of competition. I'll try it very simple, by analogy, imagine... Imagine that there is (an analogy from the sport let's take) one powerful boxer who just knocked out, and you have a new generation, which is a perspective that could grow and really grow into a real competitor and give... And to kill him... the following... This boxer. What you are saying now means: “No! It's all right, start! Fight in Ringa!” This is what you are now offering. And it's clear what's going to happen. All those who now want to fight him will just get in the mouth, they won't get in, they'll be thrown out of this ring. This is what you are now offering, instead of really creating conditions and enabling these alternative, powerful boxers to grow up, which could now dominate the ring, get out of this ring. You want to give him this... this special opportunity to get everyone out of this playing field by saying that there will be free competition. That is what you now want to achieve. Either you absolutely don't understand anything, or, I don't know, maybe you've hung something in between... and you are simple (interim call.) obvious things cannot be understood, or in fact these words try to cover up this waste mafia. You've become her lobby. Being an opportunity for power in Riga, you will just be able to start these things... starting to sort out.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U132	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U133	Yes, I really do not believe that we should send our money outside Latvia and try to get Estonians to manage our waste. I think we can do it ourselves and... Yeah... this money should be left in Latvia. But I thought it was comical to mention a taxi thing. There... We had free competition here or not, everything was fantastic. How do we get there now? What, then, is Minister Linkait fighting at the moment? How was it? How much did the taxi from the airport to Riga pay? ( Interface: “There is free competition! ” ) After all interesting, free competition was! A perfect example!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U134	The name to the Member Martyn Stackey. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ; dep. A. Gobzem: “He wants me to change my mind.” ; dep. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U135	Yes, honourable colleagues, I am not here to recover Alda Gobzem's support, but more to respond to what the UKP colleagues have said by calling us a waste mafia or a waste mafia supporters... I would like to remind you that in paragraph 4, you voted in favour of a monopoly in municipalities. You have already shown today your vote that you are in favour of a monopoly. But why do I not believe in this system offered by free competition? That's a good idea. There is free competition, I do not know, four suppliers, such as Riga. Everyone is struggling for a client, trying to win with quality, trying to win with price. Well, let's assume that Riga needs, I don't know, 100 waste machines to export all of Riga's waste. So the question is, those who... What will these four try to achieve? Of course, from the beginning the same most profitable customers - Rimi, Maxima -, those who have huge volumes. Who will export the waste, for example, to a pensioner in Bolderaya? ( INTERPRETATION FROM THE GROUP: “Yes! ” ) No one will want to take over their client, but we need to ensure that they do not have the opportunity to refuse to export waste to Bolderaja's aunt. And what happens? These four suppliers, in principle all, will have to keep 100 cars, because they must be able to export all waste. How can it reduce the price, colleagues? No way! This cannot reduce the price. The same applies to these waste containers. One day one takes the container, the other day the other takes the container, but everyone has to keep many containers. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) There are many other examples that suggest that this cannot lead to price reductions. That is the main reason why I do not support these amendments. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U136	The name is Sandy Riekstin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Well, let go, Sandi!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U137	Hello, colleagues! I'm so embarrassing to hear that a voice of harmony is coming here and telling you something. For your sake, all this has started in the Riga City Council - because of the purchase of one monopoly! You're... Why didn't you go, you didn't teach your colleagues how to chart correctly? You weren't there. Now you're teaching us here, huh? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Sandi, who was at the Riga City Council - you or us?” ) Uniquely! Uniquely! I always did this in my domain - I pointed out these things, but your icon didn't care. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) Colleagues! How strange it is to listen! — Dep. A. Gobzems: “You were in the Riga City Council!” ) that somewhere waste will be exported and somewhere waste will not be removed. We will never record our conscience or integrity in law. The procuring entity can regulate these matters by means of the procurement rules already today. You don't have to make any additional law. The law is now being changed precisely because the municipality did not do so for the sake of greed. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U138	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U139	Hello! Listening to what you are talking to me, I have a question: what do you even have a waste disposal agreement? Is that all right? Do you even know how this happens? You said that there is no waste in Riga, nothing is... It's all like a moss. Where? Show me here you don't get between the wastebins. While the question has been submitted for half a year at the Riga Council, all Riga residents are also open contracts, and every month invoices come... Once every three months, but... each month, a separate invoice to be paid for the shipment of their waste. You're talking, yeah, about the price. Well how can you reduce the price if you... For example, three or four different cars drive past your home. These are big cars, they are not any Volvo cars, but huge cars that also pollute our air so that you can feel the smell of a big truck for half an hour. And lead... three four times a week different cars drive on the same route. They consume petrol much more than if one machine... If, for example, one company left Purvciems, the other Plivnieki, the third one from China, it's going to be a savings. But you don't want to do that. So let's think how really economic... so that its prices will be cheaper, not just higher prices! You don't have to take care of your sponsors so much! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U140	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you. Depp. K. Feldman: “Did you pay for the road, Mārtiņš?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U141	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I heard from this troupe here (The Head of the Sitting knocked down with a hammer.) that a group in which I also read the Member in support of the Mafia. ( The internouncing; dep.) A. Gobzem: “But you are all like them!” ) I would like to say something else. I mean... quote Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņa. Yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, he said on the television that everyone should do his job before criticising someone else. So I will call on all members of the coalition to turn to Mr Kariņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U142	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U143	There is nothing to be added on behalf of the Commission, which can be explained. At the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, all arguments for and against, as well as a number of other arguments, appear to have been raised. I would therefore remind you that this proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U144	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion tabled by Members Feldman, Riekstin, Wittenberg, Kursīte and Leieniņa! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 51, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U145	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Members' Groups - Feldman, Riekstin, Wittenberg, Kursīte and Leieniņa. The money has withdrawn its signature. The substance of the proposal is to delete the wording on... offering zones. So this issue is linked to the model of the zones. The Commission was supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U146	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal by Members Feldman, Riekstin, Wittenberg, Kursīte and Leieniņa! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 15, for - 6. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U147	Here is a group of proposals (from proposal 11) relating to the question of whether those operators who are exempt from the payment of natural resources tax (in other words, those who manage their own waste... in part), - whether or not these economic operators have or are not entitled to purchase services outside them... outside which the local authority has contracted. This is a controversial issue that has been discussed in various parliamentary elections for a long time, and it has been seen in the government. The Competition Council’s view has historically been that economic operators exempt from payment of the natural resource tax should be entitled to purchase themselves the disposal service from economic operators other than those contracted by the municipality in the territory in question, thereby creating at least a certain degree of competition in that area. So Mr. Zarins offered a version of the first reading that had been submitted... proposed by the notifier, - to exclude these exempted economic operators from their choice of the exporter of the waste. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U148	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U149	Yeah, colleagues. I tabled this proposal with the aim of having a debate on this really controversial issue. With the idea that when we have the competence to debate this, we would find the optimal compromise. Because I believe that it is really possible to find a compromise here and create some additional opportunities. But in a context like this is currently enshrined in the law... What does it do in essence? This provision lobbies the interests of large waste producers in the interests of the rest of the public. That's one. And the other. This provision, by its very nature, will not sort out this market, but will distort. And, in principle, the Competition Council itself... when it was asked to explain, justify its position, it was also finally confirmed that, in principle, its understanding was about a completely different market situation, not specifically about that situation, when there are different markets - different! - level consumers and competition take place not on this market, but on the fact that one of these markets can read... that it is possible for any of this market to read the most advantageous - the most advantageous! - waste producers. What does that mean? That means... if we have the system that we're talking about now and what we're looking at... if we have these areas, it means that the operator in the area in question who is obliged to dispose of the waste from that area... that he will already have to pay the price for his offer that those operators who have the right to choose other providers of these services... that they can... they may not... This means that they will have to bear the costs for the rest of the... the rest of this waste... at the expense of the waste producers. That means that the simple... A simple aunt, the ordinary citizen will lose out of this principle, because it will be passed on to him all the costs that this producer... this waste manager... had planned to cover these large waste producers, which you are now offering to take away. Why, though, will they be taken away? Because objectively the service provider who will have to cover both less profitable and more profitable waste producers will not be able to offer as favourable a tariff as the one that will offer... who will only want to manage these bigger ones; who will only untie these handkerchiefs from that pie... objectively, he will be able to offer a cheaper tariff than the one who will have to manage everyone else. And as a result, we will not achieve effective competition, but competition that distorts markets. And there is no need for such competition. That is why my proposal was - either we are debating and finding a better solution, or we are then rejecting this proposal, or this rule of law is being passed out. Unfortunately, the commission was unable to debate it, it was not capable... was not ready to look for a better solution. Therefore, my call is that we remove such a rule from the law because it is objective, it is necessary. Otherwise, we simply lobby the interests of individual businesses with such a norm. Let's say, Rimi, Maxima... they will be able to earn more on it again, at the expense of the rest of society. I call for this provision to be removed from the field.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U150	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U151	I will talk about Mr. Zarins' proposal, because next, 11, - Mr. Money... And also my, 13, proposal... in principle, everyone is the same. Well, colleagues, to compare a wastebin's car with a taxi -- that's what I think is the highest pilotage already. Well, it's hard to imagine something like that. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Sometimes it is!” ) It also shows their understanding of how to organise a waste business in general. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) But in this case, there's a close connection... And here I would really like to turn to Mr. Stack. Your previous speech was actually... I very much hope that you will do what you have just said from the platform. In fact, your speech was about this proposal, not about the previous one, because, by its very nature, you said the main things that are about this proposal. I would therefore also call on you to vote in favour of this and the next two proposals. Yeah... What's going on? It is no surprise that I am tabling this proposal. I'm talking about this idea and this injustice in this law... I have already spoken before the first reading and, of course, I have also tabled a proposal. That means that that aunt in that Bolderaya... and not only Aunt in Bolderaja, but also Aunt in Bauska, Aunt somewhere in the Sala district, near Jēkabpils - they will have to look in the eyes after those who supported this proposal, and they will have to explain why they have this waste invoice... it will increase, not by percentage, but by step. Because it's the profit - it's the only profit. And as a result, what will we benefit from all this? We will, of course, get new sponsors for Riga Basketball Club, it is guaranteed, it will happen right away. There will be a lot of happy entrepreneurs who will really be able to immerse themselves in this way. But society as a whole will only suffer, and society as a whole all these challenges facing the European Union... it's only going in the opposite direction. In my opinion, this proposal must be supported, it is a very fundamental proposal. It is going to keep the existing system, but it is against that the most profitable part - that is the most profitable part! - Take it out... removed from the field of this general principle. And Mr. Zarins already told it. That's the aunt in Bolderaya and no matter where... in any microdistrict... even the residents of the center - even the residents of the center! - there will be those who will pay more. So, Mr. Stakis, your speech was really ten. On the wrong proposal... This proposal had to be addressed. And you compared this tunt in Bolderaya... This is about the Tanti Bolderaya. This proposal is in favour and I call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U152	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U153	Mr. Valains! I do not, of course, know which proposal I have to say what I am now talking about. In particular, I have observed that since the former President Vejonis or the ex-president Vejonis has become President of the Latvian Basketball Union, you are very often talking about basketball financing.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U154	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained? ( The box “Remembered? ”) ; dep. Bondar: “But on which proposal?” ; intermediate words: “Mārtiņš... “ At 12! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U155	I remind you, colleagues, that 11. - Mr Zarina's proposal - the Commission was not supported. I have to agree with Mr. Valaiņš that 12 and 13. - Mr Money and Mr Valaiņa's proposal are, in fact, identical. And in the case of a vote... it would then also cover these proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U156	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U157	We have also examined proposals 12 and 13. The next one is 14. - Member's Pavļuta's proposal, which editorially clarifies the wording of the first reading, based on our recommendations, excluding the reference to the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations and established criteria, because, according to our opinion, it is no longer necessary at the moment. In the Commission, this proposal was not supported, thus leaving the wording of the first reading in force. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U158	Are Members willing to vote? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Note: “Yes!” ; intermediate: “Yes, of course!” ) So... However, this is also non-voting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Pavilut: “There’s a way! 14 is put to the vote, yes!’ ) and put to the vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Pavluta's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U159	Okay. I've got something confused with the table. Excuse me, colleagues. Please, just a minute... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There's no cut-off sheet here. ( Insight, “You’re not ready! ”) ) Yes, well.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U160	Proposal 15 was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U161	Proposal 15 is Minister for Economic Affairs Nemiro...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U162	And 16. Also withdrawn. 15 and 16. - Cancel.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U163	Yes, these are the proposals of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemir, who have not been supported by the Commission and have been withdrawn. Consequently, no vote can be taken. That brings us to 17. - the proposal by the Member, Mr Pavilut, on transitional provisions. Proposal 17 was partly supported due to the fact that the proposal had two parts. The first part concerned the introduction of a model of areas previously rejected by the Commission, which made it obsolete. On the other hand, the second part of the proposal, which concerns the regulation of operators who do not pay natural resources tax, remains in force and is included in 18. - a proposal from the committee responsible which has been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U164	Members agree? ( Interface: “Accompanied! ”) ) I voted in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U165	About 17.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U166	Members wish to vote on the 17th proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Pavluta's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 35, for - 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U167	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. These are transitional provisions for the natural resource tax... exempted economic operators. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U169	Finally, 19. - a proposal by a group of Members regarding the manner in which the new model of licensing, which is the time limit for the transitional provisions, enters into force. This proposal cannot be put to the vote, as Amendment 9 was rejected by the Saeima at second reading. ( The interdependencies of the fraction are: “Rightly! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U170	The proposal is therefore not to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U171	Consequently, I call for the vote on the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U172	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 1, for - 5. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U173	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 20 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U174	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 March this year. Draft law on the first reading of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part. On behalf of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U175	Hello, colleagues! A small amount of your attention to foreign law! It is related to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, signed in Brussels in October 2018. This agreement will be another step towards an improved political and economic involvement of the European Union in South-East Asia. And this agreement will complement the free trade agreement already concluded between the European Union and Singapore in 2012, as well as the agreement on investment protection ratified by our Saeima in 2019. This specific agreement includes the European Union's standard political clauses on human rights, the International Criminal Court, weapons and the fight against terrorism. It also covers cooperation in areas such as health, the environment, climate change, energy, taxation, education, culture, work, employment, social issues, science and technology and transport. The agreement also details important issues related to judicial cooperation, money laundering, terrorist financing, organised crime and corruption. The Agreement also contains general principles for facilitating cooperation in the field of trade and investment. The agreement will also be the basis for more effective bilateral involvement of Latvia... cooperation with Singapore, strengthening our dialogue and improving cooperation. And the obligations set out in the agreement will be fulfilled, as will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for other similar contracts. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U176	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the first reading of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U177	The deadline is 9 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U178	The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 March this year. Dear colleagues, Members Zakaistov, Kursīte, Pucens, Girgens, Krapāne, Vitenbergs, Puga and Benhen-Beeken are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U179	Dear colleagues, I would like to express my thanks once again to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry (Interface: "About What?" ) on the work done in connection with the OIC. As you have seen, the negotiations on the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry were remden. It was rendezvous, because the facts that we have before us are the truth. And often silently presented truth (Dep. I. Zarins: “Sold-known!” ) is louder than screaming. We want this draft law, this amendment to the Electricity Market Act, to be directed towards the Commission in order to remove the overpayment paid in connection with the OIC. This will, of course, benefit citizens, but it is also linked to risks, and these risks are litigation risks. But we call for this draft law to be directed further to the Commission, despite these risks. If we look at all the sad round of OIC, what we see there is - we see that everything is so much, very frustrating! Perhaps two questions should be asked: how could this happen and what could be done next? How could this happen? Its replies have been given. There has been a long-standing political negligence. But what to do with this stunned... Is that so? I think it's right now to compare it with the Gordy node. Mythology says that the French chose their king on the basis of the oracles that the man who entered the chariot would become king. And with thanksgiving, Gordie sowed them his chariots on the stake, and no one could untie the knot; it should have been cut off. We understand that this will be a legal issue, so that this draft law is passed on to the commissions, as co-responsible we want to see the Legal Commission. So, how could all this happen? Unfortunately, that is all because of negligence. How to deal with this? It cannot be dissipated. All this has also become a symbol. It is a symbol of the old policy in comparison with the new policy. And if we are going forward, if we want to see our country differently, we need to move this OIC node as a symbol of the old policy. And this can be done by decisively removing overpayments and by going ahead - despite the risks of litigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U180	Mr. Ainars Latkovskis has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U181	Without questioning the good intentions of colleagues who have been draft laws, I would nevertheless like to say - and they have also recognised this in their explanatory notes - that the draft law is fiscally influential. Let's say that. ( Milestones.) This is it. — Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “We pay for everything!” )... Yes. ( Internouncing call.) It would have been good if someone were fiscal. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) ... Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Fiscal Conservative Finance would now speak 'no' because - why do I call for the commissions not to be handed over today? Because if we do this next week, there will be a week for the Ministry of Finance to prepare an opinion on the impact of this draft law on the national budget. I therefore call for a 'no' vote this time so that there is at least one week in time for the Ministry of Finance to prepare its opinion. ( Interface: “What a surprise! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U182	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. We will vote in favour of putting the draft law on the agenda of the sitting. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the inclusion of the draft law on the electricity market (Dep. A. Gobzem: “UKP - wi, wi, wi!” ) The Saeima will sit on the agenda! Please vote mode! ( Internouncing call.) Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” Thank you very much. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. ( Internouncing call.) The agenda of the sitting will be examined further. Draft law “On Agreement on Extension of the Agreement on European Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the European Space Agency”, first reading. Member of the Commission on Foreign Affairs Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U183	Hello, honorary Saeima! Latvia needs to extend cooperation with the European Space Agency. In recent years, cooperation has been successful, and many Latvian entrepreneurs have also been involved in projects, developed new products related to space technologies. And the call should support this agreement and recognise the draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U184	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the extension of the European Cooperation State Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the European Space Agency! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U185	Yeah. The call should now be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U186	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the first reading of the agreement on the extension of the European Cooperation State Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the European Space Agency! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U187	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days. And consideration - next, next Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U188	So the dates... What? For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U189	So the dates would be: 5 March...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U190	Time limit for the submission of proposals - 3 March, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 5 March this year. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Andrejs Judine, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U191	Dear colleagues, Draft Law No 550/Lp13 has been developed taking into account the codification process and intends to transfer administrative offences, which are currently defined in the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, to this law. It is proposed to supplement the law by Chapter XV on "Administrative Offences in Electronic Media and Competence in Administrative Offences". At the Commission's meeting, it was, by the way, also of the opinion that the system of offences in question should be reviewed, but no one, of course, questioned the need to create a new chapter. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U192	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -63, for -no, for -18. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U193	March 5th.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U194	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U195	Having examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy decided to support the said draft law and to direct its examination at the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” was developed by the Ministry of Economics in order to exclude delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to set requirements for building committee members regarding experience and class for public works in building groups and to remove mandatory application of classification of building committee members in case of public works contract. The aim of the implementation and mandatory application of the classification of construction cooperatives was to create a framework that would ensure a meaningful and objective assessment of the experience of the construction merchant, as well as to reduce the bureaucratic burden by substantially reducing the obligations on the applicant to provide evidence for its compliance and qualification with the public procurement process. Professional organisations in the construction sector - those that initiated the development of the classification of construction companies - after several years of discussions with the state administration about the conceptual solutions for applying the classification of construction companies, recognise that there is a small and fragmented construction market in Latvia, therefore it is not possible to develop an effective, uniform and clear classification system for construction companies that would be suitable for all building groups, and that the classification of construction companies may reduce the competitiveness of local construction companies against foreign construction companies in Latvia, because the classification institution cannot, by nature, examine all information submitted by foreign companies in order to obtain the qualification class. Thus, amendments to the Law on Public Procurement have been developed, and they intend to exclude the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to set requirements for construction co-operatives regarding the experience and class of public works in building groups, as well as to amend the conditions regarding mandatory application of classification of construction co-operatives to the assessment of construction co-operative as a candidate in the public procurement process. The Commission has examined the draft law at its meeting and is asking for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U196	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U197	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U198	Let us start a debate. The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U199	Yes, colleagues, this is actually an excellent example of how we should not do. I don't know if any of you remember - it was 2016, 2017 when this classification was decided, talked and tried to introduce something there. The involvement of industry, which was also mentioned here by the Ministry. In fact, this “story” was treasured by only one organization – the society “Latvian Builders’ Partnership”; this is stated in the claim. They're the only ones there. I know that at that time other building organisations also made their proposals, which were linked to both the subcontractor... the contractor's liability for subcontractors and so on. This, of course, has not been taken into account. These are the things that have been developed here... four of these groups in which these contractors qualified. And in fact, at the moment I can even say that it was another double lobby, because there was a system of points, how it assessed which class to assign. And there was, at those points, another criterion: if the contractor is not a member of any non-governmental organisation, then he added these points. In principle, in this way, this organisation can still get additional members who maintain it and pay it. I don't claim this happened, but right now, given that we're repealing this... then I have a question: why was it ever created? At the time of the process, seminars were held, money was spent, what was going to happen and what was not going to happen. Entrepreneurs “in the exercise” – arranged additional documents to so hit the best of those four classes in it to be better, let's say, an opportunity in the competition. And more and more. All this was done, everyone used money, including the state, and the final state capital company itself ignores it.... This is an accurate example: “The State Forests of Latvia” has never taken this into account. Never. And now we have reached what is, of course, good. This Saeima, I hope, will cancel what is not working, but the question remains - as one organisation that only represents large builders mostly, it could simply engulf and plant this that it is very necessary, knowing well that the national system cannot do so, they cannot connect this together. That's impossible! This is also a good example and a good lesson for us, as new Members, how we should not do, and I hope that the Ministry of Economics, although it is no longer the fault of today's minister, is not at all... ever say words of apology to all those businessmen who have been ‘grooming’ for two or three years have spent money on a pointless event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U200	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U201	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U202	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U203	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 March this year. Second reading of the draft law: 12 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U204	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 March this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 12 March this year. Time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Honorary Commission Chairmen! On behalf of the Bureau, I invite you to meet at the Guest Hall in five minutes. Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U205	High honourable Members! Not registered: Jānis Adamsons... No, Raimond Bergmann... I don't see, Vyacheslav Dombrovskis... No, Raivis Dzintars... No, Gatis Eglytis... No, Mary Golubeva... No, I'm not, Inese Rectsen... No, Richard Cole... No, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere... I don't see, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Vita Anda Steel, Jānis Vitenbergs... I see, I see... and Evita Zalīte-Gross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U206	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U207	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. The request to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir, ‘On the avoidance of the Minister for Economics in relation to the results of the tests carried out by the public electricity trader’. Honourable Members! Members Zarins, Lochmele-Lunov, Urbanovich, Krišāns, Orlovs, Klementjevs, Cilevičs, Niconovs, Goldbergs and Kabanov have submitted a request to Minister for Economics Ralf Nemiro about the avoidance of the Minister for Economics in relation to the results of the tests carried out by the public trader of electricity. Name to motivate Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U208	Colleagues! As you know, there are words and there are works. And often what is promised is totally inconsistent with what is being done. Especially if we are talking about politics. Especially if we are talking about OICs. As you know, we have politicians who, with foam on their lips, tell us how they are fighting the OIC. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucen’s exclamation.) However, when the real circumstances of the case begin to be examined, either suddenly there is no such argument, everything disappears, or it begins desperately to hide it. And this is the case with so-called OIC station inspections. Thanks to the activities implemented by the Saeima, it was possible to force that the test is carried out by professionals. And these results are presented to the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry of Economics was anxious, desperately unwilling to do so. Now that the results of these tests are available to the Ministry of Economics, it seems that the stations have been tested, you can tell again how much has been done... The reality of the case shows the opposite: that the Ministry of Economics, having collected the results of these checks, does not respond adequately to them. That is, what can be seen from the results of these tests even by a non-specialist, thanks to the fact that the experts have really professionally checked it all and written it all in an understandable language - it is obvious that the test data show that fraud is particularly high in many, many stations. What about the Ministry of Economy? Almost nothing! They did not even want to check much of the results of these tests at all! They were asked, “What is your reaction?” - “Well, we haven’t yet tested.” And that's what it's been wearing for a year, for more than a year. And only after the requests were made here for the Ministry of Economics to account for their actions, they started to do something. Since the deadline for all these checks had expired, we requested that the Ministry of Economics submit the results of these checks and we also wanted to know the Ministry of Economics' actions in line with those results. For no reason can the Ministry of Economics do so. What the Minister for Economics now offers - the first time he avoided everything, the second time he said that he would give the results of these checks orally. Then imagine 300 stations, each of which has several pages! But he says, “I will not reply to you in writing, we will give you an oral answer.” What is the purpose of doing so? In order to convince the public that he is really fighting this scene, or to try desperately to hide the fact that it is, in fact, a new political industry for the Ministry of Economics? So: a new political party - a new political concern for the Ministry of Economics. Instead of fighting it, to cover it. And to make sure it is this request. We demand the results of these inspections. If it is not true that the Ministry of Economics is covering all of this, then it will have no problem giving us the results of these tests and accountability for its actions in relation to them. The moment of truth is close.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U209	The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. We're going on with the law. Draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U210	We are going on, colleagues, on the same subject in principle... I told you before I stopped... Having examined the draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy decided to support it and to direct it to consideration at the first reading of the Saeima. Amendments to the Law on Public Service Providers' Procurement are prepared to exclude delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to set requirements for construction contestants regarding experience and class for the performance of public works in building groups and to remove mandatory application of classification of construction contestants in the case of a construction contract. All this is exactly what I told you earlier. This draft law also covers... related to the previous draft law. At its meeting, the Commission examined the draft law and asked for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U211	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -5, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U212	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U213	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U214	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 March this year, second reading of the draft law - 12 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U215	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 5 March this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 12 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U216	In the Commission we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission decided to support this draft law and to direct it to the Parliamentary session at first reading. As well as these amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership have been prepared to exclude delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to set requirements for construction cooperatives regarding their experience and class for public works in building groups and to remove mandatory application of classification of building cooperatives in case of a works concession agreement. So this too is about the same and associated with the previous two. The draft law has been examined by the Commission at its meeting and has been requested to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U217	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U218	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U219	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U220	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 March this year. Second reading of the draft law: 12 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U221	Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 5 March this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 12 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U222	Having examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy decided to support the said draft law and to direct its examination at the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Finance with the aim of improving the legal framework of the Law on Public Procurement in order to achieve the promotion of transparency and competition between suppliers in procurement, as well as to increase the quality of procurement preparation and reduce corruption risks in public procurement. That's... The main amendments envisaged are, for example, the obligation to publish a prior information notice at a certain contract price, the obligation to terminate the procurement procedure in the absence of competition between suppliers, provided that the suppliers were not consulted in accordance with certain requirements before it was launched, and the conditions for the establishment and operation of the procurement committee have been improved. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U223	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U224	The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U225	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U226	Having examined the draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy decided to support the said draft law and to direct it to consideration at the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Finance, its aim is to improve the legal framework of the Public Service Providers Procurement Law in order to increase the promotion of transparency and competition between suppliers in procurement, as well as to increase the quality of procurement preparation and reduce corruption risks in public procurement. These are exactly the same amendments as those already mentioned in the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement’. The Commission has supported the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U227	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U228	The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U229	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 26 March this year. Draft Act ‘Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U230	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration at the Second Reading of the Saeima’s Meeting the draft law “Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries”. Draft law is prepared by the Ministry of Finance. 41 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. A more precise definition. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U232	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The definition is also clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U234	3. - Proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš to extend the definition of real estate transaction. Members considered this to be too broad and instructed the Ministry to prepare a new version of the third reading. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U235	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U236	4. - That's Mr. Wittenberg's proposal. The aim of the draft legislation has been clarified and extended, since it initially only covered the activities of these intermediaries, but it should also cover the whole set. So partially supported by the Commission. Incorporated in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U237	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U238	Next... Legal Bureau. The purpose of the law is also clarified. And, like the previous proposal, the Commission has been partly supported and included in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U239	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U240	6. - a proposal from the commission responsible for the purpose of this draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U242	7. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau to change the title of an article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U244	Next: a clarification proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U246	9. - John Reere's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U247	Members... ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal submitted by Finance Minister Reira! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U248	Thank you. 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister of Finance Mr. Jānis Reirs to exclude the third part of the article, because this rule is already being discussed at a different point in the bill. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U250	11. - Proposal by Jurģis Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics on... Lists persons not covered by this draft law. In the Commission, Members felt that this was not really necessary. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U251	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U252	12. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U254	13. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Commission was not supported, but was tasked with preparing a new version of the third reading. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U255	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U256	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Legal Bureau clarification proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U258	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Krišjānis Feldman's proposal on real estate business insurance... the removal of this paragraph from the draft law. After the discussions, the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U259	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U260	16. - Daniels Paviluts' proposal on the Cabinet of Ministers... an incentive to set minimum requirements for the Cabinet of Ministers necessary for the professional qualification of business intermediaries. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U261	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U262	Hello, fellow Members, again! Proposals 16 and 17 can be seen in some ways as both talk about the type of delegation that should be given to the Cabinet of Ministers in relation to real estate brokers or brokers, as we know them on a daily basis. The situation is that this draft law has originally been drafted and directed towards anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing issues. These issues are, of course, covered by the law, but there is also another aspect of real estate business. It is so that in practice there is an enormous dispersion in Latvia regarding the competence of the people who deal with these transactions. And most people - I think, absolutely most people! - In the Republic of Latvia transactions in real estate are literally one or two times in life, and these are the largest transactions they ever do. Because real estate, inherited or acquired, redeemed or otherwise in the course of life is the most valuable thing that people own. And, unfortunately, there have been quite a lot of cases in practice, and there are also some loud surnames, both for defrauding the land for the elderly and for misleading people in real estate transactions where they have done... nor did they hurt people in Latvia. Consequently, my proposal was to conceptually consider and instruct the Cabinet not only as required by the proposal of the Ministry of Economics... provide for an obligation to define qualification requirements - to learn, to attend courses, as in a number of professions it is. My proposal also provided for the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to define how this profession is certified. During the discussion in the Commission, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance argued that all this is terriblely difficult, it is impossible that it becomes a regulated profession, that it should be seen in the European Union, that a five-year transitional provision is needed... You know, we looked at it afterwards, and we did not find any evidence that these claims would be true. Certification can take different forms. The aim here is to put in place the definition of a minimum set of professional requirements that must be met by people who undertake to be mediators in the sale of property that is most valuable to people. To make it clear how we deal with situations where people have been deceived and deceived, and in what way, in fact... The penalty is whether the risk is borne by those who act immorally and, indeed, do so. So that would be a proposal. I call for support. And do not support the next proposal - the Ministry of Economics - because it is much less powerful than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U263	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U264	Yeah. The previous speaker rightly said that proposals 16 and 17 should be seen together. Members of the Commission, as I said, did not support proposal 16, but supported it 17. - Ministry of Economics.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U265	Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Pavluta's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. ( The interdependencies of the fraction. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U266	Thank you. Proposal No 17 The Ministry of Economy's proposal that real estate brokers need to constantly improve their... the improvement of qualifications and this will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U268	18. - the proposal by Minister of Finance Janis Reira, editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U270	19. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U272	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Krišjānis Feldman's proposal to exclude Article 8 of the draft law. Also for this insurance, which was already in the past. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U273	Neither is there a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U274	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Krišjānis Feldman's proposal to exclude Article 8, first paragraph, point 2 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U276	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U278	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Krišjānis Feldman's proposal to exclude Article 10 of the bill. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U279	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U280	24. - Legal Bureau's proposal, clarification. The Commission supports and incorporates proposal 26.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U281	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U282	25. - Legal Bureau's proposal, including editorial. The Commission supports and incorporates proposal 26.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U283	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U284	26. - the proposal by Minister of Finance Janis Reirs on the broker's liability. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U286	27. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U288	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U290	29. - Member Janis Witenbergs' proposal on the ethics of real estate brokers. In similar professions, such a code of ethics already exists. My proposal is also to introduce it to real estate brokers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U292	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 32.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U293	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U294	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included in proposal 32.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U295	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U296	32. - the proposal of Minister of Finance Janis Reira, who determines the tasks of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U298	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included in proposal 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U299	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U300	34. - the proposal of Minister of Finance Janis Reira on the rights of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U302	35. - the proposal by Minister of Finance Janis Reira on the possibility of exclusion from the register of intermediaries. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U304	36. - Legal Bureau clarification proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U306	37. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U308	38. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Commission was not supported, but was not supported, not because it is in some way bad, but... the specific dates of these transitional provisions will be known at the third reading, then we will consider them at the third reading. In this case, the 38th proposal was not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U309	Are Members willing to vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - the proposal submitted by Finance Minister Reira! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 7, for - 64, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U310	39. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U312	40. - a editorial proposal by Minister of Finance Janis Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U314	And 41. - same as the previous one I mentioned... on transitional provisions... For the same purpose, neither was it supported by the Commission, but we will clarify and support the third reading. Yeah. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U315	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for 41. - Finance Minister Reira's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U316	We have examined all the proposals. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U317	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the bill “Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 67, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals. ( Interface: “Do not pull long! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U318	Thank you for your support. Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading - 19.03.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U319	Mart, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U320	March. March 19th.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U321	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 19 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U322	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U323	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša. Mrs Chash, you have to report a bill. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Sounds like noise. Imposition: “You can’t remember which party is in!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U324	No, I remember the party. I am sorry for (Minimum: “For Development/About!” ?” Thank you. Substitution: “Pleasure!” Thank you very much. ... I hope that everyone is pretending. I would really like to report at this point on the amendments to the medical law that have been examined by the Saeima's Committee on Social and Labour Affairs. And now we have one proposal... in the commission... who is supported by the Commission... which is a proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis. And this proposal is supported by the Commission. I also ask you to support Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U326	Okay. Therefore, please support the amendments to the law on treatment at second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U327	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U328	The deadline for proposals is two weeks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U329	Date? Give me the calendar, please, Mrs. Chash. ( The intermediate call: “Who promises more? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U330	That's...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U331	So, let's say, March 12? Is that okay? (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U332	Thank you. March 12th.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U333	March 12th. You use it?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U335	Is the Commission useful? Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 12 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U336	Hello, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and their Liquids” was approved by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs and prepared for second reading. This is a draft codification law. And to the second reading, six proposals were received. 1. is the proposal of the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele, to exclude the first paragraph of Article 14 of the draft law, which provided for penalties for the purchase of tobacco products, herbal smoking products, electronic smoking devices or their filling tanks by a person under the age of 18 because the sanctions for these offences are provided for in the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U338	2. There is also a proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele, which specifies the bodies involved in administrative infringement proceedings. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U340	3, it turns out, there is also a proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele. The proposal was partly supported by the Commission and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U341	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U342	4. is a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which is also partly supported and included in the committee 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U343	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U344	5. is the proposal of the Social and Labour Commission, which provides for the addition of the transitional provisions by paragraph 14 stating that paragraph 11 of the second paragraph of Article 12 and Articles 14 and 15 of this Law shall enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Responsibility. The second paragraph of Article 14 shall apply to other tobacco products from 20 May 2024. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U346	6. is the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which proposes to exclude the provision concerning the entry into force of the law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U348	I call on my fellow Members to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U349	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U350	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 12 March 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U351	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on the Convention of 2 February 1971 on wetlands of international importance, in particular as a living environment for waterbirds”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U352	Hello, colleagues! Your attention at second reading is given to amendments to the law laying down amendments to the convention, also known as the Ramsar Convention. I have been asked by some colleagues whether Ramsara is in Finland. No, Ramsara (I inform you) is located in Iran, off the Caspian Sea. And there this Convention was adopted in 1971. The amendments will not extend the number of protected areas already established by this Convention in Latvia. It's going to stay six. However, the territory of Kaņieris will expand throughout the protected area of Ķemeri. And will also change the title of the Ministry, because when we joined the Convention, only the Ministry of the Environment existed and now the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development will be responsible. No proposals were received for the second reading. So I ask you to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U353	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Convention of 2 February 1971 on Wetlands of International Interest, especially as Waterbirds’ Life Environment”” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U354	The deadline for submission is ten days, i.e. until 9 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U355	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 March this year. Draft law “Law on Administrative Penalty Offences in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U356	Hello, colleagues! A total of 32 proposals were received by the Commission for a second reading. One of these is the proposal of Members Valeria Agešina and Ivan Ribakova to exclude the use of the state language from the title of the law. In the Commission, this proposal was not supported as it would exclude the protection of the national language from the scope of the law, which would make the right of citizens to receive services in the national language more difficult.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U357	Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U358	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to believe that the majority of those present would like to participate in the establishment of an orderly regulatory system that would be fair and understandable to people. It should be stated that this draft law does not comply with the administrative liability system laid down in the Administrative Liability Law, which provides that the administrative offences and the penalties applicable to them shall be determined by the laws regulating the relevant sector or by the binding rules of the municipalities. The sectoral law usually regulates issues such as the tasks of a particular sector, governance, rights and obligations of persons associated with the activities of the sector, including liability. On the other hand, the norms contained in the aforementioned draft law are devoted only to issues of administrative responsibility. In order to avoid this conflict with the Administrative Liability Act, it is necessary to amend the title of the draft law that we propose to do. Articles 1 and 2 must also be clarified, and Chapter 4 and Article 31 of the draft law must be excluded, given that the use and protection of the state language are regulated by a completely different law - the State Language Law. And so, if someone wants to open a discussion on language issues, then amendments to the Law on the State Language should be submitted. We therefore propose to give the title of the law included in the draft law in the following wording: “Administrative Penalty Law on Violations in the Field of Administration and Public Order”. Our proposal is fully in line with the position and opinion of the Legal Bureau on this subject, and I therefore call for support for proposal 1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U359	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U360	Yeah. The Commission did not support this proposal. The Ministry of Justice and the State Language Centre, which are the responsible authorities for this draft law, also asked them not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U361	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the motion tabled by Members Agešina and Ribakova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 23, 51, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U362	2. is a proposal of the Legal Commission, which was drawn up in view of the need to define definitions for several terms in several articles of the law. In Article 2 and Article 2, the terms ‘public place’ and ‘public authority’ are defined by these terms, which are used further in other articles of the law. The Commission supported this proposal. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U363	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 22, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U364	3. is a technical proposal of the Legal Bureau regarding the title of the chapter of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U366	4. is the Legal Commission's proposal for failure to provide information, inadequate provision of information or false information to an institution where responsibility is offered to board members, excluding them from the right to take up positions in commercial companies... If the first reading was scheduled for up to five years, then the proposal is up to three years, because the Ministry of Justice recognised that five years in the draft law had in fact remained wrong. The Legal Commission supported this, 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U368	5. is a proposal made by the Legal Commission. Refers to an offence that is an attack on a service dog or a service dog disorder. This draft proposal was supported as this type of infringement may be present in several services and therefore it is not appropriate to define these infringements each time in each sectoral law, but it is more appropriate to define the particular type of infringement in that law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U370	6. is a technical proposal by the Legal Office concerning the title of the division. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U372	7. is a proposal by the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns regarding public presence with an open or open packaging of an alcoholic beverage. In the Commission, this proposal was partly supported by the creation of 8. - the Commission's proposal, because this proposal, the Minister of Justice, did not cover responsibility for other intoxicating substances. The authorities to which those provisions apply also found it difficult to apply that provision, given that it is difficult to establish what is the open packaging of an alcoholic beverage, which, for example, part of the content of an alcoholic beverage must be contained in that open packaging to establish that it has been. Similarly, a proposal by the Legal Commission was made for responsibility for the use of alcoholic beverages or other intoxicating substances at a public place or at a public place in a state of dizziness, where that situation would interfere with or could interfere with public order or safety. That's 8. - The legal commission's proposal. Thus 7, partially supported by the inclusion of 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U373	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U374	8. Is, as I said, the Commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U376	9. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which lays down responsibility for minor personal injury. This, in fact, is a editorial proposal in terms of disposition, but the penalty is reduced... the maximum penalty shall be reduced from the maximum of 140 fine units to 100 fine units. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U378	10. is a proposal by the Minister of the Interior, Sanda Girgen, which would be responsible for breaching the rules on the restriction of prostitution. But since the Cabinet of Ministers discusses the law of the sector, which should regulate all these issues, the Commission did not support (Internex.) and asked the Ministry to resolve the matter by sectoral law. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U379	Members agree. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Do Members want to vote? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Ģürgen! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 45, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U380	11. is the proposal of Member Janis Izalnieks, which introduces new administrative responsibilities for public use of symbols of totalitarian regimes. And on this proposal... After the discussions, 12 were created. - a compromise proposal from the Legal Commission, which was supported by the Commission. And the most significant difference between the partly supported proposal 11 and the Commission proposal 12 is that the Commission's version of the proposal 12 explicitly defines the exceptions in this provision of the law rather than refer to another law. Exceptions to the public symbolization of totalitarian regimes are cases where their purpose is not to praise totalitarian regimes or justify criminal offences or to use them for educational, scientific or artistic purposes. Also, the difference is that the Commission's version isn't this one here... a note about the stylized way because, let's say, the police... The police of the municipality acknowledged that this would be difficult to identify. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “It’s not true!” ) Similarly, the definition of the... which was in the 11th proposal for a public place... This definition was moved to the beginning of the law and we have already voted in favour of this proposal. It's worth noting that this... By including this administrative responsibility in the law, there is no conflict with similar articles in the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals and in the Law “On Meetings, Processions and Pickets”, as these articles of the law are respectively considered as special norms, which regulate these situations directly in public events, meetings, moves and pickets. There's... For example, the Law on the Safety of Public Entertainment and Holidays sets out a procedure of coordination with the... in the present case, no such harmonisation is included for any other public place. In turn, in the law “On Meetings, Processions and Pickets” this special norm provides for a general prohibition, there is no exceptional situation where symbols of two totalitarian regimes, including uniforms, armor, anthems and others, could be used. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the application of paragraph 1 of this Article in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. - the motion of Member Janis Izalnieks - was partly supported by the inclusion of 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U381	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The proposal from Member Janis Izalnieks! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -4, against -69, abstaining -4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U382	So 12 is a compromise proposal made by the Legal Commission, the substance of which I have already outlined. The Commission is asking for support. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U383	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 21, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U384	13. There is a proposal by Members Valeria Agešin and Ivan Ribakov, similar to proposal 1, but in this case the specific chapter on the field of language use proposes to be excluded from the scope of the law. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U385	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the motion from Members Agešin and Ribakov! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U386	14 is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns to exclude Article 11 of the draft law, because since drawing up of the draft law, such obligation is no longer defined in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, as the list of professional groups already includes it. And this list is no longer divided, nor does it distinguish between public and private sector regulation, as it has been so far. Thus, in the view of the Ministry of Justice, such an article is no longer necessary in law. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U388	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which adds a minimum penalty measure to the non-acceptance of documents drawn up in the state language, namely a warning. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U389	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U390	The possibility to submit an application in the official language is not just a simple option. That possibility, and at the same time the obligation, has a constitutional value. This value is enshrined in the Constitution, so the infringement referred to in Article 16 of the draft law does not constitute a mere administrative infringement. It is absolutely obvious in our country to contact the institution, businessman, association or foundation in the language of the country. If someone violates such rights enshrined in the Constitution, he does so with full awareness of the consequences of his actions. The Commission discussed proposal 15. The representative of the State Language Centre pointed out that in 2019 there was only one case of refusal to accept documents issued in the state language and the individual applicant was more interested in receiving a response to a question of interest, but this situation could rather be a sign of fear of the sanctions for refusal or failure to examine documents issued in the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. If the norm has so far worked successfully, it would be logical to maintain the wording of the first reading of Article 16 of the draft law, which only provides for a fine for infringement, but not a warning and a fine. The members of the National Association already considered, at the meeting of the Commission, that failure to accept documents in the state language was a rather serious violation. Warning is too soft... and therefore did not support the proposal of the Minister of Justice Janis Bordens. Members are invited not to support proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U391	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U392	Dear colleagues! I do not want to discuss this article; I want to be legally clean. Legally, this provision of the law is not enforceable, because the fact, why the document is not accepted, is not... it is not objective to never find that the reason for refusal is that the document is written, let us say, in Latvian. Well, what makes it clear that the document, which has been submitted to an institution, is that who... who should accept it, has refused to accept it precisely for this reason. This is an objectively inexplicable fact. It is therefore an empty norm that will not work in real life. I just wanted to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U393	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U394	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the proposal to exclude this provision from the draft law... such a proposal has not been made. Only a proposal has been made to add a warning to the range of penal rules. The Commission calls for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U395	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U396	16. There is a proposal by Member Vita Anda Steel, which, like the previous one on non-use of the state language to the extent necessary for the performance of professional duties, complements the range of penalties with a minimum penalty – a warning. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U397	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U398	Dear colleagues, It is understandable that it is stated at the sitting of the Legal Commission of individual Members that advice is to be given first and only to be punished. That is very understandable. However, as on the issue of non-use of the state language to the extent necessary for the performance of professional duties, the Director of the State Language Centre Maris Baltiņš pointed out in the same sitting: if the regulatory act provides for the use of the state language, the State Language Centre, its inspectors, when seeing a small discrepancy between the level of skills required for the profession and the level of real skills, determine not the penalty, but gives the person time to improve the skills of the state language. This method is much more effective... rather than receiving a warning as provided for in 16. - Mrs. Steel's proposal... which warning will be considered to have already received a penalty and will think that therefore the ball is over, the knowledge of the state language no longer needs to be developed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “We need it!” In 2019, 419 persons in 430 cases were held liable for not using the state language to the extent necessary for the performance of their professional and professional duties. Of these, only 11 repeated infringements have occurred. Thus, the current policy of administrative penalties, combined with motivation of the person, giving time to improve the skills of the state language, has justified itself and the norms do not need to be amended. By issuing an alert now and in the future, it will not be enough for unscrupulous businessmen who do not respect local laws, business and cultural environment in Latvia. In 2019, the Food and Veterinary Service not only found violations of sanitary norms in various companies that used the Pakistani kebbs, but also reported to the State Revenue Service that by accumulation of significant tax debts, companies are regularly eliminated or suspended and new traders with the Pakistani kebb are registered at the same addresses. The observations and findings of the Food and Veterinary Service shall also indicate possible interrelated groupings of organised persons, fictitious officials and deliberate tax evasion. Iluzori, yeah! - illusory hope that such undertakings will, even after forced closure, comply with national rules. On August 29, 2019, the Food and Veterinary Service suspended the activities of “Food Star” Ltd. (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) , on the basis of point 1 of Paragraph 5 of Article 27 of the Law on Food Chain Supervision, that is to say, where due to non-compliance with the requirements of regulatory enactments regulating the food chain, dangerous substances or agents of diseases may enter into production or there is a danger to human and animal health or life. In the past, the company had been suspended by the State Revenue Service. It was excluded from the register of food and veterinary establishments, but it continued to operate. And in view of all the above, naive people hope that the above - mentioned traders, without fear of any violation of different laws, which might even seem more important to them, will fear a warning of noncompliance with national language standards. Such infringements have also occurred in those establishments. The number of comparable companies will only increase and there will not be enough warnings. The Group of the National Association does not support Vita Steel's proposal to apply the warning to the extent necessary for the absence of the use of the state language for the performance of professional and professional duties. I call for the 16th proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U399	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U400	On the other hand, I call for support to the Vita Steel proposal, because I believe that this policy actually leads in a direction that reduces the number of Latvians, not increases. Because (I will explain very simply) there is no scientific evidence, nor any other evidence, that in Latvia at least one Latvian would have forgotten the Latvian language, such evidence does not exist. Latvians forget Latvian because in Latvia commercial activities have actually ended and very many Latvians are forced to go out in exile, where they are born children, go to foreign schools and very often forget Latvian. The result of this policy is that Latvian language does not die in Latvia, it does not die abroad. The other thing. I can’t start loving someone. You can't force yourself to be patriotic and so on. This can only be done by talking in a human form. ( The internexion of the NA fraction.) The third thing. Example: historical example. We remember... We're worried about education, we're worried that we have low education, but at the moment we're one of the best universities in Latvia... Remember, there was a case: we wanted to have a rector in a foreign language, because studies in this university are conducted in a foreign language at all. Then it was a problem: he should not be approved there because he does not understand Latvian. We want international education for our children, but at the same time we do not want to attract leaders at international level. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Indricsone: “What has to do with this?” ) The problem is also proof that all of this policy is, in fact, a restriction on the competitiveness of Latvians. By the way, in Estonia... By the way, in Estonia, the register of companies, as far as I know, can provide documents in different languages, not just Estonian... not only in Estonian. And in Estonia gross domestic product is much higher than in Latvia. In Estonia, the state budget is larger than in Latvia; commercial activity is more active than in Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Then go to Estonia!” Only in a rich country will Latvians want to return. And in a rich country, Latvians will return regardless of the language spoken by Gentiles. Why? Because a person with confidence will never lose his language. Our interests are that more Latvians will be here in Latvia, and the more Latvians will be here in Latvia, the more common Latvian language will be. Strengthening the Latvian language with some enormous sanctions has not proved anything. Latvian has lived for 700 years or more without state language status and has lived even stronger than today when it has state language status. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) No, this does not mean that I am in favour of abolishing the status of a national language or introducing any other national language. But what do I mean? It's all a fake policy. Such a policy actually leads to a reduction in the number of Latvians, not an increase in the Latvian language. And I would like to emphasise that. This policy has worked, and I understand the National Union, and I do not criticise the National Union either. It has been the success story of the National Association to maintain such a policy, but from statistics... We can see clearly that statistical data show that such policy reduces the number of Latvian and the number of Latvian users in Latvia, rather than increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U401	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “On the kebabi!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U402	Of course, it is beneficial to speak some pre-established phrases, but it does not understand the essence. The public can function successfully at a time when there is one language of communication rather than 1000 languages of communication at the same time. I would really like to see Mr Gobzem call an electrician and that electrician would teach you to speak only in a Tuargus language and try to explain to him what he needs to do in the house. Mr Gobzem would then go to the hospital, and there would be a Chinese sitting in the registry and trying to communicate in Chinese. And so on, and so on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “A Chinese man with money or no money?” ) All this would go to absurd. ( Internouncing call.) Therefore, each country has chosen one or, yes, in rare cases, several communication languages that are used to enable society to function. And this proposal is precisely about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U403	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U404	Just a few examples. How many people live in Luxembourg? How many languages are spoken in Luxembourg? How many people live in Switzerland, and how many languages are spoken in Switzerland? In Sweden, by the way, films are shown on television in English so that children learn English from their child’s foot, and do not put their interpretation into Latvian. This is why to be a more educated and competitive society. And what is the result? Sweden this year is... This year, I'm talking, these two months... plus 13 thousand people. In Latvia, the population has decreased by about two thousand during these two months. Why? Because we're objective... Why are people leaving? Because competitiveness is limited. Because people here do not want to live in poverty. They're going where there's wealth. Where is wealth? Where education is, where intelligence is, where people speak languages. And the fact that you or me or someone else will teach Russian, English or French or Spanish or German in addition to Latvian and will also communicate safely with people in other languages - it will not deprive any respectable person of his Latvianness. ( The interdependencies of the fraction. Thank you very much. I don't remember any moment that my Latvian might be deprived of speaking Russian to someone or speaking English to someone. And if we look in Latvia, we don't have to pretend! In Latvia, large foreign companies, including banks, have healthy floors, where Latvians talk to the management in foreign languages on a daily basis, because the management does not know the Latvian language. All e-mail correspondence takes place in foreign languages - Russian and English. That's the reality of life, because it's business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U405	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U406	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I understand that Mr Gobzems believes that migration away from Latvia takes place because there are certain penalties in Latvia (Dep. Gobzem: 'Cause there is poverty here!' )... In Latvia, penalties have been imposed for not using the state language to a sufficient extent or at a level. That's what I understand. I also understand from Mr Gobzem that in Sweden (Dep. A. Gobzem: “You did not understand, Mrs. Muižniece!” ), but the fact that it is precisely at the expense of migration, he does, of course, forget to say that. And we're not talking here about lifting the status. We are not talking about the disappearance of Latvian. We are talking about the penalty policy, which has so far been very successful. Mr Janson has also mentioned the fact that we have very many examples where this provision has already been abused. We know that there is one person in Riga who has already gone to Brussels, who has not deliberately used the language of the country, and, to say, has to be stuck on this. And now we say, what, let's warn! Let's not be punished. There are now 11 repeated cases of this penalty policy... People are learning. Please don't support!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U407	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Aldi, you will be saved!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U408	Ma'am! You didn't understand again. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much. Mrs. Muņi and honourable colleagues! Not because of the penalty policy, I was happy to learn Latvian many years ago. And it wasn't a punishment, why I was happy to listen to the stories in Latvian before falling asleep, when I was still a little child. Not because of the penalty policy, I also studied in Latvian school. It was not because I was afraid or my loved ones were afraid that someone would punish me by working here at work. It was just because I had a very smart family who taught me to love Latvian, to love Latvian without compulsion. And only with love of language can we change this situation, this world, but not with penalties, honourable colleagues! You are heading in the absolutely wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U409	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U410	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to point out that this article does not refer to the languages in which people of Latvia should be taught to communicate. It is about getting services in the state language as well as responsibility if such services cannot be provided. The Commission supported proposal 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U411	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - The proposal by Member Vita Anda Steel! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 50, it's 35, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U412	17. There is a proposal by Member Vita Anda Steel, which adds a warning in the article on express disrespect for the national language, but unlike the previous two articles, in the opinion of the Commission, this is one of the most serious possible administrative offences against the national language. The Commission unanimously rejected this proposal. ( The utterances are: ‘ Vote! ’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U413	Members (Inter-speakers: 'We are voting!') )... Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The proposal by Member Vita Anda Steel! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 44, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U414	18. is the proposal of Member Vita Anda Steel, which provides for the exclusion of responsibility for the transmission of prospectuses, newsletters, catalogues and other material to natural or legal persons, in addition to the national language, in a foreign language, without the request of such persons. In the Commission, this article of the law was discussed in a long way. In the end, the Commission came to a compromise - its proposal, which is Amendment 19. And it was clarified that this infringement only concerns public authorities, local authorities, i.e. public persons, as well as individuals performing a delegated management task. In the first version, the article did not give a clear answer to whether it applies to individuals or only to public persons. And that's why the commission made the 19th proposal, which... subjecting this liability to the condition that this unaddressed consignor sends the pending consignment... where the consignor is a public person or a private person carrying out a delegated management task. The Commission therefore calls for the 18th proposal not to be supported, but for the 19th proposal to be supported. - compromise - the Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U415	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U416	Yes, we really have to debate 18 and 19 at the same time. - Legal commission... We had quite a lot of discussions on this specific revision... as a result of the change. The legal commission's proposal was supported. I'll tell you what it's about. If you have a postcard in the house, by opening it, you receive various types of ads, information, booklets, including from state and municipal authorities. This Article shall not affect the private field. But if you receive information from “Riga House Manager”, Daugavpils City Council, then to get it even in a foreign language, you have to ask for it. It's not that you automatically fall into two languages all over the country... municipalities and public administration... or in three languages. We also discussed the fact that it is an economy of public money, that you do not duplicate all information simply because you have fallen into it. And I repeat: here we are talking only about state power... on state and municipal capital companies, of course. I do not know how you are; I have neighbours who speak Russian but manage Latvian well. They have told me many times: they are insulted by the fact that they are being translated into the fact that, let's say, hot water will be cut off from 1 to 3 March. They feel offended that someone has imagined that they do not understand simple texts. And another situation that is very good at describing the situation. There was the head of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau, Strelčenok, and he had come up with anti-corruption posters. And then the slogan he printed on the posters was “Stop!” . Then he figured that he would print them in two languages and glue them, making their last “p” on “stop” into Russian “p”. It is the head of a public authority. Well, it's not a theory. Thanks to the State Language Centre - these posters were stopped in time, although they were already printed - at least some of them. Well, here's this article about the fact that if someone asks for information in a second language, it will be delivered from the municipality. The word “stop” or someone else will be printed and given. But without a request... I also do not understand why there are so many different information in my mailbox. And by the way, speaking with “Development/About!” ... there is a warning. So that for the first time the housekeeper, the heat... or what it would be, warn you that you should not be sent without a person asking for it. I call on you not to support the proposal - as did Member Vita Anda Steel in the Commission, 18 - and to support the 19th proposal of the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U417	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U418	I will support Mrs Steel's proposal. Let me explain why this pick-up is again a false pick-up. I'll start with the President of Latvia. What is the name of our President's website? President.lv Is it in Latvian? It's in Latvian - president.lv? I'm entering this website - how many languages has the President's institution, the President's Registry, written the text there? In several, right? So I read this rule – an institution of a public person must be punished if they express any material more than in Latvian. The President's website contains information in several languages. The Saeima. I open the Saeima website, how many languages is information on the Saeima website? Three. Three languages. The Saeima is an institution of a public person? And that's it. So it is to be punished for distributing the material in this way. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Interdependence of the trader.) Next, what we look at. A private person in the performance of a delegated management task. For example, a state hires a lawyer in an international procedure, and that lawyer writes to a lawyer in another state. He is allowed to write only in Latvian, he cannot write in English, because he fulfils the task delegated by the public administration to defend the Republic of Latvia. So he must be punished, he must not communicate with his colleagues somewhere else. ( Internouncing call.) All state officials send Christmas cards to their foreign colleagues, including there “Happy New Year”, “Merry Christmas” and similar. They must be punished because in this particular case it is stated that ‘the transmission of other material’. The greeting card is also another material. So who will then be the evaluator - who is the material that is not that material? The starting point is our legal opinion giant Juta Strike in the Legal Commission. She says the starting point is that she doesn't like to come in other languages. I'm sorry, well, if a person has such problems that he has some material in other languages, then I'll give you an example. I don't understand why Juta Strike doesn't worry about throwing Maxim's advertising into Russian because it doesn't regulate this. Maxima advertising in Russian will be allowed to be in the mailbox, if? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike’s intermediate call.) And that's it. But she doesn't like having a mailbox. I would also like to say that those Members who are leading this proposal should get into the 21st century at all. In the 21st century, letters are also sent electronically on the Internet. Very often, the majority of them are electronically on the Internet, not only cast into a mailbox in Ķengaraga or Ziepniekkalns. On the Internet... Let us imagine the Saeima. Members of the Saeima shall enter a statement on the Internet in several languages. He is also a representative of a public person by his nature, a representative of the Saeima. He's entering a Facebook or a Twitter... The Minister of Foreign Affairs shall record or the Prime Minister shall record the greetings to the Estonian Parliament at the national holidays. Clearly, this is also a notification sent to an unknown group of persons. That's what it's about... that provision must be punished. It's absolutely absurd what you're doing! Once again, I repeat. Once again, Latvianity is not threatened by what materials you receive. And I recommend that all Latvians learn as many languages as possible, because this only contributes to our competitiveness. A person who knows only Latvian is objectively less competitive than someone who knows several languages. And no one in life died of having a tract or a greeting in another language coming to him. It is a sign of intelligence - to assess it, not as in this case - that is some threat to the country. People are not threatened with self - control when someone else speaks another language. And I would remind you of pre-war Latvia - pre-war Latvia could also speak another language from this tribunal in Latvia, and it was only a matter of self-esteem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U419	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U420	I wish we had such a debate ever about how to develop our economy in the country! I think we could target producers of vacuum cleaners. For example, I'm offended that I have to take such a pack out of the box and be distinguished to find Latvian. I'm offended. Even more offend me that there are so small letters that you have to put glasses and remember that I don't have 30 anymore. Vulnerable! Until the occupation of Latvia in this house, parliament, members of the Saeima were free to speak German and Russian. That was also done. All they had to do (for those who did) was to submit the text of their speech in Latvian within 24 hours, I think, in order to appear on the verbatim report. If he didn't do it, he was recorded on the vernacular that he had spoken, but what he didn't know. And such places, by the way, are, quite a lot of empty places. It didn't touch anyone. I think if a person lives in a country for a long time... whether it is in Latvia or France or in any other country... if you live in our country for a long time, you may have been born in our country, but you do not know the Latvian language, the only thing he may hurt is yourself, but no one else. I call on you perhaps to really think about how to develop the country together, not what promotional booklets, and in what languages we will get from vacuum cleaners producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U421	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U422	There are different rhetorics. You can, of course, put yourself in front of you narcisses and speak, beautifully speaking. Speak, and many listen. But if we look at this proposal legally, three key words are here - without a person's request. And neither the President's Chancellery nor the Saeima will send any material without the request of a person. And indeed even in this case, if the person requests, the municipality can also send this information in a foreign language. It is only a matter of knowingly disregarding language standards, which is also the subject of this criminality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U423	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U424	The national association, I want to turn to you - and especially to you. Your policy for the last 30 years has actually led Latvia to where it is. It is a divided, poor country from which people flee. And why is that? Because your policy is a policy of fear, it is not a policy of raising self-esteem that creates the ability not to be afraid.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U425	Mr Gobzem, please turn to proposal 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U426	I am focused on the proposal. I am focused on the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U427	Talk about proposal 18, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U428	Mrs Mourniece, listen to the end, then you too will understand what I am talking about.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U429	‘Delete the first paragraph of Article 19 of the draft law.’ Please speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U430	Listen to the end! You will understand what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U431	Keep going, but on the subject. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Proposal - What?” ) Keep going.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U432	So your policy is a policy of fear, not a policy of self-esteem. And the policy of self-esteem is not to sow fear in people, but to say: “We simply do not have to be afraid of others. We need to be more educated. We need to be more capable. We need to be smarter." ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) And for that very reason, there is no problem if the President speaks in several languages and sends the relevant documents, if the Saeima speaks in many languages, if the state institutions or municipal institutions communicate. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) In fact, it would even be very good if the Register of Enterprises adopted documents in a foreign language so that we have more companies coming (interface.) so that we come companies so that we business develops. ( Internouncing call.) And by the end. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “You can’t finish. You will never end.” ) When people want to be like the wise, not like the Neighbours. , then our country will begin to develop. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Very good! Thank you. Goodbye!” ) And that is why I call on the entire Latvian community (Dep. A. Neighbours: Talk about the proposal! )... I call on the entire Latvian community not to be afraid of other languages. No one has ever taken away or will take away the Latvian for you. Do not be afraid, learn a foreign language. Learn English, Russian, German, French - no matter. But do not be afraid as the National Association requires you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U433	Colleagues! Further to the debate on the subject (Dep. A. Neighbours: “We can debate in English next!” ) Proposal 18 after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to the Secretary of the Saeima for the results of registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U434	Okay. Good afternoon, honourable Members! Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Raivis Dzintars, Marija Golubeva, Inese Ikstena, Inese Lībiņa-Egne, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Lubova Švecova... Okay... Vita Anda Steel and Evita Zālīte-Gross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U435	Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U436	Dear colleagues, Let's keep working after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Law on Administrative Penalty Offences in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”. We are following the debate on proposal 18. Name to Member Armand Kraus. ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Name of Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U437	Dear colleagues, I wanted to remind you of one story that you may not have heard about. Five years ago Oncological Patients Support Society “Live Tree” implemented the project by informing Latvians about breast cancer prevention and calling for screening. And initially this society planned to publish this information, which was then sent to people at their addresses, both in Latvian and Russian. They were advised by the European Commission... the institutions that financed the project. It was prohibited by the national language centre. And there were some articles about it. In a wonderful way, an article appeared in Latvian media – “Daily”. And the leader of the society claimed that the response actually dropped rather significantly because the target group is still women above 50 and it is in this group that there are most people who don't speak Latvian perfectly. The texts are complex enough, there is a lot of terminology, and therefore the protection of the country was provided less than for those who have the Latvian language as their mother tongue or those who speak Latvian perfectly. I had to talk to some people from the European Commission about this situation afterwards. To put it mildly, they were confused, because the consistent line of the European Commission, not to mention other international organisations, is that the state has a duty to inform its citizens about all serious matters in all minority languages. It is not about protecting the national language; it is simply respecting linguistic diversity, which is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. It's really hard for me to understand your emotions. Is any information in the national language refused? Do you really read everything you throw into your mailboxes, all the ads? What makes it difficult for you to simply not read what you don't want to read? This is totally different. In my view, this is absolutely normal, the customer is always right. When a person comes to me as a Member, I always use the language that is more convenient for that person, because the client is a taxpayer and we are those who serve them. And in general, I really like this tactic. I know one person about that... who doesn't like it, and so everyone doesn't like it. Well, I'm sorry, the example is not an argument. Trust me. However, respect is needed by anyone. Respect for his person and against his identity, against his mother tongue. Of course, some Russian colleagues are Putin's language, and that's it. But there are many loyal people in Latvia who work fairly here, pay taxes, speak the state language in all cases where the law so provides, and discharge our budget. And for them too, respect for their mother tongue is important. And then you wonder why most Russian-speaking people vote in favour of the “Conciliation”. It is precisely because we respect these people and respect diversity. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues! I understand that what I'm telling you now sounds something, well, quite strange. You are not used to such a question, you are used to being the oldest brother. And I have known this attitude very well since the Soviet times. You do not see yourself behave in the same way as the same Russian immigrants in Soviet times behaved in the same way as you are now blaming. Are we the same Soviet Union, but the oldest brother is different? Have we really changed the concept and live in a country where everyone has the same respect, regardless of which language he has his mother tongue? So, to be honest, I am ashamed to listen to this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U438	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U439	Dear President, Honourable Members! I looked at the library in 1929 and said that the contents of the speeches in German or Russian should only be printed in Latvian. So in writing. Already in 1929, I realized that the country that became independent was forced to do something to strengthen its language. Now... What's that... What is the objection against? Here we are not talking about not talking in the cafe or communicating with each other in any language. It's not forbidden, though. Here is the basic demand for respect for the country in which we live. So even if the country's citizens are sent out prospectuses, newsletters, catalogues, it is logical that they are in the national language. And now the speakers come and pretend that these catalogues appear as if they come in different languages. Well, they don't come in French! So what are we pretending to be? They don't come in German. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: ‘ Fight! ’ ) They come in Russian. So these are the consequences of the Soviet Russification policy, which is going on. And Latvian is not a huge language, it must be defended in any way. And if France introduces a whole series of administrative penalties for the misuse of the language that we are talking about, say, over 60 million in France and in the world, say, over a hundred million, why does France believe that the French language should be protected and that special laws should be adopted to protect it? And why do we pretend in small Latvia that catalogues here, understand, in Hindu, will come in Hebrew? Well, they come only in Russian. So clear and clear: some administrative responsibility is due to continue the russification policy as such. And if the Saeima had already decided in 1929, and in 1932, before the Ulmanis coup, it was decided that speeches could no longer be said... So why should we introduce any other policy? This is also in contradiction with the cultural and historical context, as Latvian and German were used in the Baltic provinces, and universities were working in German. But another thing that surprised me. I have been twice at the Economic Forum of Krinica (a city in Poland). It's international. It was last year 29, this year it will be 30. - the anniversary forum. I was surprised that an English-speaking foreign minister in his country never speaks English. He spoke Polish, and the interpreters were available. The President of the Central Bank speaks Polyski in his country. We still have the fashion to talk, pretend in every way that we, let's say how a small country is forced to speak different languages and... and not to show respect. So here I think there's no insult to minorities. If there are several tens or perhaps even hundreds of minorities, then it is not a problem - to speak different languages. But, as I said, this dispute started for us already on the Education Law, on kindergartens. If we want children in kindergartens to socialize in the country where they live, they speak Latvian. At home, they can learn everything and talk, and so do these catalogues. And the last one. Dear Colleagues, How do you think the old people who were in Siberia who were tortured by Czechs in Russian, who were hit by guards? ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) And they get notifications in Russian... I don't know why. Neither German nor English. They come in Latvian and Russian. Isn't that personal insult? It's not an insult to old people? I therefore call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U440	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U441	Yeah, colleagues. I understand it's an afternoon, and I see everyone doing something, including sittings on the phone, watching. However, I would like to draw your attention to this issue. It seems to me that this is more about how we impose penalties. Use of the state language... In this case, there is an immediate fine, not a warning or a warning. If we go on that principle, then we should also have administrative penalties in all other areas... immediately impose a fine, but rule out the warning as such. I think it is not logical that we look at some irregularities through the fingers, some - very strongly. We can do the same as Singapore. Today we approved a cooperation agreement with Singapore. Well, then we're looking at what we're doing there. Crossing of the street into an unauthorised place - penalty of EUR 200 or more. Well, it's okay! Then we are imposing very strict penalties in all areas, both for environmental offences and for various other areas, as in this case! What I want to say is that I believe that in this case, too, there can be a warning at first. It seems to me that this is wrong - to watch so hard at once. We must bear in mind that there is one another with regard to the national language. Various state institutions, such as customs, are launching competitions for posts for citizens of the Republic of Latvia, and one of the requirements of the post is that you need to know a foreign language – English, Russian. Excuse me, are you in the French customs? Franz, how much do they speak English? Perhaps someone who checks you will be able to say a few words in English. But when you get into customs, where you have to pay the cargo, the French speak French. I can't imagine asking a Frenchman in France, a French citizen, to say, Russian, English or whatever language, because he claims to be in customs office. Latvia and Latvia. We look beyond the pointless things that are happening now! I believe that this is discrimination against Latvian citizens, that citizens of the Republic of Latvia, especially the younger generation, in which, by the way, not everyone can speak Russian - that they are required to have knowledge of Russian language when applying for a post. Such a speech of warning or punishment - that is, I believe, such hypocrisy until we have resolved everything in general.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U442	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U443	Yes, there is a problem. Here, colleagues have already debated this proposal in various respects. In my opinion, it is also a welcome proposal. Let me explain why I think so. Irrespective of the way we will vote today, there is still a third reading, and I very much hope that the Commission is still talking about these issues for a third reading on the substance. In terms of public administration, how different institutions communicate with the population. Undoubtedly, it is rather regrettable that Latvia has a whole range of residents who have not learned the language of the country either. But in practical life, its problem in passing the message is less harmful to the person who does not receive the message, but more harmful to the institution who is unable to pass on to that person some of its message, its decision, some call for action. If we are talking about apartment houses, then it is true that this problem is unfortunately encountered quite regularly by housekeepers. Its problems arise to all other residents only because someone has not understood something, has not heard something. I would call for this subject to be discussed very carefully by the Legal Commission, because the victim in the end will not be the citizen who will now receive these materials in Latvian and perhaps will not understand anything; the victims will be those who will try to pass on this message to him... And they won't understand it, there's that problem...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U444	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U445	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! In my opinion, the fundamental mistake of this debate is that communication is mixed as propaganda and distribution of certain ideologies and the need to disseminate information. If we believe that the state and the municipality communicate with their citizens only for the purpose of political campaign, then, of course, when the elections are approaching, this is a very topical issue. But if we look at the hottest news today, i.e. news about the prevalence of the coronavirus, and if we understand that people who are not citizens of Latvia but who are residents of other countries with residence permits live in a municipality, for example, here in Riga... There are many people living here who have emigrated from Russia and who have not yet learned Latvian to such a degree as to understand things that could really endanger their life and safety and the safety of their children and children. Could you not imagine, in terms of security, any statement that must be received and, above all, understood by all the people who are on the territory of our country, regardless of the reasons? There is a science - the theory of communication, where a chain is described, as the message is transmitted from communication to recipient. And there's a communicator in the middle, a communication channel, and along the way there's an information message encoding, so the message's interpretation in visual images or in a certain language, and there's decoding at the end. This means that the information which has been encoded must be encoded, so it must be understood. And that's what it's about. If this information is really essential and relates in particular to the life and safety of a particular person, it must be understandable. And there's no ideology here. And all the talk that concerns ideology, please leave the pre-election for campaigns! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U446	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U447	Dear colleagues, Today, we speak very hot and excitingly not about the Latvian language, its defence, protection, development, but about penalties. Warning - it's good or bad... We have heard a lot of things here, we have said a lot, but I think the main problem if we talk about Latvian is that in our country we work very weakly in the field of education related to learning Latvian for all people - all people! - and it can be based not on penalties, but only on goodness. People have a wide variety of abilities, including in terms of language. My father, who lived all his life in Latvia, was born in Estonia. He tried very hard to learn the language, but he knew “the blindness” on it. He didn't teach, he really wanted to, but he didn't learn to do it, it was his problem. But that was his problem. Today, we want to have only one language in the country at any cost, and the main tool here, from the point of view of the debate, is, however, the punishment. This is not and never will be the case in any country. Latvia is no exception. We are not talking about English or French, but let us call things the right words! - Talks only about Russian. It seems to me that it is not particularly thoughtful and not particularly far-sighted. Because now, following the discussion initiated by the National Association, it would probably be good to re-establish the special task of the Minister for Community Integration Secretariat or to establish a Ministry for Integration, to designate it as a Ministry for Disintegration of Society and to instruct one of the representatives of the National Association to chair it. Indeed, there would be success and success, because these seeds fall into the soil, which Mr Gobzem spoke a lot about today. Not without justification. Because if people are not satisfied with economic policy, with social affairs, it really makes much more to think about, first and foremost, the leaders of the people who are here in this hall. We are talking about penalties. Will this be a success? Will this bring positive results? I have great doubts. Once again, I would like to repeat: you can build a language policy only on the basis of goodness, not by referring to the fact that a neighbor did not like that the word “stop” was Russian rather than Latin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U448	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U449	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to touch on such a sensitive issue simply in functional terms... on the functional side. This week, the Strategic Communication Commission of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption was visited by Māra Sīmane, the expert of the Centre for the Coordination of the Peresors, who is chairing the working group on communication issues. These issues include communication between the state and its population in crisis situations, which means that one of the aspects of communication is addressing people who have no Latvian language. This means that even our government is looking at the opportunity to speak to people in a language that they understand. That is why I propose that you act responsibly and approve the proposal by your Member, the steel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U450	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U451	Hello, colleagues! I am pleased that we have had a debate on this proposal, because so far, I allow many people, a certain group of people, have been insulted by the fact that they are spoken in a language other than their own. The debate on this issue is important, so we should not narrow it down and do it only in some area of ours, but rather extend it. This provision should certainly be supported and explained to people not only that such a provision exists, but also what to do and what to do if they find such a violation. In my opinion, in this way we would promote not only the use of the state language and integration of society in Latvia, but also finally go beyond anything... How do I tell you better? Let us say to such undervalue complexes that we, Latvia, are small and that we are few. In fact, we can be proud that we have our own country and we are strong and that we have fought our place in the world. And our language could not only strengthen in Latvia, but go even more widely. I ask you to support the continuation of this provision and the possibility for citizens to report such infringements, namely the sending of prospectuses, booklets and similar material in a language other than their own. In particular, if they are not in the official language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U452	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U453	Everything is clear to you with your position. Forever. The more duality is being treasured, the better it is. The more they will be able to distribute various materials in Russian about municipal funds, the better they are. Everything's logical. Gobzem's arguments... Well, I don't know, there's perhaps to ask Urbanovich if he's already written an application for accession. ( Interface: “There is not yet! ”) ) I agree perfectly together. But the main criticism in this case should not even be to the SPIRIT, who naturally makes such proposals, but to Mrs Steel. Why do such proposals come? Why do such proposals come in this pre-election period? Why Development/About! are ready to take part in these votes together with SAVE, reducing the role of the Latvian language? And here's the really required explanations from Mr. Stakis, whether he feels adequate. — Dep. V. Agešins: “It’s not a matter of truth! Let them talk about the proposal!” )... whether it seems appropriate to submit proposals that only a warning applies to expressing disrespect for the national language. And that in this case there is an opportunity to distribute notices about municipal money, unaddressed items not in the state language.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U454	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Colleagues, I recall the debate on proposal 18. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You have to prove this to Dombrava!” ; intersentence from the fraction DECLARES: ‘Dombrav?’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U455	Thank you. I understand Latvian, I can read what the proposal is about. Thank you for your reminder. Madam steel proposal... Thank you to her for this proposal. It is a pity that she cannot support it today. It is also regrettable that she was not in the Legal Commission to be able to support this proposal. In short, I will repeat it again. It was really a big discussion about the fact that there were people who had complained to the State Language Centre that they received different types of items in two languages in mailboxes. It is not at this time that they receive consignments only in a foreign language; there is a separate penalty for this, but that they are therefore receiving both in Latvian and in a foreign language. And, of course, it's not even about having a foreign language... In that case, I understand that by law the requirements must also be in smaller letters, there must be a smaller font to show respect for the national language. But even if all these requirements are met, a person does not feel offended and does not want to receive such prospectuses, booklets, or other material. Of course, there is an opportunity to refuse at all any kind of shipment that is not addressed... from non-addressed consignments. Everyone has this type of option by placing an appropriate sticker on their mailbox. If this is not respected, it is, of course, a completely different issue; then it is probably not the sender... has not been observed. However, if we are talking about this proposal... So Mrs. Steel wants no punishment for sending people out different materials. And in this case... I understand, of course, that the next proposal, the Legal Commission proposal, softens this provision, but I call for support for Mrs. Steel's proposal because... also for purely practical reasons. Because I also did not get the answer to the question: how will any authority that will send different types of items be able to count and maintain a specific database with those customers who have specifically applied to receive consignments in parallel in a foreign language? That will be, colleagues, the purest nightmare for those who send out these items, as well as for those who will control the execution of this article. Yeah... Imagine the situation! There must be a very serious application, a serious database. The man is applying today for the items, but tomorrow he is thinking about them. And then when he receives this shipment, he runs to the State Language Center and says: “Behold, see! I want you to punish this sender!” There is no fictional system in which you intend to comply with these rules. It is not really the whole thing, but this rule is more declaratory. Yes, we will now turn to ejecting water off messages in two languages in mailboxes. Colleagues, what does the Saeima do at all? What is the Saeima doing?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U456	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U457	I am interested in what will then be the next step if we accept this proposal. Will we continue to use two languages, such as road signs or street signs? Let's say, street inscriptions will be in two languages? Let's go back, so in Soviet times? Well, that's out of criticism, I think! If we stay with this and so go further, then maybe at all... We refuse to speak Latvian at all and only in a foreign language will you be able to send notifications? And so on. — Dep. A. Interdependence of Geodans.) ... Well, I think that is totally unacceptable, there is no internationalism here. We live in Latvia, and such strict regulation must be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U458	The name to Member Juta Strike for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U459	I am also referring to the Development/Par! Group. . And I call on every Member to look into the carefully drafted proposal, which was supported by a majority of the Commission. It is, in fact, very, very democratic. (Applause) You indicate that you want to receive information in Russian or Chinese or Ukrainian, and you will receive it in that language. It protects people from being forced into a foreign language. And this is only about state and local authorities. And now let's imagine... And I know people like that. My microdistrict is home to Ukrainian citizens or Latvian citizens who are Ukrainians. And they receive regular information from Latvian state and local authorities in Russian. What should Ukrainians think about the Latvian authorities if they send them information in basically the language of the country with which they war? ( Internoint.) Thank you very much. Let us also look democratically at the development of the country. We have different communities. And now a local authority will come up with a plan to inform all the languages in which those living in Riga speak... in all that is, without request. Then in fact these apartment bills, statements about water shutdown will come like that... will be like the crazy instructions for televisions where you can't find your mother tongue anymore, which should be distinguished in order to find what you need. ( The box “Who Is Home? ”) ) So that we give... Dear colleagues from Development/About! We give people the opportunity to choose which language they want, not to send in forced translations, in a language other than the language of the country. And let's remember one more thing: all this costs! Printing costs, translation costs (Dep. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) - Typography, postmen... ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) We remember very well... (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U460	The debate is over. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U461	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, again! The debate has, of course, gone a little bit different from the original one. Reflecting on what Mrs Stepanenko said... about that again... that in Latvia, once again, Latvians have an option to refuse to receive such items that do not satisfy them - I think that absolutely no criticism is tolerated because the proposal... Next... The part of the article that is on the table, which Mrs steel proposes to exclude from the law, means that a person who feels the need to be notified in another language will also receive it. But there was a question asked by Mr. Dombrava, why “Development/About!” he does. Probably because they're false fighters for ecology, because we need all the printed... paperwork isn't a lot of languages for everyone. That is the answer! ( Interface: “For the trees! ”) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U462	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U463	I would like to oppose Mr Butan and Mrs Strike. Mr. Butane, I understand that in Soviet times you were a little child and therefore you don't remember... I could reassure you: in Soviet times there was much in both languages. ( Interface: ‘ Bad! ’) ) And I know Latvian only because journalists in Soviet times could only learn Latvian in Latvian at the University of Latvia. And to Mrs Strike, I would like to ask Mr Adamovich, in which language he spoke yesterday to the Head of the Ukrainian delegation. And maybe you will try to remember in what language you also spoke to Ukrainian state representatives here at the Saeima House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U464	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U465	Dear colleagues, It will not be enough for patriotism alone to speak. With the language alone and with the fight for Latvian and another foreign language, you will not be such a great patriot, because today we in the Saeima had a vote in favour of abolishing the OIC, now, the next vote (Dep. A. Muižniece: “Do not lie! It wasn’t!” ), in which we managed to receive some support, and today, after a few minutes, we will also be waiting for the vote on the referral to the commissions. In my opinion, patriotism is not just a fight for the fact that any leaf of water cut off is only in Latvian. It's about your people, all the people of Latvia, not to feel cheated, as they feel right now. And the fight for patriotism is for you to vote today according to what the people of Latvia want. And I think they have made it very clear that the OIC is a fraud that must be abolished. But you, the UKP, in order not to vote in favour of the abolition of the OIC, are debating today's hot water off statements in two languages. That's your level. Thank you. ( The Hall is full of people.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U466	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U467	Dear colleagues, I just, a half an hour and a half ago, with some colleagues... We've just come from ( Depp. A. Neighbours: “Where does it come from?” )... from the OECD... There is such a place (Interface: “Italy!” )... Well, Milan, of course. Well, what? From Milan. From Milan (Corporate: “From Milan! From Milan, ha-ha-ha!’ ), where we had discussed issues such as economic development, artificial intelligence, energy and so on with several national parliamentarians in three days, and then we come here and... What are you doing here at all? What are the discussions about? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaistov: “You’re already discussing it!” ) You, colleagues... There's no surprise at why we're where we're, if you're here... You are already working on it for an hour - you are discussing in which language you can send notifications that there will be no hot water today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Well, yes, that’s a job! Which language is available, Vjačeslav?’ ) Da at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U468	The name is Sandy Riekstin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “Now we listen carefully!” Thank you. (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U469	Colleagues! What are we all debating here at this moment? I'll remind you. ( Milestones.) That's it! The part of the article to which the proposal relates reads as follows: ‘The transmission of a prospectus, newsletter, catalogue and other material to natural or legal persons, in addition to the national language, shall also be subject, in a foreign language, to a warning or to a fine in the case of natural persons from seven to twenty-eight fine units and in the case of legal persons from twenty-eight to two hundred fine units.’ You're talking about the waters of the warm, and you know what else! And that's why I just got up in the quarry that you mentioned the warm water. I have the happiness of living in China. And when the water's shut down there, there's a note on the entrance door. It is written in Russian that you will have water shut down from this time, and then empty spaces are left where you enter with your hand, from how many to how many, because they cannot yet understand at that time. And then it is the same written in Latvian at the bottom. And every time it happens, where the Russian text is, where it is written, but where it is in Latvian - terrible Latvian! - There's no time. ( Interface: “Discrimination! ”) ) If we are already talking about hot water, what is the purpose of this declaration? Why? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U470	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Watch out! There will be a joke!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U471	Vjačeslav, I already understand that you've just come and get involved in the middle of the conversation, and you don't know what we're talking about. We save the open-air museum! ( Internouncing call.) From the very beginning, we saved the open-air museum. Here, in the audience, there are many unconvinced Latvians. They feel that if everything in Latvian is not available, there will simply be an end to the Latvian language. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: ‘ Yes! I think so too!” ) You understand... Proposal No 18 I would advise you to vote in favour because Vita Anda Steel has put forward a good proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U472	I closed the debate. So on behalf of the commission for 18? ( Intercretion: ‘ All right, let’s vote in favour! ’) Martyn, you're insane!' ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U473	Yes, on behalf of the commission. His Members... A number of unclear issues concerning this scope of the law, both before the break and after the break, could be felt in the speeches of Members. First. The proposal to rule out this part of the law by Member Vita Anda Steel... It is not a proposal from Members of the Saeima, it is not a proposal from the National Alliance - to introduce this article; it is a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, it is from them. What the Legal Commission's proposal is, next, 19, is actually also the Court (Interdependence.) ... Proposal drawn up by the Ministry of Justice. These proposals must be discussed together because they are about the same thing being excluded, or rewording, part of the article. Secondly. Here, in this article, it is not about public information, various notes or... which is attached... in a public space. This is only the case for items addressed to a particular person, whether in an e-mail or in a mailbox or in other individualised items. This does not apply to public... various public communications. So do you. — Insight. ... It's like... Was (Interior call.) ... No, I will explain to Members what this article is talking about and not talking about. ( Interface: “All things are clear! ” Medicines cause noise.) Members also expressed concerns that information of a medical nature or safety information could not be communicated. This article does not talk about it, it is (Minimum: “How is it not?” )... The State Language Law establishes exceptional situations where state administration and capital companies can communicate with residents in other languages, that is, including issues about medicine, about safety. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.) In the Cabinet Regulations these exceptions (Sitting Manager knocks down with hammer.) Definitely. ( Interface: ‘ Airports and taxis! ’ ) Next. One more...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U474	The rapporteur was on behalf of the Commission. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U475	That's right. Another uncertainty is about shipments, such as embassies or parliamentary officials from other countries. This article does not regulate diplomatic relations, this article regulates communication between public institutions, capital companies, individual communication, with Latvian citizens, not with embassies or parliamentary officials of other countries, citizens and so on. ( Milestones.) It is also important to mention that the article refers to this reference to a person's request. If a person is, let us say, noted in the municipality that she wants to receive the relevant information, for example, in Russian, then it is possible and it complies with this norm. This consignment will then be in line with the person’s request. There's no doubt about it here. The concerns expressed by Members at the meeting of the Legal Commission that led to the creation of the 19th - The legal commission's proposal... I mean, there's a fear that... Unlike private companies that send various types of advertising notices, in the case of public institutions, capital companies have concerns about the waste of financial resources, because most people in Latvia understand the state language. Send to These People... double translate all information into other languages, most often Russian, - it is public funds (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “But they translate once for one person!” ) or wastage of municipal funds. ( Internouncing call.) This does not apply to private companies. ( Internouncing call.) I therefore reported on behalf of the Commission that the Commission did not support 18. - The proposal of Member Vita Anda Steel - but created 19. - The legal commission's proposal, that is, the compromise proposal. Please vote in favour of proposal 18. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: 'We vote 'no'!' ) The Commission did not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U476	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - The proposal by Member Vita Anda Steel! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U477	19. There is a proposal from the Legal Commission, which I have already explained to a large extent. The main difference from the wording of the first reading is that here, in the article, it is clearly stated that this applies only to public authorities, public authorities' capital companies and individuals performing these delegated management tasks. The Commission supported its proposal. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U478	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 51, it's 26, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U479	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. At first reading, this penalty for not using the state language in proceedings was imposed only on legal persons, but there are situations where natural persons also have an obligation to conduct proceedings in the state language. That is why the article's sanction part has also been supplemented by a penalty measure for individuals who are significantly lower than for legal persons. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U480	Please call me!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U481	The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U482	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U483	All future proposals relate to institutions that have competence for the application of the Articles examined above. 21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a technical proposal from the Legal Office specifying the title of the section. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U484	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U485	22. - also a technical proposal from the Legal Office specifying the title of the article in accordance with the previous principles.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U487	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which specifies the functions of the State Police, the municipal police, as well as the administrative commission or sub-commission of the municipality in the situations referred to in Section 3 of this Law (on failure to provide information to the various This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U489	24. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which concerns this infringement - the failure to provide information to the Authority. This proposal complements this list with another body that will be able to punish this type of infringement against itself, that is to say, the management of nature conservation. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U491	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce, which also complements the management of nature protection... with regard to the application of an Article on non-compliance with the legitimate requirements of an official. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U492	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U493	26. - a proposal from the Legal Commission, which shall also supplement this Article by the words "the municipal transport control service". So, for failing to comply with the legitimate demands of an official... it will also be subject to control by the local transport control service. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U495	27. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is related to the previous... proposals previously supported and addresses the competence of the State Police and Municipal Police to detect violations referred to in Articles 8, 9, 10 and 11. This proposal has been partly supported by the inclusion of 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U496	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U497	28. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is also complementary to this... actually a technical proposal for the title of the article. The Commission is supported but included in 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U498	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U499	29. - The proposal of the Legal Commission, which, in the light of the proposals currently supported, is accompanied by articles which will be the responsibility of the State Police and the municipal police. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U501	30. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen, which is linked to a proposal that has not been approved in the past. The Commission was not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: “Technical, I have technical... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U502	Relating to unsupported before, so it cannot be put to the vote. It cannot therefore be put to the vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: ‘... therefore change numbering!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U503	Not put to the vote. 31. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, which is also technical and related to previously supported proposals for the addition of the numbering of articles. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) We cannot vote because we will then have disagreements in the law. ( Intercretion: “Vote! It's put to the vote!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U504	Proposal 31 is put to the vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 21, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U505	32. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which would transfer competence on the language of documents in a particular field, namely competence on the information contained in the safety data sheets of chemicals and mixtures, from the State Language Centre to the State Environment Service. However, since this practice is also in other sectors... The National Language Centre looks at various sectors... documents drawn up in different sectors, whether they correspond to the state language, and the State Language Centre always communicates and consults the relevant sectoral supervisory authority in such cases. Because it's about the state language... for breaches of these documents, this proposal was not supported by the Commission in order not to disrupt the common system.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U506	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U507	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U508	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Law on Administrative Penalty Offences in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U509	27 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U510	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 March this year. Dear colleagues, Members Latkovskis, Pavļuts, Strīķe, Dombrava and Kaimiņš ask for a break to be announced at the sitting on 27 February following examination of item 25 by 9 a.m. on 5 March of this year. Mr. Gobzem, you'll talk... Is that so? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “The Against!” ) “ Against” has applied to speak... So "no" has applied to speak to Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U511	Dear Latvian society! In order for you to understand why Latkovsky and the rest of Unity require a break - they demand a break for the reason that the draft law on the abolition of OIC is not being examined today. It is very interesting that the biggest bidder for the cancellation of the OIC in the pre-election period, Kaimiņš, has also requested this break. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “It’s interesting!” ) A Unity requires such a break to the OIC for a period of at least 10 years. Over these 10 years, Latvia has been abandoned by hundreds of thousands of people because of its policies of Unity, because they require a break at all times so that they can continue to have their lives in order to be able to give their sponsors... supplement the sponsor pocket with OIC payments. And now they're calling for a break again. That's why I'm against this break, because it's enough! This interruption has since Karin introduced the OIC. I call on you to vote in favour of not being interrupted, and I call for all OIC coverrs to be illuminated at the forefront of the neighbourhood. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “I introduced OIK! It's me!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U512	Ms Juta Strīķe, Member of the European Parliament, applies to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U513	You know, as a lawyer, I'm clearly aware that all the documents before reading... Before the vote or any other action is to be taken, it must be understood. This document, of course, has a great fiscal impact. It takes time. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Sounds like noise. Thank you very much. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) If someone here is ready to vote for the slogans and not to sign what they are given by saying “her! ” and by showing the finger where the signature should be applied, so that these people do so. ( Internouncing call.) That is why we asked from the outset to postpone it to the next sitting of the Saeima to understand what to vote on and what to do with it. I think that is obvious. Do you also sign the will without reading? Do you also sign rental agreements without reading? Are you all ready? You're already a hundred lawyers! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Sounds like noise. Depp. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call: “You don’t have to send Riekstin to the investigation commission, you will understand everything!” The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U514	Dear colleagues, Let's vote! Please call me! We will vote for a break to be announced on the agenda of the Saeima sitting by 9 a.m. on March 5 this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's against - 38, it's not. This results in a break. Dear colleagues, I must inform you of the answers to Members' questions. Member Zarina, Tutina, Agešina, Krišana and Kucina question to the Minister for Economics “On information provided by the Ministry of Economics regarding the results of the tests carried out by the public electricity trader”. No written reply was received. The Minister for Economics informed that he would give an oral answer. Colleagues who asked the question will you come to the question and answer session? Will there be any representatives to the question and answer session? The Minister is ready to come. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš’ intermediate call.) Are you going to have a question-and-answer session? So count on you. The question to the Prime Minister “Does the Prime Minister have any doubts about the planned reforms of the Minister of Education and Science of Long Suplinsk?” . The question was referred to the Minister of Education and Science. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. The question to the Minister of Health “On solutions for the provision of state-paid medical services to children” was discussed by Ms Agešin, Mr Urbanovič, Mr Krišana, Mr Kucin and Mr Tutina. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions. I repeat, therefore, that the Minister for Economics comes at 17.00 to answer the question asked by Members Zarina, Tutina, Agešin, Krišana and Kucin. The questioners are asked to attend a question-and-answer meeting. The question asked by Members Zarins, Cilevičs, Niconovs, Krišāns and Kabanov, “On the information not provided by the Ministry of Economics regarding the results of the tests carried out by the public trader in electricity”, which we submit to the Minister of Economics for reply, has been received. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U515	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons... No, Raimond Bergmann... No, Aldis Blumbergs (interim: Yes!) )... I see, thank you, Jānis Dūklavs... No, Raivis Dzintars... No, Mary Golubeva... No, I'm not, Inese Rectsen... No, Artuss Neiminis (Dep. A. Neighbours: “How - isn’t?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)... Okay, Alexander Kirstein... Yes, Richard Coll... Yes, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere... No, Linda Ozola... No, Ramona Petraviča... No, Ivan Ribakov... Yes, Lubov Schvecova... Yes, Vita Anda Steel... No, John Wucan... No, Evita Hallie-Gross... Not applicable.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-27-PT13-2043-U516	Interruption until 9 a.m. on March 5, this year. ( Interruption)
