ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We started the second remote sitting of the Saeima on 17 December. The first item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On approval of Lieutenant General Leonīds Kalniņš as Commander of the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia”. First of all, Raimonds Bergmanis, on behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U2	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Saeima received a President's proposal to reconfirm Lieutenant General Leonid Kalniņa as Commander of the National Armed Forces. The Commission examined the above-mentioned President of Latvia's proposal at its meeting on 14 December this year, listened to the lieutenant general's vision of the development of the National Armed Forces over the next four years and unanimously decided to support the draft decision of the Saeima "On the approval of Lt Gen Leonida Kalniņš as Commander of the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia". On behalf of the Commission, I call on Lt-Gen Leonid Mountains as Commander of the National Armed Forces to be approved with effect from 27 January 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The floor will be given to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U4	Hello! Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U5	Yes, Mr. Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U6	Thank you. I would like to call on my colleagues in the Saeima, all Members, to support this draft decision, because Lieutenant General Leonid Kalniņš has so far shown himself very well as the commander of our National Armed Forces, and in his time, being a commander, together with previous Minister Raimond Bergman, and also working in a time in which I am a Minister of Defence, we have not only developed very good cooperation, but this synergy in introducing new reforms, reforming our armed forces, supplying our armed forces with the right equipment and planning national defence - all this is in fact...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U7	Mr. Pabrika... Do we have any technical problems? Colleagues, one moment! We will find out if we have technical problems. ( Pause) It's okay. The Minister is back in the system. Please, Minister. It was such a break...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U8	Yes, so making this case brief, without knowing how long this contact will last for us again, I would call on this highly respected commander to be approved for the next term, because he has a great task ahead of him: to complete a whole series of reforms involving both logistics and the provision of our Earthguard and professional brigade, as well as the promotion of combat capabilities. Leonidas Kalniņa is very respected within NATO, and I very much hope that the Saeima will approve this draft decision and that, in these turbulent times of crisis, the armed forces will be able to continue to develop and achieve their objectives precisely under the leadership of Leonidas Kalniņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U9	Thank you, Minister. There are no other speakers in the debate. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Lt Gen Leonida Kalniņa as Commander of the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Lieutenant General Leonid Kalniņš on his re-approval as Commander of the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia! The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. Members shall have no objections and the draft law shall be forwarded to the commission. Next draft law - Amendment to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Job Seekers. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. There is no objection by Members, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is the examination of draft laws. First draft law under consideration - Amendments to the Health Care Financing Act, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U10	Good morning, very honourable Mrs. Lībiņa-Egnere! High honourable Members! The Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima has reviewed the law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care” before the second reading.... Thus, having examined the draft law and received six proposals. 1. is the proposal of the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele, which provides for a clarification of the wording of Article 11, second paragraph, point 16. And that's what it's about... This version concerns persons entitled to receive healthcare services in full. In the Commission, this minister's proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U12	2. is a proposal drawn up by the Social and Labour Commission. And that, in essence, clarifies Article 11... Paragraph 17 is amended as follows: ‘persons who have been granted a retirement pension or a special state pension’. In the previous version, ‘persons in receipt of a retirement pension...’. Thus, the members of the Commission agreed that this would be a more precise version and supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U13	Members support proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U14	3. There is also a proposal drawn up by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission to exclude Article 3 of the draft law. Article 3 of the draft law provided for the establishment of criteria for the inclusion of health care services in the scope of state-paid health care services. The Commission had quite a long discussion on this. The Commission decided that, however, the development of these criteria takes longer, so that at the beginning of next year the new opening of this law could work together with the Ministry of Health on the development of these criteria, so that these criteria should not be established as a matter of urgency. The Commission therefore supported the exclusion of Article 3 of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U16	Go on 4. - the proposal of the Legal Office of the Saeima, which essentially provides for editorial clarification in Article 4... in point 13, ‘by 31 March 2020’, the words ‘by 30 April 2021’ are replaced by the words ‘by 30 April 2021’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U18	5. There is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and provides for the exclusion of the fourth... the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U20	And 6. is the proposal of Minister for Health Ilze Viņķele to supplement the draft law with the date of its entry into force as follows: ‘The law shall enter into force on 1 January 2021.’ This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U21	For the Commission... Please support the draft law at second, final, reading...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U22	Yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care"! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Roads Act, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U24	Hello, colleagues! At second reading, we will consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads” (No. 854/Lp13). And we work with documents No. 3142B and 3142C. 12 proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1. is the proposal of Minister of Transport Linkaitas related to the change of status of “Latvian State Roads” from the state public limited liability company to the state limited liability company. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U26	2. There is also the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaitas on editorial corrections throughout the law regarding the change of the status of the Republican city to the state city. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U27	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U28	Yes, hello... Hello! In fact, I wanted to apply for proposal 1, but the system of opportunities did not allow it, it was not possible to apply for a debate on proposal 1. I'd like to mark it... And that's why I'd like to come back... that we are returning to proposal 1 and debating it. What I wanted to point out when it comes to proposal 1, although it seems to be a technical proposal... if you read it - it is simply proposed to replace a public limited liability company. But where is salt in all this, why is that necessary? I asked for justification for such a need at the commission meeting, and I did not, and I did not, because it was simply announced - for us it is more convenient, we have done so. And where is that comfort? The convenience is that if it is a public limited-liability company, the supervision of such a company must be carried out by the board. In turn, if it is disposed of and not made as a public limited liability company, but is formed as a public limited liability company, then the board is not necessary and then such a company is affected, its decisions, its management is influenced directly - politically from the Ministry, from the supervising political ministry. And the question is, why do we need such a change in the management model in this case? If we take it even further in the context of what is happening, with this draft law, which is being passed through the Saeima on an urgent basis, with the motivation that we need to help private businessmen, then there are legitimate questions as to why... What is happening at the moment, with what objective is the current draft law? Therefore, my fellow Members, I would call for a responsible approach to the ongoing process and for those who are leading this draft law to come and justify why this is the way in which this idea is being led. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U29	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that you can apply for a debate in this e-Parliament system in a timely manner - from the moment that the agenda has been placed in this system, that is to say, even shortly before the beginning of the sitting, you can apply for a debate on each proposal in due time. On the other hand, when the law is being examined, it is possible to use... request a vote. There is a separate "Requiring a vote" button if you do not want to debate, but want to vote in favour of this proposal. Proposal No 1. In chairing the sitting, I make sure that Members have applied for a debate here, in the system, or in advance with green leaves at the technical staff of the sitting. There was no such situation, nor was the vote required. Please, let us all attend the sitting correctly so that we can continue with it. We therefore continue the debate on 2. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Fare Linkait. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U30	Hello! Thank you, colleagues. I would like to confirm what Mr Zarins said, because I also had a technical problem, and I could not push the "Requiring a vote" button, nor push the "Apply for a debate". However, by commenting accordingly on the situation with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads”... This draft law is addressed as a matter of urgency and during the consultation no major questions were answered, including policy planning documents on the basis of which the proposed amendments to this draft law were made, do not provide answers to very important questions. I would like to draw the attention of both fellow Members and constituents so that they are informed that the aim of this draft law is to open up the road maintenance market to the private sector. One of the documents attached to this draft law... for promotion, it is also noted that in the event of the opening of the state road maintenance market, the administrative costs of “Latvijas Valsts roads” will increase, as investments will be needed to develop and maintain the information system of “Latvijas Valsts roads” as well as to manage concluded contracts and road maintenance resources. ‘ The asset management system of the State Roads of Latvia will be complemented with the necessary functionality, thus ensuring an effective exchange of information between the State Roads of Latvia and service providers. In the first three years... The additional funding needed for the development and implementation of the necessary functionality for the asset management system is expected to be €0.10 million per year, i.e. around €100,000 per year. So already in the policy planning document and... altering the maintenance status of the roads of Latvia, transferring their lotes to private companies, not reducing the costs of the respective maintenance of the roads, but carrying out... a planned transformation of a public undertaking or possibly a transfer to insolvency. And as a result, no reduction in costs... how the planning documents submitted together with this draft law... not foreseen, but an additional EUR 0,10 million per year is already planned and loaded, from taxpayers' money, from probably loans from the European Union to provide “Latvian State Roads”... The change in functionality, although currently, as far as I am aware, “Latvian road operator” has both systems, tools and technical support that allows to control these processes and ensure a sufficiently targeted, timely response by accordingly considering and carrying out the maintenance of the roads of Latvia. And one more moment – in the documents submitted and calculated, it is shown that “Latvian road operator” shows that it efficiently develops and performs an analysis of its work efficiency every year, and by about 2.4 per cent ensures reduction of costs and more efficient use of state budget resources for each of the following periods, including the report to the State Treasury, which was submitted in 2019 from the “Latvian road operator”... a summary of the most efficient and high-quality work carried out. Therefore, in line with the policy documents attached, the amendments to the Road Traffic Act contain a number of shortcomings, shortcomings or arguments that were not taken into account when deciding to open up the road maintenance market. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U31	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U32	Hello, colleagues! I would just like to remind you that we had already debated the very draft law at the previous sitting of the Saeima and we are currently discussing proposal 2, which provides for the replacement of the words "city of the republic" in the respective part of paragraph 3 of the law, with the word "city of the republic". And, in my opinion, the previous speakers did not make the point that this proposal should be supported or supported correctly. Given that there has been an administrative territorial reform and appropriate regulations, I call for this proposal to be supported and for national cities to be defined in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U33	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U34	Yes, colleagues, so that there is no misconception, indeed - we are now discussing proposal 2 and that is something that we can support, because it is legally linked to the changes introduced by the administrative reform. However, I draw attention to the fact that the debate was only due to the fact that, for technical reasons, it was not possible to request a vote on proposal 1 in the e-Parliament system and it was also impossible to apply for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U35	Thank you. No one has requested a vote on this proposal. Colleagues, if you wish to request a vote on this proposal... The debate is closed. If you wish to request a vote on this proposal... Members therefore agree with the proposal supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U36	Yes, colleagues, 3 is the motion of Member Krišjānis Feldman, which provides for the exclusion of a provision in the draft law which determines the mass of goods vehicles to be charged for by the road user's toll, since the provision does not concern the purpose of the draft law and is regulated by a special law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U37	Members agree. And I would like to inform you that the pages have been changed... Today, too, all Members have received a document from the Commission that the draft law has been changed to proposals 3 and 4. Thank you. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U38	4. is the proposal of Minister Lindhait, which coincides with 3. - Krišjānis Feldman's proposal. And the Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U40	5. There is a motion from Member Švekova. It is envisaged to exclude a provision of the draft law which provides for the day-to-day maintenance of public roads to be ensured in accordance with the laws and regulations on public procurement by dividing the subject-matter of the procurement into parts by individual regions. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U41	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U42	Yes, thank you, colleagues. The document itself, which is accompanied by the law on... The amendment of the Roads Act is one of the most important shortcomings. And that is not even a disadvantage, but it is in its very foundations that a completely perverse approach is taken in government policy. The report talks about the benefits and disadvantages of the state in the case of its or other model - full, partial market opening or maintaining the existing arrangements - but it ignores the public interest because the national interests (in this case they are... First of all, the interests of the Ministry of Transport or Feldman's lobbyed building societies are not the same and the public interest is not the same. For the public, in this case those who are drivers, including public transport passengers, it is important that the maintenance of national roads, simplified - all roads - that are behind the border signs of settlements, is of a quality that ensures safe and pleasant driving. Unfortunately, these requirements are lower in Latvia than in the neighbouring countries, Estonia and Lithuania, according to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. In preparing these documents, the priority issues must be whether the public will get better ways, whether this will be the same as the costs and what the price will be, rather than simply whether opening up the market will create competition that will probably reduce road maintenance costs in the long term, or whether, in the case of construction cartels, it will make road maintenance more expensive. The question, too, which is not addressed in the prepared documents, is what will happen to “Latvian road operator” themselves? It is a public undertaking with very valuable public assets. The worst scenario in the event of market opening is that if the State opens the market and divides the lots of public road maintenance contracts, many of them are likely to be won too, but perhaps not. If this is not the case, both the number of employees and the size of the assets will have to be reduced and the future existence and strategy of this company will have to be decided accordingly. It can already be seen that there are more than 1,200 people working, paying salaries, guaranteed income, and employed in regions or rural areas where this job is probably the only job and source of income for these people. At the same time, they are also the only ones who buy something in other places, i.e. they are heating local, small regions, the local economy at micro level. I am in favour of improving the quality of roads when opening up the market, but if this is not ensured and not addressed in document planning, if it is not clearly stated and laid down in policy planning documents, then such an event should not happen. And then the opening of the market should simply be frozen or postponed, ensuring, from the outset, that planned documents meet the public interest as a whole and not the interests of individual market players or builders' cartels. That is why I ask my colleagues to support my proposal and not to make an unthinkable decision that will open the market, people will lose their jobs, public budgets will not be spent efficiently and purposefully, and instead we will get a dangerous situation or an uncontrolled situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U43	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U44	Personally, I believe that where it is possible to create competition and make the provision of services more efficient, it is necessary to do so. But it needs to be done in a way that really has this positive effect on such a measure, because... That is to say, competition has a positive effect... it makes sense to try to induce in cases where the positive effect of competition will be greater than the negative effect of any existing larger business system being divided into several small businesses. And here, my colleague Švecova rightly pointed to the risks that could develop. If we try to make this system now... to open up competition, but do it inappropriately, unthinkingly, then we can achieve exactly the opposite effect that instead of the situation on this market, that not prices will go down, not quality will be better - on the contrary, given the situation that we have in the construction sector, given that there is a reasonable suspicion of a construction cartel, of the involvement of the leading politicians in the creation and maintenance of such a cartel, we can only achieve what is currently being done... and that was my question, to which I have also not received a reply (the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport had applied for but then withdrawn his participation in the debate) - what is the objective then, why we want to speed up... Why do we want to implement this really useful measure for Latvia in such a rapid, unthinking manner, which can have exactly the opposite effect? Why do we need urgency? Why do we not discuss all these things in substance, do not assess all the arguments and do not create a truly successful, well-supervised system, not just for one person, one political person, conveniently supervised, but well-supervised, supervised system, which really will lead to effective results? I would like to receive this answer. Please apply for the progress of this draft law and explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U45	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U46	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Now we have to vote on amendments to the Roads Act, but many facts indicate that this is a completely wrong story. In particular, currently the main roads in the country are fully managed by the state-owned company “Latvian Road Maintainer”. It works in 200 different places every day, employing 1262 people. ‘ The foundation has 4911 vehicles, tractors and even special equipment, including 178 graders, which is more than a quarter of the Latvian registered graders. The company uses high-tech anti-slip mixtures, modern technology to fill pits, special software for work and route registration. ‘ The Latvian road maintainer” manages 41 warehouses with various materials with a total capacity of more than 60 thousand tons, as well as 44 mineral deposits - dolomite, sand, gravel. Last year the state-owned company had a turnover of EUR 72,4 million, of which 11,2 million came from commercial activities... works on municipal and private roads, as well as from the sale of minerals. Last year, investments were made in fixed assets and intangible assets of EUR 12.8 million. What else do you need? Ladies, however, the Ministry of Transport calculated that this valuable and successful company could do 14.27 percent more for the same money. On this basis, next year, out of the EUR 72.83 million earmarked for the budget item... The budget programme ‘Maintenance and restoration of public roads’ provides for the allocation of 11.75 million to private individuals. In the Riga region alone, it is planned to return 1023 kilometres of road to private people. They can, in turn, hire subcontractors, but they will only have to be disclosed if the share of works exceeds 10 per cent. This means that there will be a lot of so-called grey firms building roads, which the state cannot control. It is expected that this successfully functioning vertically integrated complex “Latvian Road Maintenance”... its economic impact on the transfer of functions to private individuals next year will be very insignificant - only about 434 thousand euros. At the same time, the division of the territory of Latvia into so-called lotes to private road operators undermines common service standards, complicates coordination of work and, most importantly, leaves a significant part of the employees of the “Latvijas road operator” without work. All the signs show that the Ministry of Transport and the political and business forces behind it are planning to function successfully... this hidden ‘privacy’ of the public sector. In my opinion, our Parliament (especially during the crisis) has a duty to prevent this 'privacy'. Therefore, my proposal is to support Mrs Švekova's proposal and not to vote in favour of the division of the country's territory into so-called lotes. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U47	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U48	First of all, thank you to colleagues who praised “Latvian Road Manager”. So we are pleased that this company is really modern and competitive in today's market conditions, and so our course in the Ministry of Transport is correct, so when opening the market, we are sure that this company will also be able to compete in market conditions. The proposal itself is against market opening. And I will tell you why this proposal was not supported. So in fact, the situation in the sector is that there are, for example, road construction companies, which mostly work in the summer season, they don't have to do anything in the winter season, and the “Latvian road operator”, who has until now, when they are winter... snowy winters, then work is mostly in winter, while in summer their work is less. And to the ‘holder of Latvian roads’, given that it has a monopoly in the field of road maintenance, there is a restriction on public roads to operate in the field of road construction. Thus, when opening the market, “Latvian road operator” will be removed, and “Latvian road operator” will also be able to operate in the road construction sector in the summer when there is less work, while road builders, who have exactly the largest amount of work in the summer and the winter empty period, will be able to fill this empty period (of course, if they win the fair competition) with their works. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported and supported by the opening up of the market as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U49	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U50	Colleagues! I would like to have some opposition to Mr Bhutan and to remind everyone that Mr Linita also took part in the debate last week when we were looking at this matter. Mr. Linkaita mentioned that there have been surveys and that there are 50 entrepreneurs in Latvia who are active in this area. I would ask you to think about how many of them 50 could be involved in this process and who really would be those who could qualify in some way. In my opinion, it would be difficult to find at least one of the 50 works of this size and in such a specific case today who would be ready to qualify for such works. What Mrs Švelova is proposing is that this division of regions goes - I support it in a way, but it does not change their main problems and challenges. What Mr. Butane says... and there was one of our colleagues, in my opinion, Mr Možvillo, who said that there was nothing to worry about and that we were here... tell everyone some impossible stories, maybe... Well, I'm not gonna agree. In my opinion, one very difficult case, which I have already said, is the procurement of public transport. And... which is now one of the main functions to be provided by the Ministry of Transport, and it is, in my opinion, very... Well, there's been a disaster there. And there's the only thing the Ministry of Transport could do - it's to cancel this procurement as such and start working on a new one, because the results are rather devastating. With regard to the other events that have taken place during this parliamentary term, which I have great doubts about, how it is right to place critical infrastructure at the moment in a free market, which is so praised by the New Conservative Party. One example is the Europarlament elections, and the postal service provider was selected on the free market, who had won “Latvijas Pasts” on the free market. We know what the result was. Should anyone really remember this here in Parliament? The European elections, which is such an important event in a democratic country, were, from an organisational point of view, simply demolished to a large extent because of this nuance. And it was, well, a big failure for the Central Electoral Commission as well. Now you're offering to go this free... the opening up of the free market, imagining that everything will happen... everything will be very good. The experience so far in this term and the experience so far in the work of the Ministry of Transport so far suggest that, to a large extent, opposition colleagues are absolutely right. And we'll probably end up in a situation where they'll be one, two, maybe three players. And it would still be very good if those players were local players, who have very great doubts about it, and I think if any local businessman thinks that he will be able to rule here and take this government order in the future, get it in his own nitrogen... privatising the substance of this company... It can also happen that these are foreign companies who come here and put governments and taxpayers in an unpleasant situation at a time when they have obtained a real monopoly. For now, of the 50 entrepreneurs that Mr Linita mentioned here, I strongly doubt that someone would have the capacity to undertake such work today. And, colleagues, remember that you are currently voting on critical infrastructure, it is a national critical infrastructure. And let's imagine... We can imagine next, then... Latvenergo was a referendum, but we can, as well, transfer to the free market, i.e. privatise another major company that provides critical infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U51	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U52	Yes, thank you, colleagues. I'm just reflecting on what Mr. Butane said... He already said one very important thing in his speech - in the case of a fair competition. Yes, only in the case of a fair competition, Latvians could benefit from the opening of the market. However, there are very significant shortcomings in all the documents accompanying these projects. There is a narrow vision of the problem, with a significant disregard for the three most important things - the interests of the public, namely the specific users of national roads, without answering the most important question: will the changes lead to an improvement in the quality of road maintenance? Secondly, what are the issues relating to public property... Is that what's First of all, their belonging and value... And thirdly, the future fate of the employees of “Latvian Road Administration”, which is not a detail for Latvia’s scale. And that's why! - I also raised this discussion, tabled proposals and asked the Ministry of Transport to draw up documents and justifications really carefully from the beginning, and to propose amendments before then, with radical changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U53	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U54	The main driving force behind development is competition, and this is the story of exactly this. By opening up the market, we increase competition in both maintenance and construction works, so that not only “Latvian road operator” must be modern, but also modern for the whole industry, so that our industry will become competitive not only in Latvia as such, but will also be able to exit the export market, where it will be able to generate export revenues with its competitiveness. I therefore call for support for this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U55	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U56	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! We have already discussed many things at first reading, and in practice we have also made some kind of proposals. Are they now reflected in the next... at this second reading? Unfortunately, there is no. Yes, I don't hide - I am, let's say, I think a conservative man, and the principle is that - seven times before cutting. In this case too, when it comes to a very serious issue - the maintenance of the state roads by the company “Latvian Road Maintainer”, where huge resources from the state – modern technology, as well as technologies, have really been invested. And now, when I opened this market, I had to... the question previously asked about these companies, which could compete... Well, you can say that at present there are practically no such things in Latvia. These named 50 - these are more roads, say, builders, perhaps some businessman or farmer who has a grader, and a point. In my view, what happens next? Then there will be this - so they will be divided into lots, they will apply, but what will they do? So these companies will quickly have to buy technology, this is one option. So it is obvious that credit needs to be taken, that foreign banks operating in our country need to be strengthened. It would still be half-wonny. But where “Latvian Road Maintainer” will not win as SIA, it is clear that “Latvian Road Maintainer” will have to choose – it will be in front of the dilemma – what to do with this technique? Nothing else will obviously stay as privatised as we have experienced. This privatisation is about sandwiches, and then the newly created firms, here they get from the state the technique ever purchased for sandwiches. This is what we have seen in the times of the Shele and in other times: liberal politics, dear friends, and conservative views, and also parties, should take another approach. And I think this question could be a divided approach, where some of the main roads in the country would still be left - let's say, a national road operator as a mandatory requirement - that would be one option. I also said that these administrative regions... the principle should be respected that administrative regions should be given certain functions - none of which is reflected in this. I would like to say that the issue is still topical and, to be honest, in my view, these amendments to the draft law should now be voted on quickly. Open the market is not art, and I said to eliminate the company is not art. But what will the result be? It is not that, let us say, these open markets work at once by a cut next to our neighbours. No, no. I think it would, however, be useful if this were to happen gradually. Gradually separating certain paths where this principle of the open market could be respected, and in such key roads as are, let us say, very important for the country - no. And one more thing. Municipalities and public order - it is guaranteed financing in any circumstances, in any sector, anywhere. And the company that has this guaranteed funding, guaranteed either by the State or by the municipality, is happy. If, let us say, the private person wins, then of course he will be happy with such guaranteed funding, but the other thing is, will it be better quality? Maybe cheaper... Paper may be cheaper, but how will life be? I'm not sure everything will happen so quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U57	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U58	Thank you. We've been here lately... not in recent times, but over a sufficiently long period of time, such a very interesting trend that we have the key to reform in any sector, in any area. But the objective of the reforms is always on paper and tested on models, and also on world practice. A number of arguments have been made here today that when we open this market, we will get... Firstly, competition will increase - that is good. Secondly, there will be additional export opportunities for road maintenance, which, unfortunately, have not appeared today and nowhere. Therefore, it is important to talk about the fact that when the market is opened, our neighbours will let our builders into their places - I have great doubts that this will be the case. So with every reform... every reform needs to be done with due care, and here it is not the main thing to think about what results can be achieved, which is clearly important too, but it is extremely important to weigh and assess all the risks that come up in this case. When it comes to competition, it is possible to promote competition in a wide variety of ways, and not least the opening up of the market. Tell me who has assessed, say, the development of public-private partnerships in this area, which preserves the state monopoly, but also allows and attracts the opportunities of private entrepreneurs? Why have other opportunities to expand and increase competition not also been assessed? Unfortunately, it disappeared behind those beautiful words that, behold, everything will be fine if we do this reform only. I call for support for the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U59	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U60	Colleagues, what Mr. Butane said... Well, trying to understand and believe in some way in Mr. Butane, analysing his previous course is a difficult thing to do. And we can only analyse what happened now. And now there is an agreement, a number of public transport contracts have been concluded, which are very critical, and, in my opinion, the coalition Members should wake up at one point, because when these grants are to be paid in the budget, I think it will be too late. What concerns the Minister himself... and why I have these reflections on how correct it is... Privatisation took place in Latvia in the 1990s, and we know what politicians were in power in the 1990s and what these politicians are doing today. And in the 1990s, Tālis Linkaits was the main specialist in privatisation cases and a communication person for contacts with the government at the Privatisation Agency. And it is this minister's previous experience and what I see with regard to public transport procurement, these close links with these people, I think... I have these justified doubts, and when I see exactly the work that the Ministry of Transport is doing today, I have justified doubts. And I say that this is a privatisation, a hidden form of privatisation, there is nothing to do with any competition issues here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U61	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U62	Yes, then again, I kindly call on Mr Butane, or on the Minister for Transport, or on those who are driving this bill, to address these legitimate concerns to the public that what is happening is not to take care of the country, to make the whole system more effective, but to implement the political environment. I invite you to answer Mr. Butane why this stock... “The State Roads of Latvia” is transformed from a public limited liability company, thus circumventing the need for advice, and why should all of this be done so urgently? Because we obviously see that there are many factors that have not been debated, unthought-out, and to which you cannot answer. I'm waiting for this answer! I accept that society as a whole is waiting, especially by the voters of the New Conservative Party, to make sure that this party remains faithful to its ideals that it has promised its voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U63	Thank you. The name of the Minister of Transport to Far Linkaith.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U64	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I am very interested in listening to this debate, which started with the previous, first reading, when we talked about this draft law. And I would like to remind you, however, of the main emphasis on why, after the end of the seven-year delegation agreement, we have decided to open up the market to the government. At the moment, we are not convinced that we are receiving a service at the most cost and in the most cost-effective way, and there is no other easier way to find out how this price is made and what service is if we do not ask the market what the real situation is. We have been examining in the Ministry of Transport, for over a year, the question of how to open up the market properly and whether it should be opened up at all. We ordered both a KPMG study and consulted stakeholders. We discussed this concept quite extensively at the Road Council in June this year, and it was supported. We confirmed this concept in the government on 26 August, and there were discussions there too. And thank you to my colleague from the opposition, who very much quotes the Cabinet's report on this issue. I can say with a guarantee that this report was balanced and all possible risks, as you say, were described, and for each risk there was also a solution, as we... how we address them. And also with regard to “Latvian Road Manager”, the Ministry of Transport is interested that... to make it effective, to be competitive, to open up new market opportunities. As you know, currently “The Maintainer of the Latvian Roads” is limited to 20 per cent of the work to be done. They can start elsewhere in the market at the time when, as a result of the competition, we will find out that “Latvian road... the offer is, for example, the most advantageous. There will be no such restriction to start in other market segments, in other purchases “Latvian Road Operator”. That's why... I already know that “Latvian Road Maintenance” is also preparing for this procurement. And I don't personally... There will be no objections if it wins all possible lots that will be offered, but at the same time I also know that there are applicants who will be able to start with this offer from the private sector. ‘ The State Roads of Latvia” has already organised a first stakeholder consultation. And that was a discussion... Both large-scale road construction companies and small and large companies from regions. And, in my opinion, this is another aspect that needs to be taken into account here - to give entrepreneurs in the regions an opportunity to increase the volume of their work, to increase their capacity to provide quality services in the country of Latvia. As regards Mr Kazinovsky's question, this issue of strengthening regional level is, as you know, relevant to the preparation of the draft law for administrative regions and to the discussions in the government on the transfer of competences to administrative regions. On the part of the Ministry of Transport, we are ready to hand over one part of the local roads to regional level, and then, of course, at regional level... these roads will be able to operate at the relevant regional level. Also about the quality of road maintenance, which is currently ensured by “Latvian State Roads” by monitoring how “Latvian road maintainer” works – this quality system will be maintained after the competition is concluded. That is why I ask you not to support Mrs Švekova's proposal and to support the Government's solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U65	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Lubov Svekov's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, The Bureau has received an application from Member Ivars Zarins to speak on the procedure. Please enable a section on the procedure. Mr. Zarins, please also apply electronically. The name of the Member, Ivars Zarins, is about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U66	Yes, I had applied to speak about the procedure right at the beginning of the sitting. And this is in relation to the situation that we are facing with applying for a debate. I wanted to call on the chair of the sitting, however, to follow the system if indeed the system provides this opportunity, which you mentioned, because, as a number of Members have already pointed out, the system did not offer the opportunity to apply for a debate. And the fact that you have pointed out that you can see that you could have applied in advance, apologies - but that is already a violation of the parliamentary roll if you do not give the Member the opportunity to apply for a debate only because he did not do so in the past, because he did not know that the system would not offer such an opportunity. I would, however, call on you as a potential Saeima... The judge of the Constitutional Court does not, however, start to ignore laws already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U67	Mr Zarins, I have once again explained to you all the possibilities. Members can apply for a debate, both during the debate and before the debate, both at the e-Saema platform and at the time when we are meeting here. Such possibilities have also been retained on the e-Samima platform. Each Head of the sitting shall, during the conduct of the sitting, be thoroughly satisfied of the information received from both the previously submitted requests for debate and the e-Saeima platform, pending a few seconds, as a delay is possible until this signal is received in the system. I did so also on proposal 1 in the chair of the sitting. In proposal 2, you expressed your concern that it was not possible to apply. As chair of the sitting, I once again explained the procedure. But you also had the opportunity to speak. I didn't stop your speaking time. Similarly, Member Švecova twice on the proposal 2 explained the related proposal 1, so I hope that we will be able to continue the debate with this draft law, with the other draft laws, in the same way as the roll of order of the Saeima, and in the same way as the platform e-Parliament offers us excellently. We are continuing the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U68	Yeah, thank you. Proposal No 6 - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaitas, which provides for the exclusion from the law of a provision which lays down the procedure for classifying road sections frequently involved in road traffic accidents and the safety of the road network on the trans-European road network, leaving this provision in the special law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U70	7. - also the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaitas, which provides for the possibility to delegate the day-to-day maintenance of roads to “Latvian road operator” if the purchase has not been concluded or there are other objective reasons which have led to the absence of a new road operator in one of the territories for a period of between nine months and three years. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U71	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U72	Dear Members, Presidium! I ask you to combine the two times. This is the last nail in this story.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U73	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U74	If I... I was guilty myself, but I didn't take part in the first reading debate, listening to Far Linita, who also encouraged me to say that if the competition hadn't... will not be with results, then no one will already destroy the road maintenance, it will be with all... and so on, and so on. In fact, this is definitely not a new story. It has already become quite outdated, and it seems to me that we can predict and can divide these lots of Latvia for every road builder who represents a region. That is absolutely clear, and just like you can't predict... It may already be that they will work better, but here is a safety valve that Mr. Linkait is currently cutting out completely and definitively, saying that even if something doesn't work there, there will be no more. And that's... This whole story is very dangerous, and I can say with full confidence that it would have been absent from the previous government, but in this government, where we see every minister can work on his own, every party - on its own, the others do not really interfere... I already know what the vote will be, and that is why we do not participate in it, but my duty to point out, however, some of the dangers that are contained in the removal of this one, so I called it the last nail that... we will sell, even if this does not happen, since we cut off all the roads, then in a slow spirit we will sell out the technique that the country has bought for its money in the last few years. Why? This... Now we can call it a business... and market opening and delegation to private firms in the world is normal practice, only, well, I don't know... probably the Ministry already has better statistics, but most of the time it is delegated to some roads that are not... so much... which does not require such investments in machinery to clean them up, and then local farmers are working to take out their area, which has no place to lay down in the winter... Here I can say, the local farmers, stop hoping, this is not aimed at you, and there will be nothing of that for you. These are mainly separate phases under State control. Why is this business extremely similar to heating networks, because every city and every settlement is heated... with the waterline, with the electricity? Because they are in some way indispensable and dependent on what happens to the consumer. We take the same example of heating networks, which were also returned to private companies in one other city. While they create everything and fall into the rules of the leagues, i.e., they win the competition, then everything is good, and then something kind of softness begins, and then, God does not give, there is a cold winter. This business consists of paying for the average of what the winter will be, because in summer keep... I think everyone can manage - whether it is public or it is private. But when the unpredictable comes - winter with all its indicators - comes up with a money question, it's a cost. If the winter is warm... Until now, at the old order, the state, under the control of its road maintenance, has, of course, stopped this money either for the next year... the dividends were paid out there, there was certainly a chance to buy a technique and to think about what the next year would do. But, don't give it to God, it's cold winter. We remember very well, perhaps the public roads of the country were less mentioned, but for one year it was a very snowy winter, and Riga had its enormous problems, and every time it turned out that there was no money. And now all road builders will be chartered - whether they will cover their profits from the roads they have built somewhere, or because there is a lot of snow and they have not looped... but no, there will be new decisions, there will be unforeseen funds that will be invested in. If there's a warm winter, no one's a dividend anywhere. So I wouldn't have gone to this, I'd like to say an experiment, looking at where... now every government... Now there is a saying for those in power. Let us take a look at what will happen and what the economy will be, but I will by no means be ashamed of my scepter and the words that, for men, this project seems to me to be going on and, after five years, you will not be remembered with a good name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U75	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U76	Yes, unfortunately, I am forced to repeatedly call on the drivers of this draft law, on the responsible or responsible political power for all this measure to come and justify why, now, in this situation and in this way, there is an urgent need to bring this draft law forward. Otherwise, if you do not come and do not justify, you do not respond to these concerns, to the facts that are now mentioned, to the question of how your idea will actually work better, then that means that, in fact, I have to protest here to Mr Kučinski and say that no project will fail. On the contrary, this project is progressing successfully, because the project is not going to ensure that Latvian roads are managed more efficiently, but to make a million businesses. If that is not the case, come and base it on your own. If your main concern at the moment is not that using the weakness of the coalition, the bardac that is happening to you now is given the opportunity to tear each one out of a delicious couss and to tear the country simply in pieces so that everyone can lobby some of your interests, then please come and tell me why you are doing all this now. All the more... which to me in this whole story a little bit, to put it mildly, wonders that such a draft law is driven by the acceptance of the government. Why? Because if you look at this bill, it has a clear negative impact, because this “State Roads of Latvia” Joint Stock Company, now SIA, pays more than a million in the budget. And it is very strange that, as a matter of urgency, the government itself is now leading the budget suddenly... directs a draft law with a negative budgetary impact and fails itself to justify why it is doing so, why it is being done. Now what do you have to hide there? Come and tell me honestly why you are doing this. You could say at the Commission's sitting, however, because we need to support a private businessman. Come on, call it concrete how interests you are lobbying here, because it looks like you are not thinking about the interests of the country at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U77	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U78	Colleagues, I can give further examples of how the country has made this selection of the private sector. One example of this is the ambulances, which also... We can assess whether it was a good or a bad example, but I think that the government's decision to do it was right. And in this case (I hope Mr. Linkaita is also taking part and following) this is the problem, I believe (and Mr. Kučinska has already marked it) - while everything is good, while everything is cool... when it comes up... In local governments, for example, it is - more snow is coming up, negotiations are starting on how profitable or unfavorable it is to provide this service. No snow at all - again the same thing: negotiations on it begin... for some grants, idles and anything else. And the size of the municipality, whether it's a big city... there is an opportunity to ensure this competition. You're... I would ask you, however, to apply for this proposal and to clarify it. This proposal... Mr Riekstins has so beautifully read this proposal, but the problem is that you propose that this article be excluded. And in this respect, you offer to give up what you spoke about in the explanatory statement at first reading that if something goes wrong, then it is “the maintenance of the roads of Latvia”. In my opinion, on the other hand, it should be stipulated that in each region, at least one substantial part of the “Latvian road operator” remains, where it receives it without any tender, simply a delegation agreement. And then everywhere else we can make these competitions and maybe start this experiment, but let the country have some... Otherwise, if these competitions are held, it will be one year - a maximum of one year! In what road construction market is “Latvian road operator” able to participate if it is a completely different profile company? Of course, you can try something out there, but they don't do the construction of roads in such a bigger sense, with the restoration of... But it's not... Now they don't start one day with such tasks... It would be difficult to re-qualify and start the sudden stage of Riga-Sigulda "Sēnīte" now... buy such a technique, it's something completely different. And for this particular proposal, I would like to hear what your vision is then, how you will address the concerns that you will have to do if the market does, however... there will be problems with this open market mechanism. If appeals are initiated, what will be the solution that you will propose in this case? Minister, I call on you to engage in this debate, because this is precisely what you said to Parliament at the handover... first reading, and at second reading you offer to close these norms out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U79	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U80	So the specific proposal comes from a set of proposals. And given that one of the proposals provides for setting the deadline for opening the market on 1 May 2022, the other deadlines – both for the delegation to the Latvian road operator and for the entry into force of the new procedure – change accordingly. I therefore call on my colleagues to read this proposal in the context of all the other proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U81	The name of the Minister of Transport to Far Linkaith. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U82	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Thank you, colleagues, for this discussion and for the issues that are being discussed. I very much appreciate Mr Kučinski's experience and his knowledge of the economy, and I also perceive the scandal that might have arisen in previous years, because, as we know, there have been two attempts to open up the road maintenance market and both previous attempts have been unsuccessful. One is because there was no thoughtful process of how the market should be opened up. And the other, in my opinion, was a minor attempt to open up this matter at all. So now there is once again a situation where we need to make a distinction between what we are going on. And I will not hide that we also know the risky moments associated with the winter season, and we are also aware that there was one case in our neighbourhood, Estonia, where one of the tenderers who had promised a given market share was unable to fulfil its obligations under the winter conditions, so we have also taken this into account when discussing the terms of the tender with the State Roads of Latvia, as well as the guarantees that the applicants should give. And “Latvia’s State Roads” will follow so that applicants are able to perform their duties. Therefore, we also do not deliberately organise their competition so that this change of tenderers takes place as the winter season approaches, but so that we can see that the applicant is working so that we can make sure that the applicant has all the necessary equipment and resources so that, when the winter season begins, there is no unpleasant surprise that can, of course, never be ruled out. But this particular proposal, which we are discussing, is not on this subject, but on the contrary - this specific proposal is: if a winner is not identified in one lot (knowing that our applicants want to appeal against one or the other decision in the procurement process, it is highly probable), we have left a guarantee right on the national side that "Latvian road operator" continues to work until another applicant is identified. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U83	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Faraway Linkait's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 60, for - 6, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U84	8. there is a proposal by Member Sveciova to clarify the time limits for the transitional provisions. The proposal has been partly supported by the Commission, including this 10th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U85	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U86	Yeah, thank you. Many groups of companies working in the construction sector in Latvia also have their own road construction and maintenance companies. Just as in the recent past, several narrowly specialised road construction companies applied for construction and real estate development. But business goes where the money is. And constant public funding is guaranteed for maintaining roads, which may even increase in view of the government's decision of 8 December to allocate 100 million euros to road construction and other road works every year from next year. The question arises, therefore, why not try to qualify for this source of money, especially if the period of the national delegation contract expires immediately? There is even worse scenario: if the existence of “Latvian road operator” becomes unnecessary in the event of market opening, then there is also an opportunity to acquire, from a practical point of view, very valuable assets of the state-owned company, which can be restored in a guaranteed way. There is another nuance which, when it comes to assessing risks in the event of full or partial market opening, is not covered by the conceptual solution proposed by the government - criminal law. There is still a so-called construction cartel case in collective memory, the outcome of which is only expected. But the maintenance of public roads... Full or partial opening with procurement... Lot’s components, in fact, create the conditions for market sharing between service providers, including the creation of business associations for participation in procurement... and found in lotoms. That is why I also propose that the opening of the market be postponed through full and effective evaluation and taking into account of all circumstances when opening up the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U87	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U88	On behalf of the Commission, I can remind you that it is partly supported and included in proposal 10. Therefore, in the case of a vote, I call for abstaining or rejecting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U89	Thank you. Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal tabled by Member Lubova Svekova! Please vote mode! For - 18, for - 50, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U90	9. There is also a proposal by Member Švekova, the draft law includes an obligation to develop requirements and foresee responsibilities, and to ensure compliance with the Estonian model of road maintenance. The proposal is, of course, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U91	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U92	Yeah, thank you. In fact, the main purpose of this proposal was to provide for liability in the specific documents drawn up for the possible failure to comply with the terms of the contract in the event of the opening of the market. And I have found, through a rather detailed examination of the policy planning documents that come together with the opening up of the market, that there are a number of shortcomings and there is nowhere to say that, indeed, after the opening up of the market, following the pattern of the opening up of the market in Estonia, the highest requirements would also be introduced in Latvia, or the responsibility of market operators entering the maintenance of the road would be clearly and unequivocally guaranteed for the outstanding or poorly fulfilled obligations. That is why I also put forward these proposals in order to make it compulsory, in the rules of the law and, consequently, in the procurement documents, to lay down the responsibilities of those companies that are likely to win... for maintenance of lotes roads, quality, safety and appropriate standards, and for those standards to be the same as in Estonia, not to mention Lithuania, because it is evident from the analytical survey that in several positions both Lithuania and Estonia its requirements for maintaining roads are higher than in Latvia. And it should also be noted that Lithuania does not open the market for maintaining roads, and this is still ensured by the state. And we all, as road users, those who travel to Lithuania, both see and feel their quality and their respective importance for the maintenance of their other roads for our driving, for the preservation of our vehicles and also for the well-being of our citizens. Another important thing I wanted to highlight and draw attention to, colleagues then also deciding on the overall vote on this bill - in fact, all the documents coming to the opening-up of the market... is not intended to reduce the market and... not a reduction in expenditure, but an increase. Thus, an increase of EUR 0,10 million per year is foreseen for “Latvian road operator” from the moment the market is opened up. The increase in costs planned for daily maintenance is one percentage point of the daily maintenance costs, plus additional consideration should also be given to value added tax, which is currently not paid by “Latvian road operator”, but if lots are opened, then value added tax will be the means that will not be allocated to maintaining roads. Of course, I hope that companies will not use the schemes and pay their value added tax to the state budget, but there are a lot... a high risk of otherwise happening. And another important thing. The main aim of private business is always to make profits. And what is the main objective for us, as Members of the Saeima, to take decisions on the future fate and income of valuable state-owned property such as “Latvian Road Maintainer”, as well as on what services and quality will citizens receive? I therefore ask you to weigh your decision very much before we vote in favour of the draft law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U93	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U94	Yes, colleagues, I would also stress that this proposal is very important and important, namely to provide for these quality requirements, if indeed all that is being done at the moment is being done for the purpose which has been announced to the public. In particular, to build this system of road management in Latvia more efficient and in accordance with Latvian public interests, not to make (I am sorry, but use the word) “aero” with road management. It is therefore important to support such a proposal with such quality requirements. And I still... I am repeatedly appealing to the draftsmen of this law to state why you want to rush through the Saeima's draft law as a matter of urgency, if you have already admitted that, even in the ministry, there, in your coalition, you have been embarrassing this issue for a whole year. And the question is, why do you not want to debate the Saeima with due responsibility? Why do you want to accept it urgently, so it will be effective immediately, the next day, according to the law... that all this will begin to work on the day after the law is passed? I have not heard the argument; on that I have also highlighted the voters who listen... what listens to what is happening now... draw conclusions that are actually happening. Or anyone throws the skin on the opposite... And from the wolf enough is going to become a wolf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U95	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Obviously, we must continue the debate on this proposal after a break. Mr Bhutan has referred to the debate, so I am closing the debate. Mr. Riekstin, would you like to mention something else on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U96	On behalf of the Commission, I would just remind you that the proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U97	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! For -14, for -55, for -2. The proposal is not supported. Colleagues, as I said, are the time to break. We will continue to work on this bill after a break at 13:30. Registration of participants. Registration has been successfully completed. So the break is till 13:30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U98	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We are on December 17th. And continue to examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U99	Yes, colleagues, let's go on with 10. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkait. It provides for the drafting of obsolete directives in the European Union, replacing them with current ones, and specifies the time limits for transitional provisions. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U101	11. - also the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkait. Also in the informative... which also provides for the deletion of the previous Directives from the information reference to the European Union Directives and the replacement of the current ones. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U103	And the last one, colleagues, is 12. - also a proposal by the Minister of Transport Linkait to determine the time of entry into force of the law on the day following that on which it was announced. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U104	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U105	Yes, thank you, colleagues. This is the last proposal before the vote on the draft law as a whole, and I therefore ask colleagues not to support the draft law as a whole, on the basis of those arguments which have also been expressed earlier on a number of unthought-out criteria, namely the criminal legal aspect and risks, respectively, the failure to ensure quality, in accordance with the same standards as the opening up of the market in Estonia, and also the fact that a clear and effective mechanism and tools have not been clarified and proposed... which will take place further with “Latvian Road Administration” as a state property. Therefore, when assessing all the "for" and "no" and programming documents, I ask my colleagues not to support this draft law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U106	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U107	I would like to express my thanks to colleagues in the Saeima, as well as to the government for helping to work on this draft law and for understanding why it is necessary. And the rapid entry into force of this draft law is necessary because the delegation agreement for “Latvian Road Maintainer” is until 31 December of this year. And in order to be able to provide continuous road maintenance services next year, the entry into force of the draft law is necessary as soon as possible. Thank you once again to all the colleagues who supported. And I call for support both for the proposal and for the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U108	Name to the Member and Minister of Transport for Far Linkait.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U109	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Colleagues! I would also like to thank you for the debate that has been held on this draft law. Indeed, this is one of the important decisions in the road sector, so we have come very carefully from the country to assess all the risks, all the possible scenarios. I would also like to thank Mrs Švekova for having read very carefully our documentation that we have prepared. And it also confirms that the public had the opportunity to get acquainted with both the information report of the Cabinet of Ministers and other evaluation materials that... prepared by our industry and our experts. And with regard to quality requirements, I would like to assure you that they will remain firm. And those... It is regulated by Section 6, Paragraph Three of the Road Traffic Law, which states that the requirements for the maintenance of roads of the State and municipalities and the procedure for monitoring their implementation are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. We have also prepared detailed regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers specifically on road maintenance, which is coordinated with all ministries and also with the Latvian Municipal Union. I am therefore convinced that the preparatory process for this market opening regulation is going on in a qualitative way. Thank you, colleagues, and I call on you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U110	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, do you want to refer to the 12th proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U111	I would remind you that the 12th proposal is supported by the Commission. And I call for support for the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U112	Therefore, no vote is required on proposal 12. And the Members are in favour. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! For - 56, for - 17, for - 5. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Members Feldman, Riekstina, Pucens, Dzintara, Jušas, Čakšas, Budriķis, Muižniece, Znotiņš and Zaļe-Gross requesting that the time of the debate be determined at the second extraordinary meeting on 17 December: three minutes, speaking for the first time, and one minute, speaking for the second time (debate on all items on the agenda - pending the discussion of the agenda). Please open a section on the procedure. Mr Feldman, are you going to talk about or against? Please turn on the microphone for Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U113	I will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U114	Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U115	Hello, honourable Members! Dear colleagues, I am the first signatory to this application, which is linked to the fact that, as we know, there is now an emergency situation not only in the country as a whole, but also... There is also another emergency: in the health sector. And we need to stimulate dynamic work as quickly as possible and in every way, given that there is not only this sitting but another sitting already convened and that at the end of this sitting there is... It is imperative that we come to items 37 and 38 on the agenda. In particular, it is a draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 864/Lp13) and draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 861/Lp13); there are a great many different proposals - 69 proposals in total in the first and 38 proposals in the second draft law. In view of the tense situation and, of course, without excluding the possibility that this sitting could not be held until today, as it says, naturally, and should continue this sitting, perhaps another day (or tomorrow), I call for the mobilisation and dynamic approach to this whole debate today. With regard to a normal sitting, where there are various issues, it is perhaps an unconventional approach, because usually we are discussing the time of the debate when... We discussed when they were... it was, for example, an administrative territorial reform (ATR), which was one such specific, very, very, very long, long issue, and, for example, a budget, which was also one big issue, but in this case, of course, very different topics... perhaps there may also be topics that would not have been the subject of a debate at all, but... That is simply to mobilise all Members in some way; I will also try to speak as quickly as possible and as little as possible. I call on my colleagues, both in the political groups and in the coalition, to mobilise as much as possible and to make this parliamentary sitting dynamic so that we can get to the agenda items 37 and 38, namely, up to both draft laws, which provide for substantive amendments to the laws necessary to overcome the Covid-19 crisis, and which must therefore be supported. In this context, I call for support for this application, namely this proposal on the timing of the debate. I think it is possible to say virtually any idea in three minutes. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U116	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U117	I have applied to say 'no' to such a proposal because, well, it's unusual to hear about what the Saeima's work should be. If you, honourable colleagues from the coalition, want to see a dynamic job, then do the right homework! Towards high-quality draft laws that we can quickly approve here - those on which you have taken part in the debate and clearly explain your questions quickly! Then we would move forward much more quickly. If you do not, then the result is that there are a lot to discuss here and many questions remain unanswered, even if they are repeatedly asked. This is a very specific practice that is currently being introduced - to consider quality as a work of the Saeima where there is no debate. If it really had been done in the quality of domestic work, then it could really have done so - when everything has already been debated, everything is clear to everyone and we can vote. But if not? On the contrary, the quality and dynamic work of the Saeima is when there comes to debate and opinions, they are discussed and the best possible solutions are chosen. Otherwise, it is no longer democracy. Otherwise, Latvia does not work as a democratic state. What happens in this case... we can see this: the Saeima is simply turning into a fiction, a place where it simply legitimises decisions taken by political cartels, where the public has no right to know about them, has no right to judge, and Members are not entitled to debate, because, you see, the political cartel has decided something and must therefore do so. If, on the other hand, you have really understood now that these issues, which have been mentioned in connection with the communion crisis, are important, then make another extraordinary sitting - there is no problem with doing so. It was a long break. During this break, you could call the Saeima Bureau and decide on a new sitting, and we could stop this sitting and look at issues that are topical, but you can't debate now, under the pretext of this, try to hide some other things. For example, today there will be a demand for an OIC. What about this request, on which it would normally be necessary to have a debate for at least 15 minutes... Why will it have to be debated in three minutes?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's a feeling that there's been some sort of thing in a coalition - that one is covered and the other is now covered. Says, well, let's go now! Colleagues, I do not support the order of such cases, so I call for us to stick to the timetable that is in place and give us the opportunity to have a qualitative debate here. After all, if Latvia really is a democratic republic in which power belongs to the people of Latvia and not to the political clique (the Sound Break.) ... then it is necessary to respect the framework of the rights that have been created. And if there really is something urgent, then what problem for you is to call another emergency sitting? Put this on its agenda so that we can look at it right away, without waiting for it to be on agenda item 30! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U118	One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion by Mr Feldman, Mr Riekstina, Mr Pucena, Mr Dzintara, Mr Jurša, Mr Chakša, Mr Budriķis, Ms Muižniece, Mr Znotiņš and Ms Zaļe-Grosa - to set the time for the debate at the second extraordinary sitting on 17 December: three minutes, speaking for the first time, one minute, speaking for the second time (debate on all items on the agenda - until the agenda of the sitting)! Please, let's vote! For - 56, against - 28, refrains - 1. The proposal is supported. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. And continue with the draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Act”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U119	Colleagues! At second reading, we will consider the draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Law” (No. 742/Lp13). Two proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to amend and supplement the statutory provision in order to allow measures to contain African swine fever to be taken until such time as Latvia is granted African swine fever-free status. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U121	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This, taking into account the comments of the Legal Commission, requires that, at the time of Latvia obtaining the status of a country free of African swine fever, it be notified in the Official Journal of Latvia. and make the necessary amendments to repeal the relevant transitional provisions. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U123	I call for support for the draft law on the amendments to the Hunting Act, second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U124	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Law” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Sweden on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Commission looked at the draft law “On the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments” at second reading. No proposals were received from the Commission for the second reading. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U126	Please call me! We will vote on draft law on the conclusion of the second, final reading of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Sweden on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investment! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between Member States of the European Union. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U127	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, At its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined draft law on the conclusion of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union at second reading. No proposals were received within the deadline set for the second reading, therefore, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft laws at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U128	Please call me! Let us vote on the Agreement on the Termination of Bilateral Investment Agreements between the Member States of the European Union! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the Configuration of the Baltic Airspace Observation Network and Control System”. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U129	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission looked at the draft law “On the Agreement on Configuration of the Baltic Airspace Observation Network and Control System of the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania” at second reading. No proposals were received from the Commission for the second reading. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the Configuration of the Baltic Airspace Observation Network and Control System” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U130	Hello, dear colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” at third reading. The Commission has received 16 proposals. 1. - the proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis. This applies to the operation of the law, it is supplemented there – “state or municipal institution”... So, medical... and also ‘medical assistants employed by these institutions’, as well as ‘judicial medical experts employed at the National Judicial Medical Expertise Centre or drivers of the Emergency Medical Emergency Response Team’. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U132	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele, which intends to supplement the draft law with a new Article 2. So here is also a supplement - "or medical assistants". The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U134	Thank you. 3. - the proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis. The words “medical assistants” and “judicial medical experts employed at the National Judicial Medical Expertise Centre” are also added here. That is the sixth paragraph of Section 4 of the Law. The Commission is supported by a corresponding change in numbering. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U136	4. - the proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which provides for the replacement of the number ‘1.77’ in Article 6.1, second paragraph, point 12 of the Law, with the number ‘1.947’. This applies to the monthly salary of the judge, and in this particular case it is the remuneration of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U138	5. - the proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, which provides for the addition of the second paragraph of Section 11 after the words “Constitution Courts” with the words “High Courts”. This also applies to the monthly salaries of public officials. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U140	6. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele, which intends to supplement the draft law with a new Article 4. So the version is added - there is also talk about medical assistants, court medical experts employed at the National Judicial Medical Expertise Centre. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U142	7. - the proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, which provides for the addition of the first sentence of paragraph 1.1 of Article 14 after the words “consultation of judges” and the word “discipline court”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U144	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, which provides for the addition of the second sentence of paragraph 1.1 of Article 14, after the words ‘Chairman of the Judicial Disciplinary Board’, with the words ‘Chairman of the Disciplinary Court’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U146	9. - the proposal of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, which provides for the addition of the fourth part of Section 15 of the Law after the words “with the exception of the Judge of the Constitutional Court” with the words “and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court”. This therefore applies to the special premium. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U148	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - That's Mr. Kaspars's proposal. It provides for the addition of a new article in the following wording: ‘In the tenth paragraph of Article 15 of the Law: to replace the number ‘50’ by ‘10’; to replace the number ‘50’ by ‘5’.’ This shall apply to the State Auditor General, who receives an allowance of 50 per cent of his monthly salary for the performance of the duties of the Chairman of the State Audit Office. And also a member of the Council of the State Audit Office receives a supplement of 50 per cent of his monthly salary for the performance of duties of the Director of the Audit Department of the State Audit Office.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U149	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U150	Hello, everyone here! The tenth paragraph of Article 15 “Special premium” provides that the Auditor General shall have a supplement – 50 per cent of the monthly salary fixed for him – for the performance of the duties of the Chairman of the State Audit Council, and for the member of the Board – 50 per cent for the performance of the duties of the Director of the Audit Department of the State Audit. The nature of the special allowances is to reward officials whose work involves a special risk, the degree of special service. The judges and prosecutors referred to in this Article shall also be included in the category of officials referred to in this Article, which shall be consistent with the meaning of Article 15, but they shall be entitled to a supplement of 10 per cent of the monthly salary on condition that they have a record of not less than 10 years and a positive opinion. The main activity of the State Audit Office is the carrying out of audits, while the State Audit Office Council approves the operational strategy of the State Audit Office, annual work plans, budgets... and other activities. These duties, which fall within the operational competence of the management of each institution, shall be subject to an additional monthly allowance of 50 per cent for the State auditors and members of the council, integrating them as part of the salary for the connection of the positions of actual coverage. The conformity of such a premium with the meaning of Article 15 ‘Special premium’ is questionable and the amount thereof, 50 per cent, is unfair to the other categories of posts laid down in that Article which correspond to the meaning of this Article. The current regulation for the State Audit Office... and the rate of the special premium granted to the members of the council – 50 per cent – is disproportionately high, therefore amendments to be made to Section 15, paragraph 10 of the Law and the special premium shall be reduced to the state auditors by establishing that it is not more than 10 per cent of the monthly salary established for the performance of the chairman of the State Audit Council, but to the member of the council – not more than five per cent of the monthly salary established for the performance of the director of the Audit Department of the State Audit. I would like to remind you that in 2014, when this proposal was initiated on the recommendation of the Auditor General, the Commission of State Administration and Local Government did not support it before the third reading. Similarly, at this commission meeting, two were against, one for and the other abstained. So... in this case... This is a contentious proposal. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Auditor General admitted in the sitting that this law contains a brother who should be corrected. Likewise, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima acknowledged that this is a brother. The State Chancellery also acknowledged that this is a brother that should be corrected. These premiums should be applied by means of a single remuneration law. So... I would like to mention to you that this looks twofold at the moment on the part of the State Audit Office, acknowledging itself that this is a brother that should be corrected. I have also come across in the Commission with the fact that the State Audit Office itself mentions that it is necessary to correct various types of laws when dealing with others... other public bodies. I therefore call on Members to correct this law and to support my proposal. As I said, this is a brother, as the State Audit Office itself has also emphasised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U151	Members do not want to debate any more. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - That's Mr. Kaspars Gürgen's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 15, for - 44, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U152	Yes, colleagues! 11. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. It provides for the addition of a new article to the law in the following wording: “Member of the Cabinet of Ministers and its spouse are entitled to compensation for the parking of vehicles in paid car parks according to the expenditure shown.” There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U153	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U154	Dear colleagues, This proposal, however strange it may be, is aimed at slightly improving the work of the Cabinet. As we have seen, one minister - now a former minister - Juris Pūce was the one who, for a very long time, employed his mind with the way in which he could get this pass... for him or his spouse to be able to perform his or her duties more conveniently. Very long time was probably spent on this process, because what happened to the Minister's direct responsibilities - we are talking about administrative territorial reform - is really... as we have heard today, Mr Levi has also condemned it - the inefficiency and undemocratic nature of this process. So Minister Puce, instead of really doing his direct responsibilities, regrettably devoted time to getting his own comfort right. I also think that what followed after this disgusting of the Minister had to resign and all the staff was transferred and transferred to both the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers... it pays in principle a certain amount to the public budget. And so, in my opinion... In order to maintain the capacity of ministers, their reasonableness and in order to preserve the actual minimal, respectful public appearance of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, I propose that we be able to take care of the ministers so that they no longer enter into situations in which they are apparently driven by different circumstances. Since, in fact, the assessment of the Cabinet of Ministers by the community has reached the lowest point of time, so that it doesn't fall even lower, so that maybe we don't have a regular pump with another minister, who will be able to arrange a pass for himself or his spouse or his/her spouse (I don't know in what relationship they all live there), my proposal is: Well, since we can afford it, we have a lot of money, we can also rob ministers of some money so that they can freely leave their car anywhere they want without having to pass a pass from the Riga City Council... to their wives, men... That, I think, will solve at least the issue of public trust in our honourable ministers. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U155	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U156	Hello! This proposal by Julia Stepanenko is to tell the public how it is - it is designed to prevent ministers from stealing small... Well, on parking pass... Therefore, it is quite logical – for the work of the ministers to go more smoothly so that they can work for the people and society as a whole, it is not only the Riga City Council that needs to allocate the pass... If there's a friend in there... Pucem... or another minister, but everyone. And also for the wives. ( It is a pity that this circle of creatures is not wider!) Then ministers will have more time to think about the people. And that, let's say, at first it seems like... that ministers already have a lot of it... big wages and so on... However, I would suggest that we think more deeply. Look at Puce's come. There were problems, stress, had to set the pass. How much time was consumed on all of this! What, though, could have been done at that time? Some purchases of waste could have been organised properly, were able to resolve climate-neutrality issues there, and everything would have been fine, would not have been for the new minister to do so now. Well, then, to the new minister, so that we do not get into the same situation, in principle, we give it right away, and peace! Therefore, dear society, if you have any other ideas so that ministers don't steal like that -- baby -- safely submit them! We Members will move them forward, because we also want our ministers to work in the interests of the Latvian people. Unfortunately, this is not happening at the moment; unfortunately, they are working in some incomprehensible interest, they are only working for... It does not really understand what they are working for, for their sponsors or for something like that, but it is certainly not for society, as we see from all the successive votes. Votes regularly, constant, every week are only against society. Let us start by doing so - let us start treating the ministers well, and then perhaps the ministers will finally start treating us well. Now let's start with the passes, then let's go further, maybe there's something... Give me the cars, something else... Let’s say, things that a person needs every day to keep his mind calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U157	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U158	Yeah... Colleagues, I've been... I will certainly withdraw my proposal after this debate, but it is, of course, possible to debate this proposal. I believe that perhaps many of my fellow Members and also the public who are watching this sitting at the moment seem to me to have not understood this irony a bit. What I want to say... I think that we need to train all the people who lied, all the ministers, all the Members who have ever lied in this way, in a shameless way. Only in this way, with only such irony and such attitude, can we light up all of this - all the lies that we see and that we will see in the future. So, honourable colleagues, yes, the reputation of ministers must be fought and if they cannot do it themselves...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U159	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U160	I'd like to... I would like to ask, after the procedure, for the opportunity for Julija Stepanenko to speak - or, as she said, she withdraws... whether or not to withdraw the proposal. But if we are talking about the substance of the proposal, I do not think it is right to write proposals to one individual. Already at the meeting of the Commission, when looking at this proposal, it became clear that this proposal had been written by Juris Pucem or by the next Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, on the basis of the situation that we all have already looked at extensively... in respect of these transmissions. Such an approach that writes proposals or draft laws for one person is not really acceptable, and such practices should be avoided. This was also pointed out by the Legal Office: if a problem exists, it needs to be dealt with more systematically. This specific proposal comes from a single case, which is no longer relevant at present, at least as it sounds. If we would like to introduce such a system, much more officials would have to be involved, and I think we could consult with the Riga City Council and ask their views on the new law of local governments - how they look at the fact that the Riga officials would provide senior officials with the opportunity to put private cars where they want to. And in this case... I understand this argument that, indeed, senior officials would then have more time to think about the duties they carry out. And I can only regret that we have had the case that senior officials use such privileges in good faith or have at least tried to use them. This is by no means in favour. That's why I... after the procedure... invite... I would like to find an understanding as to whether or not Mrs Stepanenko withdraws the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U161	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U162	In the context of this proposal, I think Juris Puce could get up and tell you something. He's got a good joke about the passes. But Victor Valainis, I think I understand, is not satisfied that the proposal is intended... Whereas only ministers. He must have wanted Members of the Saeima to be mentioned there too - and not only positions, but also opposition... Mr. Valaiņš, I would also like to agree that we would vote so that I, my wife and everyone else have these passes, but not to exaggerate too. Perhaps, at the beginning, it will be enough for the ministers to be, because they are having difficulties at the moment - very important, essential decisions to be taken for the benefit of society. What are we, Members? We're not making such a special decision, we're just reconfirming! So, I think, systemically everything is right. Let's start with the ministers! If this practice goes through, then we can expand even more - well, not just through... Maybe there's something else you can do for yourself... grant free of charge to officials.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U163	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U164	I... after the procedure... I would like to understand whether Julia Stepanenko withdraws or does not withdraw this proposal if this is possible in some way, because she mentioned this possibility in her speech. But in response to Mr Gobzem, I think this is the beginning... what Mrs. Julia Stepanenko started... It is not really right, because if we're talking about ministers, the ministers are still... It would be difficult to name at least one minister who would have given up the private driver who is due to the ministers. I really... It is difficult for me to imagine this need why a minister would need something similar. Rather, other categories of officials should be assessed, which perhaps should... For example, posters have these post offices. Maybe social workers need to go to their clients... they have so little wages... to home care... Maybe we should give them... Is that so? This issue should therefore be kept open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U165	I closed the debate. Please open a section on the procedure. I ask my fellow Member Julia Stepanenko to apply. Yes, you are. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U166	Thank you. Colleagues! Of course, I withdrew my proposal. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U167	Thank you. The debate has therefore been closed and the proposal has been withdrawn. For the Commission... Is that so? Please! Proposal No 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U168	Colleagues, 12. - the proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which provides for the exclusion of Article 8 of the draft law. This concerns transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U170	13. - the proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which intends to supplement the draft law with a new article. This applies to Annex 2 to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. The maximum monthly salary group is changed accordingly - from ‘8’ to ‘14’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U172	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government relating to Annex 3 of the Law on Compensation of Here the maximum monthly salary is changed from “no more than 450” to “no more than 500”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U174	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It provides for the addition of a new Article to the draft law in the following wording: ‘Declare Annex 4, paragraph 16 in the following version...’. This also varies from ‘no more than 450’ to ‘no more than 500’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U176	And 16, last one, is the proposal of the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. It provides for supplementing the draft law with an indication of the entry into force of the law in the following wording: ‘The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U178	Thank you. I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U179	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U180	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues and colleagues! The viewers and the listeners! Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” refers to reduced rates of excise duty on fuel, abolition of reduced rates and fixing of minimum rates of excise duty on certain products. For the third reading, the Commission made two proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Commission which is technical (change in numbering). The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U182	The proposal is about the entry into force of the law. It provides that the law shall enter into force on 1 February 2021. In the Commission, this proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U184	I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U185	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Judges”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U186	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs examined before the third reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Judges’ Pensions”. No proposals were submitted for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U187	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service Pensions” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Act on Service Pensions for Military Persons’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U188	Hello, Madam President. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions for Military Persons”. No proposals have been submitted. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U189	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Act on Service Pensions for Military Persons in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on the Service of Diplomas’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Eva Mārtuza. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U190	Hello, colleagues! The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs examined and supported the third reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Diploma Service Pensions Act. No proposals for third reading have been tabled. Please support and vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U191	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Diploma Service Pensions Act, third, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law “On service pensions for employees with special service grades” of the Ministry of the Interior”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U192	The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the third reading draft law “Amendments to the law “On service pensions for employees with special service grades” of the Ministry of the Interior. No proposals have been submitted. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the third final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U193	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On service pensions for system employees of the Ministry of the Interior with special service grades””! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Service of Professional Orchestras, choirs, concert organisations, theatres and circus artists and the Law on the Allowance of Ballet Artists for Creative Works”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Eva Mārtuza. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U194	Good afternoon, colleagues! The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs examined and supported the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Allowance of Professional Orchestras, choirs, concert organisations, theatres and circus artists for Creative Works”. No proposals for third reading have been tabled. Please support and vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U195	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Compensation of Professional Orchestras, choirs, concert organisations, theatres and circus artists and ballet artists for Creative Works” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau officials’ retirement pension law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U196	Good afternoon, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs examined before the third reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Office Officials on Corruption Prevention and Combating Corruption”. No proposals were submitted for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U197	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Corruption Prevention and Combating Office Officials” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U198	The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the third, final, reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions”. No proposals have been submitted. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U199	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutors’ Service Pensions Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U200	The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs examined before the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutors’ Service Pensions Law”. No proposals were submitted for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U201	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutors Service Pensions Law” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Emergency Medical Assistance in the Field of Service of Emergency Medical Assistance”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Eva Mārtuza. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U202	Colleagues! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs supported the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Emergency Medical Assistance in the Field of Pensions of Employees involved in Emergency Medical Assistance”. No proposals have been submitted. Please vote for the bill in the third, final, reading Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U203	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on retirement pensions of staff involved in the provision of emergency medical care services” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on compulsory social insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, The Social and Labour Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” before the third reading. No proposal was received for the third reading. In the Commission, the draft law was supported. Please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U205	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U206	Dear colleagues, At the conclusion of the set of laws on pensions, the Social and Labour Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State Pensions” before the third, final, reading. No proposals were received for the third reading. I invite you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U207	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Criminal Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U208	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” (No. 357 Lp13). It should be said that these two draft laws - both amendments to the Criminal Law and amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law - were already included once on the Saeima's agenda, but because of the Sub-Commission on Criminal Law Policy... In view of the sub-committee, however, it was asked to return these draft laws to the sub-committee and further to the Legal Commission in order to further clarify certain issues relating to these two draft laws. I would remind you that this particular draft law... It is intended to reform the criminal responsibility of minors by criminalising minors only in certain cases, thus reducing the number of juvenile offenders and promoting a more successful integration of young people into society as well as into the labour market. The draft law also includes amendments aimed at improving the system of criminal penalties as a whole, i.e. establishing supervision of probation as a basic penalty, replacing forced labour with public work. I'll also remind you that the draft law... The entry into force of the law is scheduled for 1 January 2022. For the first time to the third reading this draft law was reviewed at the Legal Commission on 22 September, but then... The draft law has now been re-examined on 9 December. All in all... Both for the September 22nd and the December 9th sitting... Overall, 11 proposals were submitted for this draft law. 1. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which sets out and supplements the procedure for replacing probationary supervision by deprivation of liberty in the event of a person failing to comply without justification with the obligations laid down by the law on the enforcement of criminal penalties or by the institution of execution of the sentence. Replacement takes place in accordance with the principle that, for example, one probationary day is taken as one day of deprivation of liberty. The proposal provides that probationary supervision is to be replaced by deprivation of liberty depending on the classification of criminal offences by detailing the principle already supported at second reading, namely three levels of detail, each with time limits: not more than three months if probationary supervision is established as a criminal offence; not more than three years if probationary supervision is established as a less serious crime; not more than five years if probationary supervision is established as a serious or particularly serious crime. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U210	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is planned to supplement Article 50 of the Law “Sanction for Several Crimes” with a new paragraph 4.1. The proposal provides, for example, that persons who have committed two or more offences... if they're together... the qualifications are similar or the same, then there is the possibility of a penalty for each criminal offence... It's like... i.e. small amounts of public work is being applied to theft, and some other crime - just the same thing... Also - public work. This proposal provides for a procedure for action to be taken in such a situation, namely linking them as a final penalty. The proposal also provides that, in such a case, the total amount or time of the penalty may exceed, but not exceed, the maximum amount or time allowed for the type of penalty in question. Such regulation is more favourable for a person, since otherwise the additional penalty would be enforceable separately from the basic penalty. The Commission also supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U211	And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U212	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. It is planned to supplement Article 52 of the Law “Rules for the addition and replacement of penalties” with paragraph 2.3, by stating that if several criminal offences have been the subject of a single judgment or several judgments - supervision of probation and deprivation of liberty, which has not been established in a condition and the period of which does not exceed five years in total -, the penalty - supervision of probation - shall be carried out independently. In such cases, the exercise of probationary supervision shall commence after the sentence has been served. This proposal was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U214	Colleagues, 4. - a proposal from the Legal Commission of a editorial nature. It replaces the words ‘the National Probation Service’ with the words ‘the execution authorities’. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U215	And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U216	5. - The legal commission's proposal. It is also a technical proposal, starting with a chapter on the specifics of juvenile criminal responsibility. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U218	6. - a proposal from the Legal Commission of a editorial nature. It specifies in the title of the article the end of the word, from ‘the minor’ to ‘the minor’. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U220	And now, colleagues, we actually come to those proposals that mainly raised concerns about the sub-committee and that were the reason why the sub-committee decided to go back to looking at this draft law and looking at the next draft law. So... The proposal took the form of a proposal from the Legal Commission. This in fact provides for clarification of Articles 64 and 65, while Article 64 ‘Payment of minors’ remains, as is the case, while Article 65 retains the fine which was removed at second reading. And the draft law was originally proposed to abandon it. And the commission added to the article... with the prosecutor's prescription... for fine as one of the penalties that... the article did not, as appropriate, follow the prosecution of the prosecutors... The Commission had a wide-ranging debate on this at all. The representative of the Ministry of Justice Ilona Kronberga, justifying the Ministry of Justice's unwillingness to return to anticipating a fine in this draft law, noted that, from the point of view of restructuring, the fine does not give minors any opportunity to correct. And that's not, in her view and in her opinion of the ministry, in the best interests of the child. The representative of the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Rutkovska, mentioned as an argument that the fine gives the impression that the child can buy back from the responsibility. On the other hand, Mr Judin, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Criminal Law Policy, pointed out that the punishment was rare, but that there was a need, and explained that it was originally intended to be excluded because it was considered inappropriate for a common system. Without prioritising the fine as a priority, Mr Judine called for it to be left behind on the grounds that it will be a flexible option in the choice of the penalty and will allow for effective enforcement of these penalties. And the representatives of the public prosecutor's office pointed out that, in the event of a fine being abolished, another penalty should be included in the hierarchy of penalties - the lowest one - a penalty which is not currently available. Having assessed all these considerations, the panel agreed with the head of the sub-committee and decided to support this proposal, thus maintaining a fine for minors as one of the types of punishment. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U221	Thank you. Let us start a debate on this proposal. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U222	Hello, colleagues! In no case may a fine be and must not be a very important penalty for minors. And when it comes to the reform of criminal responsibility, of course, it is important... First of all, it is important to think about alternative solutions. We need to think about how to remove a child from criminal justice and how to deal with it. In particular, we should think about inciting measures, alternative criminal penalties. But now we see that in this draft law, the withdrawal of the fine was one of the manifestations of the reform. In my study of the matter, I have managed to detect cases where the imposition of a fine was necessary, the punishment was appropriate and justified myself. That is, the situation. As a minor, a person committed an offence. When he was tried, he already reached the age of 18, he found work abroad, he wanted to work, and he asked himself to impose a fine on him, because otherwise he should stay in Latvia, he would lose his job. And that's one example. And there are, of course, few such cases. And when I think about imposing penalties, I call on the judges not to look directly at the fine and not to apply it frequently. But if this type of punishment is in the penalty system, then there is a possibility that... Perhaps one in 100 or 200 cases will be able to apply it. So... That is exactly what we were discussing, and there were opinions that it should not be left... After all, however, the majority has been in favour of maintaining the sentence, but only in rare cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U223	Thank you, Mr. Judin. I closed the debate. No one has requested a vote. Consequently, Members support the 7th proposal submitted by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U224	Colleagues! Proposal No 8 is also a proposal from the Legal Commission. And since Article 66 was left, it is necessary to change the numbering of the other articles by returning the condition of a minor's conditional conviction. So both fine and conditional conviction - these are, in fact, the types of punishment that returned to this draft law after a re-examination by the Commission. And I would remind you that Mrs Kronberga, representative of the Ministry of Justice, also objected to this conditional conviction, pointing out that conditional conviction can, in her view, lead to a place of imprisonment sooner. And that, in turn, did not agree with Mr. Judin, saying that there should be as wide a range of options and flexibility in the choice of penalties as possible, so as not to cause more harm to the minor... whether, if it is not possible to choose from softer penalties. The diversity of penalties and the effectiveness of penalties - this was an issue on which there was a very wide discussion, these two values were set against. In fact, it was also possible to hear from the Ministry of Justice that all this reform of the juvenile penalty reform has failed... In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. And of these four elements... death penalty... refusal of death penalty, refusal of conditional conviction... Monitoring of probation as reasonable... and educative means of coercion... There are only two left. But the Commission was therefore supported... Also the opinion of the Head of the Sub-Commission on Criminal Law Policy... The fact that this type of punishment must nevertheless be maintained is necessary. The Commission has therefore supported this proposal in its actual form.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U225	Members have not applied for a debate on this proposal, so they agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U226	9. - The legal commission's proposal. It is purely technical in nature, linked to the exclusion from the criminal law of Article 189 ‘Imprehensive and careless protection of property’. All references to this Article should therefore be deleted.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U228	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Commission, which is also of a technical nature. This is linked to Article 231.1 (consciously false notification of the explosive). Now there are several parts of this article. Therefore, reference to this Article should be made to the paragraphs of this Article. It is therefore, yes, a technical proposal. The Commission has, of course, supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U230	And finally, colleagues, 11. - The legal commission's proposal. It is also a reference to the first paragraph of Article 260, which is no longer necessary because that Article is excluded. And that's a article about... ‘Failure of road traffic rules and vehicle operating rules’. The first paragraph of this Article shall cease to apply. It is therefore a technical proposal. It has been developed and supported by the Commission. All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, colleagues, I call on you to support the draft law on the third, final reading of the Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U231	Thank you. Members agree with the 11th proposal. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law amending the Criminal Law, third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. See the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U232	Dear colleagues, As I said, this draft law - together with the previous draft law - returned to the Commission and now we are looking at it at final reading. It was also linked to the reform of juvenile criminal responsibility... and... Like the previous draft law... implementation of this reform has been ensured, with appropriate amendments. Overall, the draft law contains three appropriate proposals, all of which are those drawn up by the Legal Commission. 1. - a proposal of a technical nature. It's connected... refusal to delete Article 647 — Execution of penalties following the imposition of educational measures... So... Whereas it was decided to stay with this article, then... so... This proposal provides that the article is no longer to be deleted from the draft law. The Commission, which drafted the proposal, has, of course, also supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U234	Colleagues! The next, second, is also a proposal from the Legal Commission. This is because the transitional provisions have to be abolished here... This is... Rejection of Article 647... as a deleted article. This article therefore remains. That is why this proposal has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U236	And finally, the third proposal, which, in the same way, is technically linked to the non-exclusion of Article 647. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U237	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U238	And so finally, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on you to support the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U239	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Liability Insurance of Owners of Land Vehicles”, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U240	Dear colleagues, Amendments to the OCTA Act. Six proposals have been tabled, one better than the other. Proposal No 1 has been tabled by a member of the Board of Directors, who proposes that the standard agreement be supplemented... insurance term not only, as was - for three, six, nine and 12 months - but also only for a month. I invite you to support me. — Sound Break. ... Thus included in proposal 2. I call on you to abstain or vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U241	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U242	Dear Members of the Committee. The current arrangements provide for the conclusion of a standard insurance contract for three, six, nine or 12 months. This proposal is important as the summer and autumn seasons have become longer as climatic conditions change. In more than half of the cases, the owners insure motorcycles for six months - until the end of September, however, the weather conditions are increasingly appropriate to continue the season longer. However, in that case, the policy must be bought for three months - until the new year, that is, until about December - and therefore overpaid for two months in insurance premiums. An extension of the ban by month would be a good solution for seasonal extension and would reduce the number of cases where unscrupulous drivers choose to drive without OCTA. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this proposal would also have a positive effect on agricultural machinery. As an example, we can mention the combine owners, because not everyone uses these vehicles, say, for three months; one month is enough. Just like... Building transport, water transport and, of course, other means of transport can also be counted. The main problem, however, is this OCTA law, which, of course, has not yet been amended... But I'd definitely do it next time... the fact that vehicle owners, let us say so, have difficulties ending this OCTA contract. Somehow this is the case: if you have sold this vehicle... Not all vehicle owners go to write this application right away to the insurer in question - to recover money. And, as we know, in order to recover money, it is applied... five per cent shall be deducted from this amount. Although, of course, you can buy the next policy... But... I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a topical problem, because everyone with a vehicle... You can definitely go to your insurer or website to try to find this tool as you can stop your policy and, say so, recover this money. Even though now, CSDD... For example, when you sell your vehicle, you automatically go to the Office of Vehicle Insurers of Latvia, but you still have to write an application yourself, and from that date only you can recover, let us say, money. There are many things that should be corrected there are many uncertainties. There is a feeling that insurers are being lobbying, and one of the reasons I want to mention is this directive, on which... insisted that now Europe is moving to compulsory insurance, so say, 24 hours a day. I would certainly like to see what our attitude as Latvian citizens would be if politicians wanted to push this issue on the agenda, that, for example, for the same motorcycle that you are standing in the garage in winter, you will have to pay insurance, as well as for the cabriolet if you are standing... I'm sorry, you can extend it, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U243	The debate period has been extended.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U244	So this directive that you are trying to drive is the cleanest, in my opinion, the insurers' lobby, because it is wrong to ask you to insure the vehicle that you are not using it. So my proposal... and those proposals, when this law will once again be opened, will be aimed at making it easier for owners to recover these money... and also easier to insure... And there are certainly many more issues that need to be addressed... for the same bonus classes... But now... For the time being, I call on Members to support this proposal, because I have listed many, let us say, positive trends that we could derive from all this if we supported this proposal. Thank you. And, as Mr. Kirstein also said, with this... my personal proposal is rejected, but I support the Commission's proposal, which has been improved and also provides for one month's insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U245	Name of Member Anita Muižniece. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U246	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U247	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U248	Hello, Madam President and colleagues! As early as second reading, when Mr Ģirgen expressed this idea of a possible submission of such a norm for the first time, I expressed my opinion that, in my view, it would not be acceptable. And this time I'll explain why. First (and foremost) because it is the purest populism. And where else is the fact that it is not normal and it is not good practice to submit conceptual proposals to the third reading, and without special study and discussion, to support them only because of the will, in the language of the people, forgive, to jump on some topical topic right now! Secondly, the 30-day rule runs counter to what has already been said... Changes to the European Directive related to decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Indeed, the whole of Europe is now moving towards having to be insured at all times with the moment a vehicle is recognised as valid for road traffic. We have also discussed this in the Committee on European Affairs for a long time. And we've also achieved that... In principle, it is currently the idea that seasonal vehicles, including motorcycles, cabotage vehicles and agricultural machinery, may not be affected. However, as you know, Mr Girgen has essentially argued for this proposal in relation to motorcycles. I do not know, of course, whether Member Ģirgen is driving his motorcycle himself, and that is not particularly important either, but I can mention from my personal experience the fact that... We are talking, in principle, about a maximum of seven euros of populist proposals, which will, in fact, allow one small part of the population to rejoice for a short while without knowing for themselves that they have been deceived, but will cause headaches later on, both for drivers who forget to buy it for one month, then to renew and receive a penalty, and for insurers who will now have to change their systems... being well aware that for a few months populists will be able to be proud of what has been achieved, but with the implementation of the directive already mentioned, these (six) "happiness" will come to an end. And then the same as those who at first rejoice and praise the Girgen, and the rest, as if they were bad, who would need to break their rule. Nor is the fact that the ManaBals platform has the same initiative, which has collected only 521 signatures within four months and is obviously not relevant to the drivers themselves. Moreover, in my view, a motorcycle - this is an extra, not a primary necessity. It seems to me that if you can buy adequate equipment, which costs some thousands of euros, then the police will also cost 40 euros... do not have problems buying for a period of nine months. And every motorist is motivated to buy a policy for exactly nine months a year, because then also bonus-malus-class bills... and the policy becomes increasingly cheaper with each year (of course, if it does not get into some kind of crash due to its own fault). We will not be naive and understand that this change in order for insurers to adapt will also take place at our expense, at the expense of all vehicle owners, and also at our expense... to correct this system once again when the Directive is adopted. Well, not dear Members, the task of populism! In particular, responsibility from members of the coalition... Your task is to read accordingly... offer norms that match logic and succession and common sense rather than self-promotion or PR measures, realizing that they are neither sustainable nor demanded and, if implemented, sometime will be abolished. I call for both this proposal and the next one to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U249	Thank you. And at this point, we are putting an end to the debate. Time to break. There is only a record of the presence of Members. Please check-in mode!... And registration is complete. We meet at 3.30 a.m. Thank you for your work. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U250	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. Member Jūlija Stepanenko will speak about the procedure. Please activate the section on the procedure! The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U251	Thank you. Colleagues! I have been waiting for this opportunity for some time, but it would now be my reply to Mr Feldman's wish to reduce the time for the debate. As we know, the time for the debate has now been reduced, despite the fact that we are faced with the adoption of two really very important laws - the Covide law. If Mr Feldman has this desire to end the sitting more quickly to run time in the race, because soon there will be a pilot, as we understand, then his group may simply write a list of wishes... what should be bought, and then let Mr. Feldman go so that he buys everything on behalf of the political group. But you're sitting...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U252	So is there any real proposal, talking about the procedure?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U253	This is a proposal for a procedure - you are not sitting fast, but to continue working. If anyone needs to go to the store...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U254	Thank you. So let's keep sitting. Agenda... Let me remind you, colleagues, that we are still working on the bill... Please agenda... by the third reading of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Owners of Land Vehicles’. And we shall continue the debate on proposal 1. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U255	Dear colleagues, I would like to call on you to support Mr Girgen's proposal. What we heard from Mrs Muižniece really caused some misunderstanding, because... I really don't know how... What was it about responding to a colleague's proposal? In my opinion, each Member is entitled to submit proposals and to describe the meaning and motivation of a Member's proposal. He understands why he did it. In my opinion, this is unacceptable: on the part of my fellow Members, try in some way to lie and insult colleagues in populism. If we are talking about these seasonal vehicles, mentioned by Mrs Muižniece, then I have to remind you that in fact, in the European Commission for European Affairs, we really do have to join forces, we can say that on the Latvian side, this proposal has been made for seasonal vehicles, because, as we know, a directive is being prepared which will make it compulsory to also insure vehicles in garages, regardless of whether they are being used all year round or not. If we are talking about lighters and motorcycles and tractors, then I have to remind Mrs Muižniece that in principle I was the one who raised everyone in the European Commission for European Affairs, because a little more, a few more seconds, and this directive would have gone without proposals from Latvia. It's very good that we can do it! And you, Mrs Muižniece, could have followed all these processes more closely. So that I really call for support for this proposal. And... Now we're not really jealous! I do not understand the attitude of colleagues. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U256	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U257	Yes, I have already said, so this is included in the next proposal. And I call for this either to abstain or to vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U258	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Ģürgen's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 8, for - 40, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U259	2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Hence, we are supported in the first place. - Mr Girgen's proposal, supplemented by the situation in the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U260	Members want to have a debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U261	Hello, fellow Members, again! I have already argued in principle in the previous speech why I am calling not to support both the previous proposal and this one. And if anyone is embarrassed by the fact that there is an addition to the seizures of the European Economic Area country or the Swiss Confederation... existing vehicles, then... It is, in fact, a technical detail where... it excludes the provision of paragraph 3 of that article and transfers it as part 1.1 exactly the same wording. So that it can be safely rejected and then submitted at some other time, and there will be no shave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U262	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U263	I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U264	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 39, for - 27, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U265	3. - Legal commission... 3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying... In fact, the words ‘bringings a child’ are replaced by the words ‘provides care for a child of...’. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U267	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission specifying the arrangements for reducing premium payments. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U269	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Similar, complementary to the transitional provisions... on amendments... on the entry into force of the amendments... in the transitional provisions...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U270	Thank you, colleagues. On the procedure. Just before this proposal is examined... Member Mārtiņš Steins has applied for a speech before considering proposal 5. Please enter a section on the procedure. Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U271	I no longer want to talk about the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U272	Thank you. So, Member Stein does not want to talk about the 5th proposal tabled by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please return to the proposal. Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U273	And six. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission supplementing the transitional provisions. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U274	Members want to have a debate. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U275	Yeah, thank you. Hello, colleagues! I will also call for this proposal to be rejected. Let me explain why. That is, because at second reading I and Krišjānis Feldman's proposal were supported, where... I had already submitted a very similar draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission last June; it is still lying in a drawer. It was the essence that also families with a disabled child... As with people with disabilities, the OCTA policy discount is currently being applied, as well as it would be appropriate for them. And we have just seen that it has been supported and incorporated. But what this, 6, proposal... in parallel to the fact that the deadline is also postponed to July 1st... I see absolutely no basis for this, because insurers and ministries responsible have known about this idea for at least one year and have been able to prepare in good time. What's embarrassing me is paragraph 24... the idea that people with disabilities should give up these reliefs in general, and it is the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to develop the procedure for granting these reliefs. Of course, on the one hand, it could be said that it is good, because perhaps some other compensatory mechanisms will be sought, but I would like to point out that, in negotiations with the Ministry of Finance, too, with insurers... So far, it has been said that this is wrong and that it simply has to end - this is a discount. Let us understand, however, that people with disabilities, especially those with reduced mobility, are often a vehicle, not a public transport or... I don't know... It is likely that public transport will be very, very difficult to reach... Let's say, in terms of money, it's just... the benefit may not be adequate. So I would very much urge you not to give up this relief. I'm here, for example... I very much hope that the opposition, too, could not support this... the exclusion of persons with disabilities in the future. So that I call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U276	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U277	Colleagues! Thank you to Mrs Muižniece for updating this topic and tabling the proposal. My colleagues and I, too, in the opposition, have unfortunately had this bitter experience with the work of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. We're in the drawer already... We can now compare time with time for whom the draft law rests longer in the drawer. We may have more than you. Neither do we expect any attention to be paid to the manager anymore. Although we wrote a letter, we did not receive any reply. Here, too, I would really like to be confused about this... Well, again... In my opinion, this revision of the order can really lead to us losing what we fought for here. I call on you, however, not to throw out all the good things that have been done. And I also call on you to listen really to Mrs Muižniece's words. So I call on you to support what Mrs Muižniece has just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U278	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U279	Yeah. There was a debate in the Commission on this matter, but a majority in the Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U280	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U281	I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U282	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U283	Good afternoon, fellow Members, again! Well, let's do it. Thus, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax”” at the third, final, reading. This draft law is also related to the next draft law that we will consider - Amendments to the Commercial Law. The aim of the two draft laws, I would like to remind you that, as the aim of the package, is to introduce a competitive framework for the purchase of capital shares, as well as to align the periods of holding of shares with international examples, thus facilitating the creation of new companies and also helping to contribute positively to the development of possible innovations in Latvia. 11 proposals were received for this specific draft law at third reading. 1. - The proposal from Member Rein Znotiņš. It shall be provided that income is not subject to personal income tax if the right to purchase shares is exercised not later than within six months from the termination of the employment relationship between the payer and the employer. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U284	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U285	I would ask you to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U286	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U287	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I'm so happy. As the rapporteur said, we have reached the third reading in the so-called share option tax package. And how did all of this come about? I want to remind you. More than a year earlier, while working also at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we have consistently heard from the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service that about five thousand Latvian companies pay about 90 per cent of all state taxes. Then often the question that arose and was discussed was how to create these next five thousand companies that are able to pay competitive wages, are able to pay public taxes and maintain all other support systems... social and all other matters? Taking into account... working in close cooperation with the Latvian Association of Young Enterprises, so various industrial players, as well as referring to the research carried out by McKinsey in 2020, which compares the competitiveness of European countries in the business environment with the competitiveness of the US and other countries, say, Western countries, then also there this regulation of stock options is indicated as one of the five main reasons which in Europe usually lags behind the USA, Great Britain and other countries. Similarly, the European Commission has repeatedly pointed out in its recent reports that this kind of regulation of stock options would be able to make Europe's business environment more competitive. This has already been successful in France, Estonia and other countries. Similarly, in autumn 2020, a similar amendment to the regulation was tabled by the German Minister for Finance, bringing it forward quickly. In Germany, a similar share option regulation is also adopted in December 2020. Since this particular proposal, my next proposal, too, refers in principle to the reservations still constant in the Ministry of Finance and seeks to reduce the fears that this business tax regime could be conceived by a company in bad faith. This proposal therefore reduces the specific... Therefore, certain groups may be narrowed up, subject to conditions or better rules for the acquisition, holding or subsequent sale of these stock options. That is why I have also been moving on with this proposal to reduce the still existing misunderstandings and concerns of the Ministry of Finance. I just want to say that, well, this is really a bill that together... in general, the society in Latvia is moving forward, which helps to distribute capital through a more equal involvement of the potential of capital in holding more people, more people. This is the true parameter of the level of prosperity, let us say, equality. So I am calling for support to be given to this proposal and to the whole of the draft law - both this and the related future draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U288	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U289	Hello, colleagues! Dear President of the Saeima and everyone else tonight! I have to say, we live in an age where the greatest struggle in the economy is no longer about raw materials or any other tangible resources. The fight is about people, about the brain, about human capital, about innovative companies. This is a fight in which we have been quite good, but it could be much better. Latvia has its own start-ups, but Latvia can also become a place where companies from other countries increase their economic value. Companies whose founders come from a wide range of locations, including our neighbours, such as Belarus, where life is now intolerant. This year we have already taken one big, wide-ranging step in that direction to make Latvia a more attractive place to start new businesses. These were substantive amendments, major amendments that we adopted in the Law on Support for New Enterprises. These amendments, which were just mentioned by Reinis Znotiņš (and I congratulate him on the fact that he managed the sub-committee on this issue), represent the second broad step in the regulation of options for shares, so that Latvia is truly a place where both our companies, the Latvian population, and innovative, fast-growing companies, as well as people from other countries, are flourishing. This issue - both the issue of support for start-ups and the regulation of share options - has been on the agenda for venture capital investors and start-ups for at least five and six years. It has to be said that until now, the parliamentary term has always been opposed to express opposition, conservativeism both by the Ministry of Justice and by the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions. I am really pleased that this has changed. I am glad that we are able to make such decisions. We can rightly and proudly say that by supporting this draft law, Latvia will become a new business friendly place – in the Baltics, in Europe and worldwide. Thank you. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U290	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U291	Hello, colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that I strongly support the alignment of the legislation on share options, because it really has been a weakness for the financial system in Latvia and not only in Latvia, if we look from the point of view of financial theory. But when it comes to the specific proposal, reading it, I'm embarrassed... I find the end of what is now in the proposal, because there is a link between the shares... the right to dispose of shares is linked to the exceptional case that these rights, i.e. the non-taxation of these taxes, are not applied in the situation where the employment relationship is terminated in connection with the granting of a state old-age pension. In Latvia... After Latvian legislation, the granting of old-age pensions and termination of employment relations are mutually independent cases. A person can start receiving a state old-age pension and, at the same time, continue working. It is his free choice whether or not he continues in employment since he applied for a national old-age pension and has been granted that old-age pension. I think this supplement is unnecessary, so I... I am, in substance, in favour of this provision, but because of this addition, which is highlighted in the table above, I will be forced to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U292	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U293	It should be noted that the Commission supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U294	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Znotiņš's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 64, for - 1, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U295	2. - The proposal from Member Rein Znotiņš. Provision shall be made for non-taxation of income with personal income if the capital company has not granted a loan to the payer which has not been repaid until the time of the acquisition of the shares. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U296	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U297	Dear colleagues, I had also applied to speak again about the previous proposal, explaining to Mr Vucana why... how that proposal came about. The proposal came about by pointing out to the Ministry of Finance that, by creating such a regulation, as we had in the past, it could put pensioners in a more favourable position than other citizens, so that for pensioners too, let us say, this possibility of how long stock options should be bought, put together with other categories of citizens. But when it comes to this proposal, it also reduces the possibilities to chart in some way. In principle, it says that the employee should not have borrowed money from the company, the company could lend money to the employee and then with this loan the employee would have redeemed the shares. And who could try some people... it is used as a scheme to circumvent taxation. That is why I have supplemented the draft law with this proposal so that such a scheme is not possible. So an employee must not owe the company money before he receives the shares or buys out, he has to repay the money, and before he can make a redemption of the shares. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U298	Members are in favour. Mr Znotiņš, I have a comment here on proposal 1. You asked to combine the two times of the debate. The two times of the debate were merged, and so to speak once again about this same proposal - after a roll of order, either, do not really agree, because the times of the debate were merged. So Proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U299	3. - the proposal by Member Andrejs Klementyev to replace the number 3960 in the fifth paragraph of Article 12 with the number 6000. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U300	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U301	Thank you. Although this proposal was tabled from Andrejs Klementjeva and not from me, I nevertheless consider it necessary to make some comments on the content of his proposal. This is about Article 12 of the law. This is the non-taxable minimum of the personal income tax payer's year. The provision in the fifth paragraph of the existing article is worded as follows: persons entitled to a pension are eligible for a minimum amount of EUR 3960 per year. Member Clementyev, to the extent that I understand and we see it very well, proposes that the non-negotiable minimum annual pension amount be raised to EUR 6000. In the calculation of an optional minimum, we get an increase for the calendar month from the existing 330 euros (to come into effect if nothing changes, from 1 January) to 500 euros. The implementation of such a proposal will relieve a large proportion of pensioners from the tax burden, leave more money in their pocket, which will not be frozen in bank accounts, but will be spent directly on farmers' markets and shops, create economic levers that will raise demand on the market, motivate producers and local producers. Consequently, this proposal is both fair and economically justified. I therefore call for support for the proposal tabled by Andrejs Klementyeva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U302	The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U303	Thank you to Igor Pimenov for supporting my proposal. I know that Igor talked a lot about returning our Latvian citizens to their homeland, and that's why he persuaded me to vote in the Diaspora law on the fact that pensioners will be able to pay taxes differently with passports of the Republic of Latvia. But I work more with Latvian citizens and Latvian citizens, pensioners who live in Latvia, who, having worked in Latvia for the whole of their lives, receive a pension in Latvia today, paying all time taxes and producing material goods, which were then privatised or otherwise lost. They always ask me why this law allows citizens who paid a lot of taxes outside Latvia to live better today and pay less tax than a pensioner who lived in Latvia. And I find it very difficult to explain why the legislators do not understand that our Latvian citizens pay much more taxes to pensioners. That is why I am tabling this proposal. I believe that EUR 500 is a very balanced figure. It's not cosmic like a thousand, like another foreign pensioner... perhaps exempt, but it is much more than today, where 330 were intended. You understand that pensioners are in such a very difficult situation today, and the code crisis hits the most, they are afraid to go to shops, they are afraid to go to doctors. Today we should present them to Christmas, to the New Year with such a good offer that, dear Latvian citizens, pensioners, we understand the problems, we understand that you need to support and bring you closer to the foreign pensioners who will return to Latvia - we will increase to the 500 euro threshold. Believe me, all the money that we will not collect through personal income tax will still remain in other taxes in Latvia through value added tax, through other taxes paid by pensioners. They will pay the same doctors for services or buy our Latvian pharmacy medicines or other necessary things. Therefore, I think that it is not only ideological that we need to reconcile the unlimited minimum for our pensioners with the pensioners who have returned to Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U304	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U305	The particular draft law deals specifically with members of the Diaspora, pensioners who have lived and receive a pension in another country. And its desire is to indirectly also help to increase Latvia's... raise internal consumption and increase tax revenues through internal consumption in the territory of Latvia, which would result in potential benefits in the social budget, which could be used to improve the well-being of our pensioners. And it is a pity that Mr. Klementyev does not understand this, but, of course, there is no guarantee that a pensioner receiving a foreign pension will now immediately travel to Latvia, move back to Latvia, go here and spend it on his big pension, but now... because also the Ministry of Finance could not make any reasonable calculations... said it is such a hope, but it may not happen. In this respect, it must be said that there is, of course, hope. If a little bit of that desire is expressed in the Diaspora, then this proposal must be supported, and this will directly result in the fact that the non-deemable minimum pension (and I am the defender of a large non-deemable minimum) can also be raised. Well, there's no... It wasn't really... The Commission has therefore discussed this proposal and it has been established that, just at the time of the examination of the budget, similar different types of proposals on the non-compulsory minimum have already been dealt with and that this issue needs to be dealt with precisely in the budgetary context. Therefore, in fact, in order to maintain the scope of the existing draft law within certain limits, this proposal was not supported. In general, I hope that pensioners with those high pensions will really reinvigorate and increase their internal consumption in Latvia so that we can also raise the overall level of welfare in the country. I think everyone should work on this, including the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U306	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U307	The proposal was not supported, I call for it to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U308	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Clementyev's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 51, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U309	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The 15th paragraph of Article 12 shall be excluded. There were risks to increase the administrative burden, so this proposal was not supported, even though it may have been... If we're all... If we had no such negative experience with the administrative burden and had not had to protect ourselves against it, then perhaps we could support it, but the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U310	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U311	Yes, I ask you to combine the times of the debate, the honourable President.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U312	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U313	Thank you. Continuing with what the rapporteur has already said about the new step taken to create more favourable legislation for the Latvian Diaspora nationals, I would like to remind you that the second reading of the draft law supported a number of norms that would ensure that a repatriated Latvian Diaspora person who is considered to be a resident of Latvia, who has been granted a pension under foreign law, is subject to the non-taxable amount of a foreign pension as it has been set for a pension in the country concerned. This is the salt of this whole series of norms. The fifteenth part of the new Section 12 was supported, which ensures that the amount of the pension exempt in the relevant tax year is clarified by the foreign State Revenue Service by means of international exchange of information or, if there are objective obstacles, other data officially opened in an equivalent form, including extracts from foreign laws and regulations, information provided publicly by a foreign institution and others. In the meantime, the proposal under consideration provides for the exclusion of the 15th paragraph of Article 12 that I mentioned. I do not support this proposal to exclude the rule in question. Its aim is to ensure that persons are not burdened with a disproportionate administrative burden by requesting a certificate, so that not every individual applicant submits a foreign certificate to the State Revenue Service on the non-applicable amount, but through the exchange of information between them, as I said, the SRS itself would clarify with the relevant tax authorities in the said country. Therefore, this information would be received in a reliable manner and at the same time applicable to all applicants who have been repatriated from the country concerned. This would reduce the administrative burden on both tax administrations and individuals, in line with the principle of good and efficient administration. The persons who live in Latvia after the return would therefore not be placed in a situation where they would have to go to the country each year or otherwise ask for such special certificates. Such knowledge does not exist in some countries, as people abroad, including their organisation, the European Latvian Association, have shown and told us, because such information is freely available in legislation or government-opened data, for example, in Great Britain, where there are a large number of members of the Diaspora. It is therefore necessary to provide that the documentary evidence required by the draft law is information obtained through the international exchange of information of the State administration or, where there are objective obstacles, other comparable data. In addition, the concept of “inequitable minimum pension” used in Latvia does not exist in a number of countries at all. There are countries where the general tax regime for a pension applies to the total income, there are countries where the minimum subsistence or the non-taxable threshold is set, rather than the non-taxable minimum. Thus, the State Revenue Service in cooperation with the foreign tax administration will be able to communicate the precise terminology for the necessary information more effectively, but it would be more burdensome if not impossible for a non-specialist senior. I call for no support for proposal 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U314	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U315	Although it was a very good and legally correct proposal, it was not supported by the Commission, and I therefore call for it to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U316	Please call me! Oh, so no one... Is one of the Members asking for a vote on this proposal? So Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The legal office's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -9, for -57, for -3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U317	5. - the proposal by Member Igora Pimenova to exclude paragraph 1 of the eighteenth paragraph of Article 12 of the second reading of the draft law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U318	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U319	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to exclude the provision of a non-taxable amount of a foreign pension - a thousand euros per month - if the pension income received from a foreign country is not subject to personal income tax in a foreign country. If, in the course of the taxation of a foreign pension, we apply the non-taxable minimum which takes place under the laws and regulations of a foreign country, it would be lawful if we also apply it if the non-taxable minimum coincides with the full amount of the pension. Otherwise, it may happen that if the law of Latvia applies a foreign pension to the income tax of Latvian citizens, it will apply the prescribed amount – very large, even thousands! - the non-taxable minimum, but for another foreign pension, which is not taxed in that country at all, Latvian law will apply the non-taxable minimum only in the amount of one thousand. In order to avoid this contradiction, I call for the exclusion of paragraph 1 of the eighteenth paragraph of Article 12 of the law included in the second reading of the draft law. I ask you to support my proposal for the reason I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U320	I closed the debate. Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U321	6. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Editative, also very constructive, so the Commission was supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U322	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U323	I thank my colleagues for supporting my previous proposal. This proposal is a technical proposal. It provides for the exclusion of words from the text of the law which contain a reference to a provision which has just been excluded by proposal 5. Therefore, there is no longer any need for a reference to this either. Please support proposal 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U324	I closed the debate. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U325	7. - a editorial proposal from the committee responsible. The numbering of Article 6 of the draft law shall be specified. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U327	8 / 8 - a editorial proposal from the committee responsible. The numbering of the points of the transitional provisions shall be specified. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U329	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U331	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The wording of paragraph 175 of the transitional provisions shall be clarified. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U333	And the last, 11th, Commission's proposal. The transitional provisions provide that the amendments concerning the application of the non-taxable minimum of the country of origin to the pensionable pensioner's pension shall apply from 1 January 2021. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U335	In this respect, honourable colleagues, all the proposals have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U336	We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - no, for - 10. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Commercial Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U337	We continue our work on the draft Law “Amendments to the Commercial Law” reviewed at the third reading by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which is related to the previously examined draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”. Eight proposals have been received in this draft law. 1. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice of the Prime Minister Janis Bordans. According to Article 9, first paragraph, fourth sentence, of the Act, the words ‘an official of a commercial register authority’ shall be excluded. This proposal, as well as the next one, is linked. They are necessary to rule out the regulation governing the person's signature in the register, as the Register of Enterprises no longer provides and will not provide such a service due to digitisation. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U338	So proposal 1 is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U339	2. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice of the Prime Minister Janis Bordans. The seventh sentence of the first paragraph of Article 9 of the Law is foreseen to be excluded. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U341	3. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice of the Prime Minister Janis Bordans. It is envisaged that the authorisation of the economic operator should be withdrawn. Here you have to say that, although the Saeima adopted amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” already in 2019, the activity of such a register has already been deleted... Since it was not possible for Members of the Commission to get acquainted with statistics of interest... statistical information, then Members chose to be cautious. Therefore, the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U342	The vote is requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal of the Prime Minister's Justice Minister, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -41, for -6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U343	4. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice of the Prime Minister Janis Bordans. In the light of the above proposals, it is envisaged to clarify the right to levy the relevant fees for the provision of services. The proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U344	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U345	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The previous proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns is included, but makes reference to the fee obligation to issue a registration certificate for the merchant. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U347	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U349	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U351	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Minister of Justice of the Prime Minister Janis Bordans. Supplements the transitional provisions of the Law with paragraph 59, providing for the regulation of registration of various shares of SIAs until new implementation of the Register of Enterprises information system. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U352	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U353	Dear colleagues, The package of amendments to these draft laws was prepared by a very large number of those involved, so I really wanted to thank all those who achieved it in their joint work. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues for the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-Commission - both Janis Dombrava and Janis Iesalnieks, Daniel Pavļu, Mārtiņš Stein, Uldis Budrik and Janis Witenberg, who were previously in this Commission before he became a minister. I also wanted to thank the members of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. First of all, Ralf Nemir, Head of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, who, contrary to the constant desire of the Ministry of Finance to destroy this draft law, nevertheless pushed it forward. Thank you also to the Members of the Commission who were not afraid - Krišjānis Feldman, Sandis Riekstins, Daniels Pavlut and all the others who have on this committee. This would certainly not have happened without the involvement of industry.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U354	Mr Znotiņš, please return to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U355	That is why I wanted to say that this proposal, like all others, is supported by the Latvian Association of Young Enterprises, the Latvian Private and Venture Capital Association, the Lawyers' Office Cobalt, Change Ventures and also Andra Kariņa-Bērzina, as well as the Ministry of Economics. So thank you all for your joint work. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U356	I closed the debate. Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U357	In this respect, it has to be said that all the proposals have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U358	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Commercial Law" in the third, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 80, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Public Transport Services Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U359	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined, at its third final reading, the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Public Transport Services’. I would remind you that the draft law provides for changes to the Law on Public Transport Services and its terminology. It provides for the determination of the amount of services guaranteed by the State in the segment of the routes to be provided, as well as for the establishment of commercial routes, the right of customers to introduce free public transport services on routes of regional importance and the possibility for municipalities to participate in the co-financing of public transport services. 15 proposals were submitted to this draft law for the third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Editable. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U360	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U361	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. The definitions used in the law shall be specified. The proposal was partly supported and included in the Commission 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U362	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U363	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The definition used by the law shall be specified. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U365	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U367	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. The minimum amount of public transport services guaranteed by the State shall be determined. The proposal was partly supported and included in the Commission6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U368	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U369	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The minimum amount of public transport services guaranteed by the State shall be determined by specifying the previous proposal - Fare Linkait. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U371	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Article 6 of the draft law is to be excluded. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U373	8 / 8 - A proposal from Member Ainara Latkovska. It is envisaged to supplement Article 14 by establishing the right of the contracting entity to provide public transport services on request. The proposal has been partly supported and included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U374	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U375	Colleagues! First of all, thank you very much to the Commission for its partial support and, of course, I am not asking for a vote on my proposal, because then there is a Commission proposal that has been assessed. I just want to say that my proposal is based on one of the European Union's projects in Mazsalaca and Aluksne, where the data clearly demonstrate that transport on demand is the most cost-effective solution. And this is also the best for citizens. Therefore, thank you to the Commission, thank you to the Minister and the Ministry for working on this issue. So we support the next proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U376	I closed the debate. Members agree with the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U377	Well, obviously they agree. So it's 9. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. The procedure for identifying categories of passengers benefiting from fare relief shall be laid down. The Commission proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U378	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U379	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Specifies 9. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U381	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Transfer the time limit by which the necessary regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are to be issued. The Commission was partly supported and included in 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U382	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U383	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible specifying in editorial terms 11. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Fare Linkait. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U385	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It is envisaged to supplement the transitional provisions of the law by determining the time of entry into force of the various amendments to the law. The Commission has partially supported and included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U386	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U387	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible specifying 13. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Fare Linkait. Also states that until 30 November 2021, the Cabinet of Ministers shall submit to the Saeima a draft law providing for the provision of passenger transport services at the request of passengers. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U389	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The period of entry into force of the law, that is, on the day following its announcement, shall be determined. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U391	Consequently, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U392	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law on Public Transport Services! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Act on the Convention on International Guarantees for Mobile Equipment and the Protocol on International Guarantees for Mobile Equipment on matters relating to aircraft equipment’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U393	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The Foreign Commission has prepared a draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the Convention on International Guarantees for Mobile Equipment and the Protocol to the Convention on International Guarantees for Mobile Equipment on matters relating to aircraft equipment’ for the third reading. One proposal has been received by the Foreign Affairs Commission. It is a proposal from the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait, which is linked... So, in the Foreign Affairs Commission, looking at the bill at second reading... and the industry drew attention... I am very sorry where... the industry drew attention to where the additions are needed. Of course, we called on the Ministry of Transport to find this solution together. Consequently, it is also clear from the Ministry of Transport: these mentioned clarifications in the draft law are necessary to clarify the taxes, duties, which are directly related to the use of aircraft objects. The term ‘unpaid regulated charges directly attributable to the use of an aircraft item, including aerodrome charges and air navigation service charges’ is meant. And paragraph 2 of the previous version has been moved to Article 4.1(1) in order to make it clear that unpaid air and air navigation charges must be paid both before and after insolvency proceedings have been initiated. The current version of Article 4.2 provides for the registration in the aircraft register of the rights of a person in favour of the aircraft in question who, by decision of a court or authority, has been entered into a ban or recognition by an authority. The specific proposal of the Minister of Transport, Teleels Linkait, was supported by the Commission. I invite you to support the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U395	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U396	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law Amending the law on the Convention on International Guarantees for Mobile Equipment and the Protocol on the Convention on International Guarantees for Mobile Equipment on matters relating to aircraft equipment, third, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U397	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined and directed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the District Council of the Republic” (No. 629/Lp13) at third reading. The draft law is designed to implement the provisions of Section 12(4) of the Transitional Provisions of the Diaspora Law. It provides for a procedure in which voters residing abroad may participate in municipal elections by voting by post. Currently, according to the law in municipal elections, voting takes place only in person, in polling districts, in the territory of Latvia. Voters in foreign countries cannot participate in municipal elections in accordance with the current law. The regulation included in this draft law does not extend the electoral roll, but provides for technical possibilities to participate in municipal elections, also outside Latvia. Five proposals were received to the third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. It is envisaged to replace the words ‘on the Internet’ by ‘on the website’ in order to ensure that one concept is used in the context of a single law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U399	2. - A proposal from Member Ainara Latkovska. The first paragraph of Article 33.1 of the draft law provides for the deletion of the words ‘staying abroad’. As the applicant's representative explained, the proposal aims to create equal opportunities for voters living abroad and in Latvia outside their municipality to vote by post. Although the members of the committee noted that such a possibility should be considered, they did not support the inclusion of the norm in the draft law prior to the third reading. This was based on the following arguments: A much broader discussion is needed in order to implement this fundamental change. The Central Electoral Commission noted that due to very short deadlines (all should be ready as early as March next year), it is not possible to ensure this from a technical and security point of view to the 2021 municipal elections. The Central Electoral Commission also consulted CERT.LV and the Constitutional Protection Bureau on this. Our colleagues also pointed out that this is already a number of challenges in the next year's municipal elections. Elections should be organised in the territories of new municipalities, an online system of voters' register is also introduced, which will allow voting in any municipality district, and opportunities for prior voting are extended. The applicant invited: if it is not possible to introduce a postal vote for those living in Latvia, it is also possible to postpone this opportunity for those living abroad. But then the Diaspora law would not be fulfilled. We would reject what was already adopted at first and second reading... and, under no circumstances, is in favour of representatives of the Diaspora. Consequently, on the basis of the above, the Commission did not support Member Latkovsky's proposal. I call on the Saeima not to support it either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U400	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U401	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. According to Article 4 of the draft law (the second paragraph of Article 38.1 of the law), the words ‘election associations’ are excluded. A drafting proposal that is consistent with a law that is already in force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U403	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Article 44, third and fourth paragraphs, provides for the replacement of the words ‘on a website on the Internet’ by ‘on a website’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U405	And 5. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The deadlines shall be agreed so as not to change the deadline for submitting candidates, which means not to impair the ability of individuals to stand as candidates in municipal elections in 2021. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U406	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U407	I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the District Council of the Republic” in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U408	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the Regional Council of the Republic” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Chemicals Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U409	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has thus examined the draft law on “Amendments to the Chemicals Act”. This draft law is related to the implementation of several regulations, but the essence is that the state-owned company with limited liability “Latvian Centre for Environment, Geology and Meteorology” must provide for additional functions related to implementation of regulations. This issue is due to the need to implement these Regulations by January 2021. Therefore, the matter of urgency has also been dealt with by the panel. We therefore ask colleagues to support the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U410	The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Chemicals”! Please, let's vote! For - 67, for - 15, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U411	Yes, colleagues, I therefore also call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U412	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on chemicals law! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U413	Thank you very much, colleagues, for your support. The deadline for submitting proposals - 4 January 2021, and consideration of the draft law - meeting of the Saeima on 14 January 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U414	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for proposals - 4 January 2021, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 14 January 2021. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, first reading. Dear colleagues, Members of these draft laws, Mr Reizniece-Ozola, Mr Kučinskis, Mr Bergmanis, Mr Dūklavs, Mr Valainis, Mr Augulis, Mr Jalinska, Ms Dauge, Mr Stepanenko and Mr Vucans, are asking for urgent treatment and would like to consider it today, 17 December 2020, in the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. Members Feldman, Gunna, Budriķis, Zālīte-Gross, Muizniece, Cielēns, Riekstins, Jurās, Eglitis and Mārtova are asking to declare this draft law urgent and to consider it at the final reading at the next re-elected Saeima meeting. So we start to examine the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U415	Hello, colleagues! Thus, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” at first reading. This draft law provides for the freezing of wages for Ministers, the Prime Minister and Parliamentary Secretaries by 2021. The budget and financial (tax) commission supports this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U416	So, colleagues, first the commission... So Members have asked for this draft law to be declared urgent. Mrs Ločmele, do you want to talk about the urgent introduction of a bill?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U417	No, I want to debate the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U418	Okay. First of all, we must vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U419	I would like to explain in the context of this draft law that such draft laws with a similar idea, namely freezing wages for both ministers and parliamentary secretaries of ministries, were two. The first draft, which was also tabled in the first term, was a draft law drafted by the Group of the EFTA States. Unfortunately, however, at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, without a special debate with a smile on the lips, the coalition that ruled our bill had rejected it. I would like to remind you of the difference between our draft law and that which will be voted on immediately by the Members of the Saeima. Our draft law, which we have drawn up, was to freeze the salaries of all ministers and parliamentary secretaries to 13. The end of the parliamentary term, i.e. for almost two years. This bill, drafted by representatives of the ruling coalition, aims to freeze the remuneration of ministers and parliamentary secretaries for only one year, namely 2021. We believe that this is a fundamental difference. And it was our draft law that was supported by the majority of society, which requires not only freezing ministerial wages, but also reducing the wages to the minimum wage level so that ministers would be closer to the people so that they would better understand the wishes of the people of Latvia during the Covid-19 crisis. Well, by rejecting our draft law, it was only for the first, indefinite time that the Cabinet of Ministers remained working even then... After the parliamentary term of office has expired, the Cabinet of Ministers is still working. In our view, this is precisely an argument why it was necessary to limit the increase in the salaries of the Cabinet of Ministers for exactly two years in order to have a direct link and political responsibility both on the part of Members and of the government, which these Members, namely those of the ruling coalition, have elected for this term of office. And the second point raised by the State Chancellery was an even more interesting moment, which I think the majority of Members do not even know, namely it turns out that the salaries of ministers and parliamentary secretaries are also indexed according to the level of inflation in the country, so that, by freezing these salaries, we do not have to consider that these wages will be increased according to the level of inflation in the country. Since we will, of course, also support this draft law, because the most important thing is to symbolically support the desire of the Latvian people, so that the ministers also show solidarity with the whole society, but what you did in the Commission, a team of the ruling coalition led by Mr Bondar, is simply, let us say, as ridiculous as it was for Mr Bondara and the representative of the State Chancellery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U420	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U421	I would like to draw attention to the fact that even before the first reading, as we say, proposals regarding the State Audit Office have been received in this draft law... the freezing of salaries of the controller and members of the State Audit Council. And in this respect, I should like to thank all the Members who supported the urgent introduction of this draft law, because otherwise this year, it would not be possible to accept this draft law and actually create an unpleasant wedding that the will of the legislator could not be implemented in the way it was intended. Given the urgent nature of support, it is likely that the deadline for the submission of proposals will also need to be changed. I therefore propose that the deadline for submitting proposals for the second, final, reading of this bill be fixed - Monday, that is, 21 December, at 12:00. That is to enable some Members to table and prepare some proposals tomorrow and perhaps on Monday. And accordingly, ensure a review at the next newly convened Saeima sitting, which could perhaps also take place next week in the context of the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers order. Consequently, if I cannot say this in the debate, then I call on you to give me the floor on the time-limit for tabling proposals when we reach that point. But now, purely technically, I say that Monday at 12:00 would be the option that could be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U422	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U423	I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U424	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, 10, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Colleagues, we are now coming to the deadline for proposals and the time when this draft law will be discussed by the Saeima at the final reading. What are the deadlines set by the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U425	Yes, so the commission had set July 22, this year. ... I'm sorry, December.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U426	So, on 22 December this year, it is a deadline for the examination of proposals or a deadline for the submission of proposals, or... And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U427	This was before the decision on urgency. Yes, then it was the deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U428	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 22 December this year. Please turn on the microphone for Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U429	I call for a deadline to be set for the examination of the proposals - 21 December at 12.00 this year - then at the next newly announced parliamentary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U430	Yeah, thank you. A number of ZZS Members had asked to be heard today at an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, i.e. on 17 December this year. And the deadline for submitting proposals is not specified in this document. Does one of the Members want to talk about the deadline for tabling proposals? Microphone member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U431	Colleagues! President-in-Office of the Saeima. I would propose setting a deadline as short as possible so that there is indeed a guarantee that the draft law can be adopted at second reading this year. The law would enter into force on 1 January of the following year. Accordingly, of the two offered would be at 12 noon. But if it was still possible, I simply couldn't get to see the opportunity to apply and offer our deadline in advance. We would offer tomorrow at 12:00. I think it would be enough time for everyone, including the opposition, to make proposals. And that would give a greater guarantee that indeed we would come to a decision. What seems a little strange to me is that the commission had not, for its part, proposed urgency to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U432	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the proposals is 12 noon on 18 December this year. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three deadlines for tabling proposals - 22 December this year, at 12.00 on 21 December this year, at 12.00 on 18 December this year. First of all, we must vote in favour of the Commission's next proposal: 22 December this year. We will vote in favour of the deadline for the submission of proposals - 22 December this year - which has been proposed by the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” - December 22, this year! Please, let's vote! For - 21, for - 59, for - 1. The proposal is not supported. The next deadline for submitting proposals is 12 noon on 21 December this year. So let's vote in favour of this. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” - 21 December at 12.00! Please, let's vote! On - 7, against -69, refraining from -2. This proposal is not supported. Thus, the deadline for submitting proposals remains at 12.00 on 18 December this year. And on the time of consideration of the Saeima sitting. Since we have agreed on a deadline for the submission of proposals - 18 December - then consideration at the Saeima sitting, as proposed by some Members, is not possible on 17 December this year. Obviously, it is necessary to agree on the examination at the next re-integral sitting of the Saeima. Are there any other proposals regarding the timing of the sitting in the Saeima sitting? Turn on the microphone for Dana Reizniece-Ozola. No, so Mrs. Reizniece has not wanted to speak. The period of consideration remains in force - in the re-called next sitting of the Saeima. Thank you, colleagues. This draft law has been examined. It's time for a break. Registration of Members. Registration has taken place. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U433	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall resume the examination of the second remote emergency session on 17 December after a break. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Occupational Museum of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Evija Papule. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U434	Hello! Currently under consideration the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia” (No. 575/Lp13) at first reading. And this amendment is linked to the draft law on the Construction Law (No. 574/Lp13). The amendments are necessary to ensure consistency with the planned changes to Article 12 of the Construction Law, expressed in new wording, as well as to supplement this Article with a new regulation concerning the competence of the construction board. This is due to the need to allocate certain tasks of the building board within each administrative stage of the construction process. The planned changes do not change the current competence of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, but harmonise the two related regulations. According to Section 6 (3) and (4) of the Latvian Occupational Museum Law, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has been performing the construction of a memorial complex for the victims of Soviet occupation since 4 October 2016. This Law must enter into force or should enter into force at the same time as the Law Amending the Construction Law (No. 574/Lp13). Within the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, the draft law has been approved. Please also support the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U435	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Occupational Museum of Latvia”! Please vote mode! No, 69, against and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U436	Thank you for your support. The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 January 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U437	Consequently, there are no other proposals for a deadline. For draft legislation for second reading, proposals shall be submitted by 6 January 2021. Thank you. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the social security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Guernsey. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U438	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Commission examined draft law on the first reading of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Guernsey in the field of social security. The draft law is closely linked to our nationals abroad. So this time it is about our Diaspora in Guernsey, which is, of course, the area directly exposed to the British crown, but not part of the United Kingdom. And currently, cooperation between Latvia and Guernsey in the field of social security is not regulated. In Guernsey there is an active Latvian Diaspora, even the second largest minority behind the Portuguese. This territory has become a popular destination for Latvian labour migrants over time. However, in Guernsey, it is necessary to control the total population, which means that there are different types of work permits and access to housing. A significant part of the labour force is therefore only a short seasonal activity, with a maximum of nine months for one working period, followed by a three-month break outside Guernsey. Aware of the special circumstances and the need to ensure the social rights of Latvian citizens who are currently living and working in Guernsey, as well as those who have previously worked there, the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has... an agreement between Latvia and Guernsey in the field of social security has been initiated. It is based on the principle of equal treatment regarding application of legal acts, abolition of restrictions, granting of old-age pensions and related benefits, as well as survivor's pension and payment to persons subject to social security systems in Latvia and Guernsey, as well as preservation of rights by adding the periods of insurance contributions previously accumulated. In the Foreign Affairs Commission, this draft law was unanimously approved at first reading. Therefore, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U439	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the agreement on social security between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Guernsey! Please vote mode! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U440	Proposals for a second reading shall be submitted by 28 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U441	There are no other proposals. So the deadline for the second reading is 28 December this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U442	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues, we work on document No. 761/Lp13. It should be noted that, initially, the purpose of the draft law was to determine the use of accrued funded pension capital in the event of death of the beneficiary of the state social security benefit and of persons who did not claim an old-age pension at the same time as receiving another service, as well as to determine the amount of the month of life pension, which is taken into account when providing minimum pension amounts or maintaining the old-age pension. However, during the work of the Commission, a number of proposals were put forward to invest the capital of the funded pension scheme in private financial facilities. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. In point 1.1 of the first paragraph of Article 12, the words “but are included on a regulated market established in Latvia or another Member State or are not included on a regulated market established in Latvia or another Member State” shall be replaced by the words “but are traded on a trading venue established in a Member State within the meaning of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments (hereinafter: "the trading venue") or are not traded on a trading venue established in a Member State”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U443	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U444	2. - also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Clarifying.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U445	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U446	3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's also editorial.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U447	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U448	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's also clear. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U449	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U450	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. In Article 12, first paragraph, point (6), ‘a’ shall be replaced by the following: ‘These derivatives shall be traded on a trading venue registered in a Member State or on an official or equivalent list of funds registered in a Member State of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and that fund exchange shall be a full member of the World Exchange Federation’. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U452	6. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U453	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U454	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. A number of conditions shall be laid down with the collateral of the issuer. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U455	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U456	Okay. 8 / 8 - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported. Paragraph 7 of the second paragraph of Article 12 shall be supplemented by the following sentence: ‘An investment in a single investment fund may be increased to 25 per cent of the assets of the investment plan if its investment policy provides for a replication of the composition of the capital or of the debt securities index.’
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U457	Supported by the Commission. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U458	Yes, the commission is supported. 9. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U459	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U460	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U461	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U462	11. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Disable point 11 of the second paragraph of Article 12. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U463	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U464	12. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Provision shall be made for a reduction in interest and shall read: ‘Replace the figure ‘20’ in point 14 of the second paragraph of Article 12, with the number ‘25’.’
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U465	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U466	13. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Percentage as well... provide for a percentage composition. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U467	Members support 13. - a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U468	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partially supported, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U469	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U470	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U471	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U472	16. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U474	17. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U475	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U476	16. - also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U477	Mrs. Schvekov, 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U478	Yes, I am sorry, 18 is the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. And it's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U479	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U480	Please support the entire draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U481	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U482	The Commission decided - seven days from today, that is... 13 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U483	It's more than seven days, Mrs. Schvekov. Seven days would be December 24, but since it is a holiday, I would say December 28.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U484	So on December 28th.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U485	So proposals for the third reading are expected by 28 December this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Participation of the Latvian National Armed Forces in International Operations”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U486	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined draft law “Amendments to the Law “Participation of the Latvian National Armed Forces in International Operations”” at second reading. One was received at second reading: the proposal of Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editable. It is proposed to replace the words “Contingent of the National Armed Forces of Latvia” with the words “ Latvian National Armed Forces units or soldiers (..)”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U487	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U488	We have examined the proposals for second reading with this. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U489	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “Participation of the Latvian National Armed Forces in International Operations”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U490	Proposals for third reading shall be submitted by 30 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U491	Consequently, proposals for the third reading may be submitted by 30 December of this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection. Draft law is declared urgent, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U492	Good evening, chair of the sitting! Colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, we examined on Tuesday the draft law ‘Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection’. There are 69 proposals in total, and then we start the examination. 1. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Is technical, clarifies the norm. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U493	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U494	2. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Also technical, clarify the wording of the norm. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U495	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U496	Also 3. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Technically, clarify the wording. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U497	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U498	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U499	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U500	Five more. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. And the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U501	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U502	6. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Editable. And the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U503	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U504	Okay. 7. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. Related to changes in real estate tax regulation during Covid-19. The proposal supplements the provision that municipalities are entitled to take a decision on the non-application of late payment money for tax delays. At the meeting of the Commission, the Ministry of Finance mentioned that late payment payments were also carried forward when tax payments were transferred. As a result of the discussions, the Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U505	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please! Mrs. Svekov, we don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U506	It's okay, I'm sorry, technical nuance. Thank you. The substance of the proposal is related to the need to regulate and clearly define the possibility for local authorities to transfer payment for real estate tax, including by deciding not to apply late payment. Why is this necessary? This is necessary in order also to be legally reflected and not to appear after two or three years, for example, when we have already forgotten the situation of the community and the crisis and other critical moments... that there will be an inspection of the State Audit Office in the municipality and it will not be clearly understood why, on the basis of which criteria, the municipality has taken such or such a decision regarding relief or the possibility not to pay tax, or to postpone appropriate penalties; in order to ensure that the municipality clearly knows and understands that the law gives such an opportunity and will not provide for liability, and the relevant local authorities, state officials will not be called under administrative or other liability for the voluntar or otherwise treated rule of law and unjustified relief for any economic operator. It should be noted that already some municipalities are applying exemptions to real estate tax, but there is no system and no precise understanding of the law on the conditions under which, and how, such relief will be used, it is also clarified legally by this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U507	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U508	Dear colleagues, There is now a period of force majeure, an emergency. And just now we have learned that there will be a quiet Christmas, a quiet time, in which some who have made this decision may think only from the perspective of consumers - well, we will less cry the bodes - but no one has imagined that there is a very large proportion of the businessmen who were just hoping for this festival. Their specific work is linked to trade and the provision of services, so that they can also pay property taxes, which have already been accumulated by many as debts. When you start, honourable colleagues from the coalition and from the government think not in the categories of consumers, but in a little different way, then you will also understand that this proposal is very important. Yes, there was a debate in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, yes, at first reading there is a version that allows local authorities to shift deadlines, but at no moment do we have any provision at this first reading for the municipality to be able to forgive non-payment, temporary non-payment, even if payment deadlines are shifted, to those who can still not pay real estate tax. We do not know how many municipalities could pass these payment deadlines and how all this will happen. Each municipality is entitled to act at its own discretion, but no municipality is entitled to forgive these debts, i.e. to forgive these late interest without receiving any questions from the State Audit Office. When we tabled this proposal together with Mrs Schvekova, I think, in November, yes, then we heard from Mr Feldman's explanation that he has not yet gone through the shops. Then he could answer right now, or indeed he still believes that the State Audit Office will in no way react if the municipality forgives these late interest on its head. My colleagues and I found out that in any case, we are following very closely the way in which the municipality carries out its duties. If municipalities are told that interest on fines should be collected from these payments, if everything is to be done to collect these payments, then municipalities cannot act on their head and do not apply interest on penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this proposal because, similarly... We had a similar situation in spring when we introduced a forsmarker, which also made it clear that the penalty interest in the contracts would be suspended. I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U509	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! About - 30, against - 52, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U510	Proposal No 8 is identical to proposal No 7, not put to the vote, but to the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U511	Member Lubova Švecova has come to the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U512	Yes, thank you, colleagues. I do not really think it is right to reject the proposal. Why? Because it simply defines clear game rules for all players. This proposal would make it legally correct for those municipalities that have the possibility... stimulate the economy. If we look at the critical economic situation, the unemployment rate, there is only one step to bankruptcy and insolvency. And the instrument - to ensure that we do not apply gardening sanctions - is a legally sound and correct way to support entrepreneurship in the regions. If we want strong regions, if we want municipalities to have also complied with all the provisions of the law, then it would only be logical to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U513	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U514	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the penalty interest, the interest on late payments - this is a commitment reinforcing instrument that improves the discipline of payments. This instrument is initially intended to discipline the payer so that the payer really follows his obligations, payment deadlines and does not behave lightly against his obligations. What we are seeing right now is not a fault for payment discipline; it is a problem that people do not have the money to pay for real estate tax. This is not a service that a person can refuse. It's not a commodity he can't buy. It is his dwelling in which he lives until the bailiffs knock on his door. These are basic needs, they are the right to housing. If we believe that those people who do not pay the municipal real estate tax on the basis of the penalty interest are the abusive non-payers - all in the same line - then more cynical decisions and even more cynical attitude towards their, Latvian, citizens can probably not be expected. I appeal, honourable colleagues, to think about it. If you have another sitting... I understand that you cannot normally perceive the opposition proposals, but if you have another sitting, please think that people do not currently have the money to pay for real estate tax, including - we are not even talking about communal payments. You have prevented them from earning their income, hoping lightly that everyone has the means to sit for three weeks, bake pies and play table games. But people do not have income opportunities. Many of them are fed by personal work, the things they produce, and the services they provide. They are now denied this. You, the state workers, don't understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U515	I would remind you that this proposal cannot be voted on, but the debate on this proposal can take place. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U516	Colleagues! I also call, at least, on colleagues in the coalition to listen to this proposal and to send a message to the working group of the government, which will hopefully also meet regularly at the end of the year and will look at the possibility of expanding support measures and offering an additional solution. Their scope should include the following proposal: not to impose penalties, to exempt municipalities from the obligation to collect them, because, although the range of aid has become more favourable for economic operators on the part of the state, in my view it is still insufficient. Much remains to be done to extend the scope of potential beneficiaries. By learning from other countries, I also think that another form of aid should be considered, for example, by co-financing at least part of the company's fixed costs. Such practices are carried out by other countries, for example, in the Netherlands companies can receive 50 per cent of their fixed costs - rents and other charges of this kind. In this case, I would say that this is one... one small part, also insufficient support, but at least something. I would ask you to consider this possibility and offer at least your own, because this proposal is not currently put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U517	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U518	Good evening, colleagues! There will be some noise in the background, I have children next to me. But the thing is. If I were a Prime Minister, in 2021 all Latvians would be exempt from real estate tax at the expense of “many money”. And it would stop all execution records, recovery records and freeze all this interest for late payment because of the crisis and people's need to help. ‘ Many money” is not intended to make public office and public sector on paid leave for more than half a year now, as we in the Saeima actually do, but we must help those who are in a real crisis. These are hundreds of thousands of people. I get every day, I get every day! - despairful letters. You read the last I got just a moment ago? Last... The last letter, therefore, is: “My advance will be on the 22nd day. Thank God, I've got some work left. But the thing is that I bring up one child and the gifts don't come to me this year, even for little gifts.” It's the mildest, it's the mildest! - from all the letters I've received. I'm not going to talk about those many desperate letters, where people say they have... that they intend to commit suicide. Do you understand how to read such letters? It is written by citizens of the Republic of Latvia, Latvians, against whom you vote. People are desperate. Not everyone, of course, but one part is. The only thing you can ban is you will prohibit the purchase of pans. You son of a bitch, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he It's all yours... thing. Even the vaccine you cannot deliver, which you promise you are there. We have no idea what the government of the losers is. The mind is inextricably treated by the people of Latvia. I don't think it's cynicism that's beyond my mind. That's all you can say about what you're doing. And the people will remember it, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U519	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U520	Head of sitting! Colleagues! Of course, I would like this proposal to be put to the vote now, because its problem is marked... The particular problem is marked by the payment of this tax in Riga and Jurmala... especially in the business sector, where in principle there is a stoppage, but local authorities are forced to apply this tax after a discount, to write out... The situation is that, of course, everyone sees that this tax is not payable. And this is one of the forms of aid, especially at this time. I personally had a conversation with the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs on this subject, and I have also received, at least orally, a regulation of this type. This type of regulation should already have been six months ago, well, at least at the beginning of the second wave, in order to be able to provide some maximum kind of support to entrepreneurs. We need to get rid of the municipalities, even though the municipalities have a very significant financial loss in the next year's budget, and these opportunities... Greater possibilities should be given for this tax to be introduced. In any case, it cannot remain on the back of the municipality alone. This is a tax which is the only fully administered by local governments. If the municipalities give these reliefs... It will be done and it will be done, because that is simply the reality. If we want to save this business in some way, help these entrepreneurs overwinter, then this is the only real way to do it. This type of regulation should therefore be made. And there should also be an understanding by the State that the municipalities should... Of these large loans, which currently millions of governments are going to spend on support measures, it is also necessary to provide for support to municipalities so that they can grant relief so that they can compensate for the loss of revenue needed by municipalities to pay the same social workers, pre-school teachers, who are also great heroes in this time of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U521	Thank you. I closed the debate. As I said earlier, it is impossible to vote on this proposal, but the debate was possible. So it is not possible to vote on this proposal from Lubova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U522	So the next one is 9. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal. It is editorial in nature. It is stipulated that the Cabinet of Ministers may not adopt, but takes a decision about the procedure and the extent to which the forecasts of personal income tax income cannot be compensated to municipalities. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U523	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U524	Yes, thank you Martin Stein for pointing out very precisely the substance of my proposal. I really could (A sound break.) ... change one word, but this single word changes the application of this norm. What does this mean in practice with municipalities? This means that the Cabinet of Ministers will have to decide if actual income from personal income tax decreases for the particular municipality. As we know, local authorities are reducing their revenue so significantly next year that, under the threat, there are even the good amendments that we voted on when adopting the budget for 2021. That is, that we are increasing the threshold for guaranteed minimum income, which also provides a basis for increasing the various benefits and assistance provided to our citizens by certain municipalities. On Tuesday, for example, during the sub-committee meeting on housing issues, we examined the procedure that will take place next year in relation to the cost of compensation to the tenants of denationalised houses, and the possibility that more people will be able to register in a particular register, who will also be able to qualify for low-income and poor status due to these particular GM changes. But, as pointed out by the representative of the Latvian Municipal Union, except for the large municipalities, there are also many municipalities that doubt whether they will be able to change their binding regulations and increase the threshold so that a person can obtain such status, because the income of municipalities will decrease significantly, especially if we are talking about Latgale municipalities. Therefore, I offer you a vote in favour of my proposal to guarantee any municipality of Latvia a level of income that guarantees a full and high-quality range of services for any citizen next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U525	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U526	Yes, colleagues, we also call for support for this proposal because it is, by its very nature, identical to the proposal (for the next one), which is not necessarily a editorial proposal. This, in essence, entails, as Mrs Ločmele has already mentioned, an obligation for the government in case the income from personal income tax is not as high as planned, for municipalities to compensate for the drop in income. Personal income tax is the main source of income for municipalities. And we know that the proportion that municipalities will receive has already been reduced next year. Why is this particularly topical right now? Colleagues, apart from the fact that the revenue of a number of municipalities in the forecasts is below critical level and its beaks will be able to draw ends and fulfil all of its functions laid down in the Law “On Local Government”, it is even more relevant at the moment because the Bank of Latvia has reduced the gross domestic product forecasts of the following year just three days ago, i.e. immediately after the approval of the state budget. If the draft budget is created with a growth of 5.1 per cent of GDP, which also means corresponding tax revenues, the experts of the Bank of Latvia already estimate that GDP growth in the following year could be almost half - only 2.8 per cent. Colleagues, this is a huge difference. We can only mention why the Bank of Latvia came so late with its forecasts, why even before the final adoption of the budget, there was no obvious assessment by experts that the government was too optimistic on the basis of the forecast. But this also means that tax revenues, including personal income tax revenues, will be less, which will once again basically hit the municipal pocket. Nine million too, which would, at least to a minimal extent, compensate those municipalities for the drop in their revenues due to the shift in the share of the IIN... they were not secured during the budgetary process. In this bill, you will see further that some coalition Members have offered a little piece of bone, if you can say so, to municipalities of some million euros. But again, in order to be able to qualify for this funding, municipalities will have to prove that they have a huge unemployment rate and huge negative impacts and consequences on the community, once again making life difficult for all and administratively difficult. I call for this proposal to be supported in order to give at least a little sense of security to municipalities and regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U527	Name in the debate for Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U528	Dear colleagues, Yes, since the budget did not support a number of proposals (also my proposal that municipalities should not have reduced their revenue base by more than four per cent compared to this year) then this proposal, tabled by Regina Ločmele, would really be welcome, because it would really be a guarantee - a concrete guarantee! - the fact that, if personal income tax forecasts are not met, the government would actually guarantee to compensate the municipalities for the financing. On the other hand, we approved today as Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Mr Tom Arthur Plesh. It would also be a certain support for him, because it is clear that he will have to join the municipalities. He also promised municipal growth and support. Well, there is no alternative, as he may say, to provide this support to municipalities. In my view, the proposal is logical and should not, however, be put in front of anyone... It does not make it difficult for the government, it simply obliges us not to forget the municipalities that will not have the resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U529	We are continuing the debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U530	Good evening, colleagues! The proposal we are debating is a typical example of what a decision should not be at a time of crisis, on the one hand, and, on the other, what Mrs Ločmele offers - what a decision should be at a time of crisis. I would like to say that this indecision in the proposal which is a base proposal and which is proposed to be amended by both Regina Ločmele and by some members of the STECF is perhaps due to the fact that we have been living in the country for some time without the Minister for Local Government Affairs, namely, there has been no objection to the fact that such a proposal should certainly be supported in this firm form, that such an order or division of the resolution of the crisis must be issued. I write it down really to the jobless situation in the municipal sector. That is why I am calling for strong support for both this proposal and the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U531	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U532	Colleagues! The municipalities are currently working on the budgets for next year. And guarantees about what these budgets will be like... It is, in my opinion, very important that it is strengthened by the law so that we do not get into a situation where, if personal income tax fails, local authorities are also caught up in an even bigger crisis, because, however, it is very important that municipal work is planned. No longer can it be planned in the long term, but at least in a cut of the year, so that there can be some stability, so that municipalities can count on the income that, when approving the budget... Although they are much smaller than they should be, at least those municipalities should be. We are already seeing that individual Members are making proposals inside to allocate an additional five million to municipalities, which could in some way help the municipalities of Latgale. But, I note, those five million are six months' help. After half a year, it will take five more so that these municipalities can in some way pull their ends together. And on such a common background to create even more instability, creating budgets, thinking territories, municipalities that really have no chance of generating any income themselves, there is no possibility like... However, there is much broader scope for some form of tax policy or revenue generation in the government budget. There is no possibility for municipalities to do so. Such guarantees would, to a large extent, help municipalities to plan their already difficult budget more firmly. I call for support for this and for the next proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U533	I closed the debate. Mr. Stein, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U534	In the Commission, proposal 9 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U535	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 30, for - 51, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U536	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Bergmanis. As Mrs Reizniece-Ozola has already said, the proposal is somewhat different but equal to proposal 9. There is no support and no vote in the Commission, but there is a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U537	Indeed, this proposal cannot be voted on and Members have not applied in the debate. The debate is therefore not taking place.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U538	11. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Technically, specify the norm. Partially supported, included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U539	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U540	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission clarified the provision submitted by the Ministry of Finance and improved it in the light of the recommendations of the Legal Office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U541	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U542	13. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Technical specification of the provisions. As the commission was informed, the rules were also agreed with the industry. In the Commission, the 13th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U543	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U544	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Bergmanis. The proposal relates to the repayment arrangements for the aid granted, provided that certain conditions are met. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U545	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U546	We have prepared this proposal in order to avoid the situation we experienced in the spring when a number of companies that were supported in a few weeks' time... months was asked... has been ordered to repay this aid, also on the ground that the State Revenue Service has unduly paid the aid due to excessive pressure, possibly failing to respect in certain cases that the entrepreneur does not have to receive such aid, thus also creating a huge burden and dissatisfiedness among the entrepreneurs... the mere fact that the aid in the form of soft pay was paid and paid to employees, while the claim for compensation for this aid paid was directed against undertakings. Accordingly, we supplement this provision, which in the draft law imposes an obligation on the person to whom the aid has been unduly paid, voluntarily repaying it, with the reservation that it must be done... That is, the aid must be repaid voluntarily if it has not occurred due to negligence or negligence of the State Revenue Service. If the aid was paid due to negligence or negligence of the State Revenue Service, it would not be justified to request its recovery in such a case. We are invited to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U547	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the proposal by Member Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Bergmanis! Please vote mode! For - 29, for - 51, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U548	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. This proposal also provides for a change in the terms and conditions for the repayment of the aid granted if certain criteria are met. The Commission also said that the proposal would duplicate the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Law. And as a result of the discussions, this proposal, 15, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U549	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U550	Dear colleagues, The fact that this proposal seems (in some opinion) to duplicate the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Law - I will disagree with it because it clarifies how the State Revenue Service should formulate its positive administrative acts, specifying exactly what criteria are. Only if such criteria are indicated when it comes to finding that an economic operator has been abused and has not complied with these criteria can benefits be recovered. Let me explain why. This is also partly due to our request to Mr Reira for that time... including the recovery of three euro from economic operators. We did not reply, either from Mr Reira or from Mrs Jaunzeme, on whether those statements, which were sent out to economic operators, mentioned concrete, clear and clear criteria which economic operators must fulfil, so that they did not have to wait for a letter from the State Revenue Service in due course with a call for reimbursement. Such criteria are therefore not clearly defined. Thus, taking into account also the chaotic course of decision-making and the fact that, well... I do not know who is now able to track all the rapid changes, so this precise administrative act for the entrepreneur should have specific criteria that must be met. I could give an example of a very recent view of the businessman Vanaga, who mentioned the specific situation. Thus, if the company is hard, but there is a change in the means of production, for example, the restaurant sells its equipment while it is not working. This means, in turn, that they are revenues from economic activities. The fact that these revenues from economic activities must be explained to the State Revenue Service how these revenues cannot be obtained – this is the work of the State Revenue Service, which is most likely not being fulfilled at the moment. Such an explanation must therefore be included in detail in each decision, so that we do not under any circumstances find ourselves in a situation such as the recovery of benefits. It's a shameful situation. And not always, as we understand, was the fault of businessmen, because it was also due to unclear writings and unclear circumstances. Here in this proposal there is nothing that could cause any additional inconvenience to the State Revenue Service. It is simply a matter of fulfilling our responsibilities. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U551	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U552	Yes, thank you, colleagues. I tabled a similar proposal, but given that if you vote against Mrs Stepanenko's proposal, I will not be able to vote... But I would also like to base our proposal on the fact that, in order to ensure that the principle of legitimate expectations is respected and to ensure that taxpayers have clearly understood the criteria and the position on which the State Revenue Service is based, when making its decision, first granting the aid in question, there must also be very strict conditions or, indeed, established contradictory facts on the part of the taxpayer, in order to deprive or tell the taxpayer of the need to return the funding granted during a corporate crisis. This version of our proposal provides for clear, understandable and simple wording in the relevant SRS document received by the taxpayer. And then he will not have any questions, no misunderstanding or any bitter feeling, because he will know if he has not acted in accordance with the relevant and defined articles of the document, then he may face risks. But if he is not informed clearly and clearly about what he needs when he receives support, then misunderstandings arise and bitterness in society is only increasing. Uncertainty situation, psychological discomfort situation, ignorance situation... and including the government itself, the Cabinet of Ministers, changes the rules of the game sufficiently quickly and also introduces appropriate restrictions, but time for explaining and raising awareness is very limited. Unfortunately, the Administrative Procedure Act does not provide for specific, detailed explanations to be provided in an administrative act, which is why this proposal also contains a definition with clarification. I therefore ask my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U553	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U554	Yes, my fellow Members, apart from all the arguments that have already been raised, I would like to draw attention to another fact that practically reinforces the need for such regulation to be included in this law. For us, the next draft law is the “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”. There is a very clear norm, where it is highlighted that the State Revenue Service does not provide guidance to entrepreneurs in relation to support programmes. This means that in this situation, when there is such a short time to lay down rules for the government... And in such a short period of time, there are mistakes, uncertainties, and imprecise wordings. Logically, there are a lot of questions and also possibilities for interpretation. In such a case, entrepreneurs should also be given the opportunity to find out whether, at least in the State Revenue Service, what the precise details of the application of the rules are in order to understand whether they really qualify to understand whether they will not have to repay the aid at a later stage. We had tabled a proposal that - quite the contrary - the State Revenue Service should provide such information, but the majority of Members regrettably rejected it at the commission meeting. In such a situation, when the State Revenue Service separates and says: “No, we will not explain to you, we will not provide any further information!” , the more responsible it is for each decision to be clearly justified, reducing the risk for the operator to receive unjustified aid, which is then very difficult to repay, because it is difficult to divide the bread that is eaten then to friends or give back to someone alike. The money that has been received has been put into use, paid to employees, provided money is in circulation, pulled it out of the pocket, especially when every euro is hard to earn during the crisis, it is practically impossible. This is also why companies are being desperate. We really have a few months, too... I don't know, colleagues, you really don't have anyone to tell or write? Even though feisbuck those specific cases. We have seen such cases, we have been told, we have been told how desperate entrepreneurs are when they are being asked to repay the money. In order to reduce the risk to ourselves, the state and business, I think this is the minimum we can do for ourselves. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U555	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U556	Yeah, I'll just give you one example. Until recently, there was a public news in all the media that the businessman, the owner of GROS AUTO, has probably committed suicide. I would remind you that this businessman was the only one who did not come to mind was the State Revenue Service. The only one of all creditors because there were no other liabilities. So I think you need to draw conclusions where you bring Latvian people, Latvian entrepreneurs. I think you are acting against the people of Latvia, against all people living in Latvia. I do not understand how in your interests you are acting why it is a pity to support the Latvian society. Do you have any other leadership to force you to do so - against our people? It's not clear to me. Where is the problem, why do you not want to help people? Help people - it's a happy job, though. That is why you have already been elected to help people, not to give up all the time, to vote against, 'no', 'no', 'no', and then to boast what you have once again been'success stories' or what is there. We see that every person sees what "success story" is for Latvia. We also see this "success story" from the average gross domestic product in Europe, where we have a clear competition with Romania and not with Lithuania and Estonia. Unfortunately, in today's circumstances, I have to say to you that it is clear to anyone who understands something from the economy that during our lives we will probably not reach Lithuania and Estonia anymore, because it is impossible to do so if one drives to 80 and the other drives to 50. And we're not the ones who go to 80. All questions, all in a row! Lithuania... Have you read the message today? In Lithuania, one-hundredth of aid, if jobs are maintained, will be paid salaries to entrepreneurs in order only to preserve jobs. In Latvia, I will think, I don't know, sometime - when someone else will have committed suicide. I think... I think you do not understand where you lead the people of Latvia, and you do not understand what will happen to you, if you continue to do so, because the people also have a measure of patience and it is becoming more and more despondent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U557	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U558	Colleagues, as far as I am aware, are, at our request, suing Mr Reira for the recovery of benefits in certain cases. We would also be very happy to know how businesses are doing on this issue, but I would really like to remind you that an administrative act favourable to the addressee can be repealed if at least one of these circumstances and a particular circumstance... one of them is an administrative act issued under another condition and that condition is not at all fulfilled, is not properly fulfilled or is not met in good time. So these conditions must be absolutely clear - absolutely clear! - so that the operator can know, on receipt of this document, whether he actually fulfils this condition or not, because in particular, the example I mentioned on income from economic activities is very widely regarded. And if, of course, the State Revenue Service may, for its part, consider that a condition has been imposed - in a particular situation, an entrepreneur has not fulfilled this condition - then immediately knocking at the door and asking... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U559	I closed the debate. Mr. Stein, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U560	In the Commission, proposal 15 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U561	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! On - 31, against - 52, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U562	As Mrs Schvekov mentioned, 16. - the Member's proposal is identical to 15 and is not put to the vote, but is to be debated.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U563	Members do not want to debate. Go to the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U564	17. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. There shall be a change over the period and the second paragraph of Article 19 shall also be supplemented by the last sentence: ‘Right to that benefit’, which is a new specialist allowance, ‘a person shall have once regardless of how many times an emergency situation has been declared due to the spreading of Covid-19’. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U565	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U566	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U567	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U568	19. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. It provides for the possibility for associations and foundations to use the funding provided for in the donation (donation) contracts for the implementation of activities next year and sets a deadline for the submission of the report. The Commission shall be supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U569	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U570	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Members Latkovska, Kursītes, Jušas, Pavļuta and Jansons. It is foreseen that in 2021, the Cabinet of Ministers shall grant a one-off additional grant to municipalities with low-eparable revenues compared to the national average and high unemployment rates for the implementation of the Covid-19 crisis management measures and its consequences. The additional one-off grant shall not exceed a total of EUR 5 million. Partly supported by the Commission, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U571	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U572	Well, colleagues, I will, of course, call for this proposal to be supported, but I would also call on one person to think about what situation we are in today - if we take 90 million off from local authorities with one hand, then now with such small pencils... Here, by nature, this money payment will certainly help the municipalities of Latgale. We can even calculate how much Daugavpils will be, how much Rēzekne municipality and other municipalities will be. And it will affect mostly Latgale municipalities. However, there are other municipalities that will not be helped in any way by this proposal. I think that, overall, there will be another 50-60 municipalities that will not receive assistance. Of course, we can talk about the most affected municipalities, but this does not ultimately help those municipalities in which this is the case... If income level is... If we're looking at Riga... shared with three... whether they have a higher or slightly lower unemployment rate than perhaps in the municipality of Dagda - this does not in any way improve the socio-economic situation of this area. Therefore, colleagues, these five million could only help for six months and only one small part of the municipalities. At least nine million would be needed to be able to equalise the income drop to no more than four per cent in the country for all municipalities, but that too would be too little for me to forgive. And I have to think about solutions that would help municipalities keep their basic revenues, namely the financial base - not the project money, or something else, but it is this financial base. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support for this proposal, but that is just a little finger of what these areas really need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U573	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U574	Colleagues! Looking at this proposal, such a dual feeling - on the one hand, the pleasure that at least something is taking off the municipalities, on the other hand, clearly shows that, colleagues from the coalition, you have reached a new level. Well, since that's the second round of computer games with MEPs' quotas. If, in the past, this was typical, only with the adoption of the draft state budget, and we saw that the draft budget for 2021 did not happen without private initiatives by individual Members to arrange churches, sports infrastructure and elsewhere, then now we see that there is another law - the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, in which Members' quotas are already appearing. A typical member's quota is EUR five million, to be distributed among municipalities. With such a great deal of ambition, after you have taken up a total of EUR 90 million for all the municipalities, in fact to a large extent, the potential for regional development. Five million... It would be interesting to hear what are the considerations for this amount, if you know clearly that the Latvian Municipal Union also prayed, the opposition members who had consulted the Latvian Municipal Union asked and prepared proposals to provide you with at least the necessary nine million euros to compensate for the drop in revenue for those municipalities whose revenue would fall by more than four percent. And it is still in a situation where next year's draft budget predicted a growth of 5.1 per cent of gross domestic product! I call for this proposal to be supported, but at the same time I call for the principle of these quotas to be retained and for other members of the coalition to be put together in five levels so that the local authorities at least have a very low level of polite funding. Let us also support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U575	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U576	Dear colleagues, I'll try briefly. Of course, five million - this is also a benefit for these municipalities, which will need expenditure and income... income will have a large drop compared to this year. I haven't counted how much that drop will be, it won't be four percent, it will be, somewhere maybe about five percent. Well, okay, thank you for the same thing in every case. I understand that it has been heard that local authorities need funds. I hope that this will not be the last decision on the financing of municipalities for the following year. I hope there will be further additions, amendments. These five million - I think this is about finding this kind of means for the time being. If possible, I would ask the coalition to give further consideration to the support for the future... further support for increased funding for municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U577	I closed the debate. Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U578	The Commission was therefore partly in favour of the proposal and included in proposal 21.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U579	Members have not requested a vote. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U580	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. The Commission created a version that specified certain indicators, which are two: i.e. at least 10 per cent lower income than the national average, and the unemployment rate is higher than the national average. Then eligible for this grant. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U581	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U582	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Clarifying terminology. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U583	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U584	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Article 37 shall be supplemented as follows: ‘The provisions of this Article shall apply mutatis mutandis to meetings of members of political parties as well as to meetings of elected representatives and meetings of associations of political parties.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U585	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U586	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative specification of the norm. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U587	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U588	25. - Member Gobzem's proposal. There are changes to the regulation governing the formation of a political party, including only the use of a secure electronic signature, confirming the acceptance of the decision to establish the party. It has to be said that the Commission had a very wide-ranging debate on this issue. There was even a threat to the Saeima and Members to complain in court, but in general it has to be said that there were arguments on the part of the government that the regulation developed allows for the establishment of a political party during an emergency... and explained the merits of these claims. The representative of the Bureau of Law also explained the role of the notary in the process of establishing the party, and also referred to historical arguments in introducing these requirements. The role of a notary has been introduced for security reasons, so that at least those persons, this minimum number of members that are in the formation of a party... that establishes a party would have clearly expressed its consent, which would then also confirm by a notary. It is also important to mention that in such a procedure we avoid situations in Latvia, that the signatures of the founders are collected on the street and later persons don't know at all that they were the founders of a political party, as in our history. A party is not a common society, as the commission has said, but it is designed to implement public power, so the requirements must also be high. However, I would remind you that there is, and that is, the possibility of being established in the draft law. Specific proposal - 25. - the Commission is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U589	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U590	Good evening, everybody! The nature of the proposal is therefore that there is a proposal that a party can be established remotely by signing an electronic signature. That is, today we have adopted all the laws in the Saeima by means of an electronic signature. No notary has verified how many Members of the Saeima are in common judgment, all have signed an electronic signature, and everything is fine. First. Secondly. The proposed regulation of the Ministry of Justice provides that no person - the hundreds of thousands that are abroad - can participate at all in the formation of a party because there are restrictions on movement. More severe decisions are being taken today, the government has just taken more severe decisions on the movement. And the wording proposed by the government is that a remote meeting is held and then, in principle, in breach of any epidemiological security needs, all these hundreds go to the notary physically, although all this can be resolved by means of an electronic signature in the same way. It will be a simple humor that today the Saeima will vote with an electronic signature against the fact that the party could be established by signing an electronic signature, people both in Latvia and abroad, and will leave the wording that in fact the party cannot be established by all those people who live abroad (they are hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Latvia), and that all those who cannot leave their homes or who have restrictions on moving will not be able to do so. That is absolutely absurd. Thirdly, the argument that, yes, was on the street is absurd. I'm sorry! 500 people are needed to participate in the elections. Two thirds of these people are not tested by a notary; they can be read in every ditch every flounder for each party. So there are nine Bordans, the whole Newup Familia is in that lot, I think, and in that spirit. You don't need any notaries there. This is just an obstacle so that Gobzem cannot create a party and the people cannot set up a party, but we will do so on 8 January - either we will drive 200 cars, and a notary will walk you around, or we will do so remotely on the table, or we will do so in Valga, our neighbouring Estonia, which is also a Member State of the European Union, where a notary will be able to confirm all of this in his presence. So there are at least three options. 8 January - melt or rupture! - Gobzema party will be established in Latvia and you will be forced to register it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U591	The floor in the debate is for the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U592	Good evening, honourable Members! I would like to give myself and the Ministry of Justice a brief explanation and to dispel the concerns about the process during which a political party is to be formed. At the moment, as we know, the law provides that a political party may be formed if the founding meeting is present, and I stress that an sworn notary is present, who confirms the conduct of the founding meeting of the political party, namely that the particular founders, who must be able to be citizens, and including at least 200, express the wish to establish a party, as well as the decisions taken at the meeting, thus the elected governing board, the statutes and the programme of the party. Although during the community, citizens would not be denied the right to join parties established by the Constitution, the Ministry of Justice has come with a proposal to include a derogation from the general procedure in the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, namely to allow the formation of the party meeting at a distance. In this case, after the meeting, each founder would confirm his signature to the notary... consent to the minutes of the remote meeting. The involvement of a notary would ensure the authenticity of the process and would confirm that the person concerned has participated in the formation of the party and really expresses that wish. I would like to emphasise that, despite the emergency, we could not, however, waive any of the requirements currently laid down by law for the establishment of a party. The proposal of the Ministry of Justice in this draft law currently provides for a more mild, so to say, a notary statement than that laid down in the Law on Political Parties. I draw Mr Gobzema's attention to the fact that we in the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia have confirmed that I will be able to confirm the consent of the founders by electronic means, in a remote way, I stress. The founding members of the party will have two options. So the person will be able to make his signature certified either in person or at a distance. But about the fact that the electronic signature would be valid here... However, the electronic signature, I stress, does not in any way indicate that the person has actually participated in this remote meeting. Signature is... the signature is a signature on the document. And from the fact that a person has signed a document, it can in no way be concluded that he has also participated in a particular meeting. And the electronic signature is not equivalent to a notarised signature; moreover, the notary confirms the capacity of the person in the event of the party being established, but...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U593	Mr. Vytol, time. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U594	Well, you have just heard the full demagogy of a representative of the Ministry of Justice from the public, namely I would like to know who notary has said that DigiNotaar can serve 200 people at the same time? In addition, how will a notary verify that these 200 people have actually been on-the-spot on that day if the notary is not legally present? And how will foreign Latvians who have to comply with self-insulation be able to do so within 10 days - go to a notary? That's one thing. Second. The Parliament of the Republic of Latvia can adopt laws with an electronic signature, and then everything is fine. They are binding on Latvia as a whole. But simply a single party cannot be established with an electronic signature, because it is, here, a terriblely dangerous one. Then lawmaking is also dangerous, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U595	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U596	Dear colleagues, I am also a little surprised by the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. We're supposed to be 10-15 active debaters in the Saeima... and together with the chair of the sitting, which can actually be identified through the computer screen... It seems to be understandable that, since we are debating a lot, we may also be voting on specific draft laws ourselves. For the rest of our colleagues, we cannot really know whether they are sitting there or sitting there... Well, for example, what didn't debate us today? I don't know... We didn't hear specifically today... Yes, Mr. Riekstini was. Don't come right away... Well, Mr. Geidan, for example. We don't know if he's voting right now, if he has given it to someone else's computer, for example, or if someone else has taken it. But decisions remain binding on the rest of society. All the more, colleagues! Today we are on the agenda... whether tomorrow's agenda will be a very important decision - the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. And they will also happen electronically. So... Yes, I see, Mr. Geidan is here, it's good, we checked. But therefore, colleagues, such a decision of the Saeima, using an electronic signature, in the view of the Ministry of Justice, is also unlegitimate, if we are talking about election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. I understood from today's debate, from the representative of the Ministry of Justice that the Ministry of Justice will not consider that the new elected judge of the Constitutional Court is legitimately elected and that he is just as full as the other judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you, I'm clear in that case. But the logic we heard from the Ministry of Justice doesn't pass any criticism when we talk about an electronic signature. There are so many things that our citizens can do by means of an electronic signature, a whole range of services that is also created, knowing that a particular person is the same person who uses this electronic signature. However, with regard to the establishment of parties (which are, in fact, citizens' right to take part in politics and, in principle, would not be more, let us say, regulated like any other service), there are obstacles to this, and we are hearing really funny arguments. I will call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U597	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U598	Dear colleagues, In a moment's time - you can predict - the coalition Members will use a secure electronic signature to reject the proposal to establish a political party by means of a secure electronic signature. Then, after some time, the Constitutional Court will consider this case as this new regulation and it will be considered by a judge, who will be elected for that moment using a secure electronic signature. I think there is no more to talk about here, and there is no more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U599	Name to Andris Vītols, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U600	Yeah, thank you. I just wanted to emphasise briefly that the requirement for notary participation in the formation of a party was introduced on the recommendation of anything other than the national security authorities, because unfortunately there were precedents where national unfriendly entities founded parties, but the person appears not to have known what they had signed or had not signed at all. However, a political party is subject to special rights, a political party also receives public funding, and it would be right to make such demands here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U601	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U602	Highly honored Ministry of Justice! Stop discrediting yourself! Stop discrediting the rule of law with such speeches! Your logic is that - again! - when Members of the Saeima vote on this proposal, on other proposals and so on, real Members of the Saeima - they need to have a notary to check whether they understand what they are voting on, to check their capacity. Well, you're talking here that... You really think that tomorrow will never come, and you can say absolutely anything, and that's all it will not come to the mind of no one, that it's some sort of stupidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U603	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U604	Colleagues, it really seems that Mr. Vītol is smiling for his own arguments, because I have no other explanation in this case. The even more ridiculous argument that we have heard is that the parties receive public funding, and that is the main argument why we will now examine every notary who has signed up to the party. Mr. Vitol, you know what happens to the parties? When these parties have accordingly received the voter's confidence. And to get voters' trust, with a signature, with a simple signature on the e-platform will not be enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U605	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U606	Yes, colleagues! One of our Saeima Members is determined to establish a political party. I fully believe that he will succeed in this, regardless of how we vote in favour of this proposal. But what we can do is we can do something against him, because if we are talking about specific situations, then it is not that someone in the country would like to start up political parties at this point. Well, there's, in principle, one active politician who has announced it. We have a whole range of different parties that exist and exist, and they work, but there is one very specific initiative for new parties - Alda Gobzem, Member of the Saeima. This is his vision of how political parties in these circumstances... This is not a daily case, it is very difficult conditions in which a time has been chosen to set up a party. In my opinion, the arguments put forward by Mr Gobzem... If this proposal were to make the situation simpler, it would be welcome. If, today, in such circumstances - namely at the time of the Covid-19 - someone wants to establish a party, the method chosen by him is exactly what has been said in this proposal. Of course, the Ministry of Justice is right, there are some derogations currently made, but in a way any of these derogations are actually quite absurd, because in the present case, if you know what happens now, this verification of identification by notaries is that, quite simply, the identity document is shown in the camera, and that is the whole proof of it. Well, then, if you really want to, you can call John Burzine and Peter still at one and give them documents and make them show in the camera. And hardly a notary through that camera will really be able to see -- there's or not the real man. So the system is already a very complex issue. What the parties do next... And this further control is a completely different issue, but in these circumstances to establish... I think we can be a little more modern and make derogations precisely in these, well, relatively difficult circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U607	I closed the debate. Mr. Stein, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U608	Yes, I can even assure you that, among the arguments I mentioned, there was also a notary examining the individual's capacity, which is a very important requirement. This proposal, 25, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2171-U609	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 31, for - 53, for - 3. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Members Pavļuta, Šteina, Beitneres-Le Gallas, Kalniņa and Adamovič to declare a break from 19.00 on December 17 in the second remote emergency session and to continue the discussion of the agenda of the meeting at 9 a.m. on December 18. Colleagues, we have to vote for this. Please enable the procedure section. Please call me! We will vote for the break of the Saeima today, December 17, in the second remote emergency session until 9 a.m. on December 18! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against - 3, it's not. So we have voted for a break at 9 a.m. tomorrow. But, my fellow Members, I would like to inform you that this evening, after this parliamentary sitting, there will also be a Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications to decide on the authorisation of a new Member of the Saeima, who will take the place of our loyalty here in the Saeima today. The Saeima Bureau will therefore decide tomorrow that the mandate should be approved at the Saeima meeting and will convene such a meeting at 9 a.m. You will then be informed that at 9.00 a.m., perhaps first there will be an approval sitting for this mandate and then, 15 minutes after the confirmation meeting, if the Bureau convenes it, we will continue the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 17 December. Now the registration of Members. It has been a success. I'm taking a break. Colleagues, have a nice evening! Goodbye. ( Interruption)
