ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U1	Honourable Members! Let's continue the sitting. Thus, the agenda includes the annual national budget and the second reading of the related draft laws. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’. Proposal 15 on which we are starting a debate. If Members want to... So we are starting a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! Returning to our debate yesterday on masks, I would like to remind you... I understand that this proposal cannot be voted on, because yesterday you have already decided that you do not agree that medical certified masks and hygienic washing masks should be exempt from VAT. I understand that this is your decision, but I think the discussion should continue, because, as my colleagues and I noted yesterday, if the country makes it an obligation, then the country should get the opposite and at least reject the collection of VAT on these transactions. If not, these masks must be distributed free of charge. I would like to add to this that, also in the course of the discussions on the mandatory carrying of masks, several members of the coalition - Juris Rancāns and Artus Kaimiņš - expressed, in my opinion, a very logical idea that these masks should be distributed free of charge. Ideally, this is the case. So my opinion, too, in this case, is probably not so radical and populist, if we compare it to a coalition colleague whom you, dear fellow coalition colleagues, do not consider populists and unreasonable people, because they work with you. I therefore understand why yesterday, too, when my colleague Aldis Gobzem expressed the same view that the masks should be distributed free of charge, he was stopped in half name from the chair of the sitting. I understand that there should not be any criticisms about the conduct of the sitting, but I do not understand that we can still say. Therefore, colleagues, let us continue this discussion, and I very much hope that at least one of you would suspect that such a country would not be allowed to get into the country at the expense of masks. Well, you cannot vote in favour of this proposal, but please note that it is... that this proposal will not stay anywhere and we will talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U3	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U4	In the Commission... Good morning! In the Commission, this proposal was not supported in the same way as the previous one and not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U5	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U6	16. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is editorial and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U7	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U8	17. There is a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Yalinska. It is envisaged to exclude paragraph 30 of the transitional provisions of the law. Commission (Not to be heard) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U9	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U10	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This proposal provides that the reduced value added tax of five per cent on fruit, vegetables and berries should be preserved without a time limit, as the draft law, as you have certainly observed, once again provides for the next transitional period. Well, when we look at the situation in the fruit and vegetables sector, since the value added tax has been reduced, we see a number of positive indicators, and it is clear that the introduction of a rate has justified itself by producing results in the fruit and vegetables sector as a whole. We see that fruit and vegetable production has increased by 8.5 percent, that the value of production has increased by 45 percent, that the external trade of fruit, berries and vegetables has improved, and that the average number of workers in the sector has increased by almost six percent and that of legal trade by 20 percent. And what is also visible is that the number of irregularities in the sector has decreased significantly and the amount of taxes paid has increased significantly. These are indicators which show that the reduced value added tax in the sector was worth all... with all the caution that I, as a finance minister at the time, am, of course, concerned about the fact that there would simply be a fall in income and there would be no expected effect... I am, I must say, very satisfied. Why it would be important for this sector to not hold the current Damocla sword above its head at the moment, setting the next three-year period - some stability is needed. If it is not so important for vegetables and berries, then for fruit, because, as I said, one of the indicators is the increase in areas, it is clear that, for example, the growing of fruit trees takes more than one year. And that is why stability is needed so that fruit producers can plan their activities, their investments, their investments at least a few years ahead. And a three-year period - that is, I must say, too little. We can see that these results are also good for reducing the shadow economy, so once again, to give hope to those who have used this sector for VAT schemes, so that they could return again in three years' time, too, I think it is not particularly wise. I think it is necessary to give businesses stability to work fairly. This is a proposal that we have also discussed with farmers' organisations, and they agree that it would be very important not to set a new period at the moment. There may be criteria to be set for the industry to show over the next years - turnover growth, another criterion can be set, but it would be important not to limit this period. I urge you to support this proposal by voting in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U11	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U12	Yes, colleagues, I, too, call on you to support this proposal, because once again, this reduced VAT has been introduced and proved to be effective, as my colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has already pointed out. These figures showed a steady increase in a number of areas, tax collection increased and the shadow economy decreased. Consequently, I am also of the opinion that this proposal, this amendment, must be left to the rest, because what we should work on now, should be introduced experimentally for other groups of food and should look at how we are going there. The fruit and vegetables sector is already in order, it continues to sort out even further, removing from the shadow the remaining maybe some taxpayers who want to pay the full set of this here... But if we are talking about the strange behaviour of the Ministry of Finance in the area of the introduction of reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables, I would like to point out here that I think it is necessary to get explanations from the Ministry of Finance on why... with just a little time... in the interim, we hear from the Ministry of Finance strongly not with the arguments made publicly by the Ministry of Finance, why, in their view, the reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables should under no circumstances continue. And at the same time, so after a little time, we are hearing a laudable opinion from the Ministry of Finance, namely that this reduced VAT... Now actually share all that the opposition has also presented in its arguments in the fight for reduced VAT... So, repeating all these arguments and then... I actually have... It seems to me that such a feeling of insecurity arises in the country if the Ministry of Finance can make such a drastic change of opinion (in this case, of course, positive or negative). But the way in which the Ministry of Finance can defend one opinion with the same zeal and then (not to explain anything why the opinion changed suddenly)... then, equally enthusiastically, to praise ourselves for ‘now we will continue to fight the shadow economy in the fruit and vegetables sector’, I think... I really doubt the competence of the Ministry of Finance, the ability of the Ministry of Finance to count and understand the reality. Because, as we said, when we fought for reduced VAT for other food groups, we saw different calculations with annual differences. At first, there was an estimate - from 50 to 60 million, so this proposal on bread, milk, eggs and meat will bring less to the public budget, and this year it is already 80 million. Consequently, in my opinion, we cannot take everything that the Ministry of Finance is currently saying seriously at all. We cannot take equally seriously the fact that the Ministry of Finance is currently advertising this state budget with paid advertising in which they say "your tax is your country". We will talk about this today. Thank you. I call for this proposal to be supported and for the reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables - it must be on the table and create a real sense of security for economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U13	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U14	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. -Proposals by the resellers-Ozola, Valaiņa, Many, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Yalinsk! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 50, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U16	18. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is provided to supplement and clarify point 39 of the transitional provisions on the arrangements for the refund of the amount of value added tax overpaid. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U18	19. is a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U19	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U20	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Yalinska. Neither is it supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U21	And neither can it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U22	There are also 21 Members' proposals from Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Yalinska. There is no support and no vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U23	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U24	22. There is a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklav, Valaiņa and Yalinska. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U25	And you can't vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U26	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Dombrovskis's proposal. There is no support and no vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U27	There is therefore no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U28	24. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. The transitional provisions shall be amended, shall not be supported by the Commission and shall not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U29	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U30	25. - The proposal from Member Slurry. There is no support and no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U31	There is therefore no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U32	26. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U33	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U34	27. - The proposal from Member Slurry. It also provides for the addition of transitional provisions. There is no support and no vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U35	Therefore, it is not possible to vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U36	Also 28. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. There is no support and no vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U37	There is therefore no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U38	29. - The proposal from Member Slurry. There is no support and no vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U39	There is therefore no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U40	30. is a proposal by Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Yalinska. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U41	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U42	31. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U43	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U44	32. - The proposal from Member Slurry. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U45	And neither can it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U46	I call for support for the second, final reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Protection of Victims of the Accidents of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant” second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U48	We shall continue to see the draft budget package. This draft law contains one proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group, which provides for the level of benefit to be determined. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U49	Members don't mind... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U50	I invite you to support the draft law at second, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U51	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on social protection of the victims of the accident at Chernobyl nuclear power plant in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U52	Good morning, colleagues! Thus, five proposals have been made to the Social Security Act. Proposal No 1 - from the Social Democratic Party of the Accord. This implies a change in the formula for calculating the minimum income thresholds, so that the minimum income thresholds should not be lower than 20 per cent of the median income and that the minimum income thresholds should be revised once a year. This proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U53	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U54	Proposal No 2 also comes from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. This implies a change in the calculation of the minimum income thresholds, also based on the calculation of the minimum subsistence, let us say, what the basket is, and also the calculation of that minimum annual... a subsistence minimum basket. The budget and financial (tax) commission does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U55	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U56	Dear colleagues, We're... I think all those who see in the networks that the Ministry of Finance promotes this budget for taxpayers' money... and on the section that forms part of the social... I think we should all be very clear about the fact that almost all decisions made in the social field were the result of judgments of the Constitutional Court. There is a judgment of the Constitutional Court, and then the government is forced to increase funding in some areas. I think rhetoric is a question, colleagues, of whether the government would make exactly the same decisions if this Constitutional Court judgment had not been. And I also think it is worth remembering that what initiated all its claims against the Constitutional Court was neither the government nor the Ministry of Welfare, nor any political parties, it was the Ombudsman Juris Jansons. But, colleagues, you also need to know that the Government has not even fully complied with the judgments of the Constitutional Court, that is, the Constitutional Court imposed on the Government the obligation to create a methodology for determining these thresholds, those benefits, that is to say, who are its low-income, poor persons, and how much of the benefits are necessary to enable them to live a life worthy of human dignity in our country. First of all, the Constitutional Court requested this methodology, and the Constitutional Court also requested that this... that, according to this methodology, those benefits should be reviewed at least as a minimum once a year. It was... The Constitutional Court had two very clear requirements, where it also... In the debate, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission was also pointed out by the Legal Office of the Saeima that its two requirements were not met by the government. The government has neither produced any method nor anticipated that this minimum benefit should be reviewed once a year. And I draw your attention, colleagues, to the fact that, for example, in respect of yourself, the government is planning and maintaining a mechanism that reviews government wages precisely once a year and not every three years, as, for example, the government has provided for social benefits. Colleagues, the essence of my proposal is to calculate the so-called minimum of goods, services... the minimum subsistence basket. How to determine and calculate this basket? It's no science or any other fiction. In the world, a number of decades have passed through a number of countries, with very well-established methods of doing so. We're the only one... Well, well... Forgive me, the Ministry of Welfare together with the Ministers or Members (there's an alternative ego) Petraviča is unable to do so for some two years. Trying to formulate a purchase, unable to formulate what they want, nor arrange a purchase for such a basket to be set. The nature of its proposal, colleagues, is not just... There are two proposals - not only to impose such a basket to determine, thus complying with the request of the Constitutional Court, but also to ask the Central Statistical Office to do so, given that the Ministry of Welfare has demonstrated its inability to do so for two years already. In the event of not accepting this proposal, colleagues, you must all be aware that this solution proposed by the Government, the so-called solution, is a guaranteed way to another judgment of the Constitutional Court that is unpleasant to the Government and the ruling coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U57	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U58	Hello! The judgements of the Constitutional Court say that it is the duty of the legislator to establish a uniform method for establishing the thresholds of minimum income and to develop a set of specific criteria for establishing the minimum social assistance; reducing social inequality is one of the most important aspects of the sustainability of society; linking minimum income thresholds to a specific socio-economic indicator in order to ensure their adequacy in relation to the real socio-economic situation in the country, and maintaining a balance between the needs of the person and the opportunities of society. These are the basic concepts established by the Constitutional Court in its judgments. The proposal by Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis is balanced and tells respect for the basic principle, which is programmed in these rulings of the Constitutional Court. Accordingly, during the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, there was a discussion in which the Ministry of Welfare was unable to justify why exactly 20 per cent of the median was actually chosen during the relevant period. And indeed, the Legal Office pointed to a very significant risk that exists when this law was adopted in this form. Why? Therefore, the data that was relevant for 2018 was used in the actual determination and calculation of the median. Thus, by its very nature, the government has already used obsolete data when setting its minimum amount. And in the future it is also planned to be reviewed only once every three years. This is inadequate and completely inconsistent with the economic situation and income changes. Please colleagues support this proposal and ensure that judgements of the Constitutional Court are reinstated in the existing legislation in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U59	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U60	Hello, colleagues! When we discussed the 2021 budget at first reading, I already diagnosed the diseases that this budget has. And one of the most important is imitation of execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court on guaranteed minimum income and social guarantees. It is a real imitation, and a whole series of laws accompanying the budget demonstrate it very clearly. What is the story about? The Ombudsman brought an action before the Constitutional Court, not because he cares for some numbers, but because he cares for people's right to life in our country, because several international organisations, including the OECD and the European Commission, had pointed out that poverty and the risk of poverty in Latvia are a very important burden for our citizens, namely, each fifth of our country is at risk of poverty... And there are both pensioners in this group who receive... minimum wages and families, for example, where one parent produces one child. I would remind you that the Constitution states that Latvia is a socially responsible state. And it is the simulation of the execution of this paragraph that the present government cannot, does not want to see... and doesn't want to do it. If the Government really had a wish to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court, it would really start with what the proposal of Mr Dombrovskis points out - with the development of methodology, with the consumption amending the calculation on strict scientific grounds, no matter who will do it, whether the Central Statistical Office or the Ministry of Welfare, which has to do so according to the fact that it is the Ministry responsible. As we know, there are a number of areas where the Ministry of Welfare shows absolute powerlessness, not to mention the Minister, who at all demonstrates absolute commitment to dealing with matters relating to his own area of responsibility. I think that, when voting in favour of this proposal, at least Members of the Saeima will show that they are aware of the Article of the Satversme that Latvia is a socially responsible state. And this is the minimum reference point - the calculation of the consumption change, a fair calculation to start the way to the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U61	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U62	Dear colleagues, Once again, on this subject, where I now quote the Saeima Legal Bureau... The fact that you will now support, without supporting our proposals, I quote once again the Legal Office of the Saeima, is a “basic error”. A fundamental mistake, colleagues! That's exactly what the Legal Office of the Saeima said about what you... with which you are now going ahead. I would also like to quote one article from lsm.lv to you, colleagues, almost two years ago. The title of the article is as follows: ‘The Minister expects a new minimum standard of living...’. “Our country is the only one in the Baltics for which the so-called "living minimum" basket has not been developed, which would scientifically justify what is the minimum income level needed for living in Latvia. The Ministry of Welfare continues its third attempt to make a livelihood basket. What has failed in the last two governments will now have to be done by the new Minister for Welfare Ramona Petraviča." It's two years ago, colleagues! In brief: “... two governments failed to draw up a living minimum basket. Professor LU: Until now, there has been a disastrous lack of political will to develop this basket. ...” It is in the debate just before... Minister for Finance Jānis Reirs... Either, ‘there has been a failure on several occasions: the Ministry has announced twice... a competition for scientists... but... no scientific organisation... has applied for’. Researchers say: “There is a catastrophic lack of political will. Also, the Ministry of Welfare did not want to go into any detail, because we had no explanatory documents provided there, they could simply ask. They didn't. They chose simply formally to reject everything back.” It's two years ago, colleagues! So in these two years...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U63	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U64	Good afternoon, everybody! Continuing what Vyacheslav has already begun to explain: in fact, this situation is even deeper and even more dramatic, because this problem has not been dealt with deliberately for several years. And I have proved this by my questions and requests both to the Ministry of Welfare and to the Ministry of Finance, who were unable to give these calculations even before the previous parliamentary term. Why is there no such calculation? Why not? Let me explain, because it is very important for society as a whole to see. It is a very significant sign of how this power deals with its problems and tries to keep up with it. That is, if these calculations were to be made, then it would... and these calculations would be justified if a researcher actually had to be given... and there is no problem with researchers making such a study. It's elementary. Even students would. It can be done by any course 3 student... This could be done successfully because there is no missile science here. Just to find out what this minimum subsistence is and to draw up this basket. Why not? Because, if it is drawn up, and on objective facts, objective figures, then it will turn out that most of the society lives below this poverty line and very much of the aid that is being provided is not actually provided, which could have been the duty to provide... They don't want to. And that's an example of how power, this power, solves all the problems. I am unable to transfer my incompetentness to the rest of the community so that it will tow it. Considerably, there was an example of this same emergency when, suddenly, there were some restrictions imposed on society as a whole, but how it will be compensated to be proportionate, their mechanisms still do not exist. And so is this support. That's why it's not... And there is no calculation, and there will be no political will, because in this way power can solve its problems, as it has always done, at the expense of the less prosperous, disadvantaged people. That's what she did in the previous crisis, when she rescued a couple of banks... shareholders of a rich bank at the expense of all pensioners. She continues to do the same. It has always been so. And while... And that's just the order of things. While there are sheep, there will be sickles, and so they also do. I call for this proposal to be supported, because this proposal would enable the truth to be clarified, as it is and should be. And very many, very many people, especially those socially most vulnerable, would benefit from it, because at last we would have fair social support for these people who are not being done now. Under human dignity, human life in general... I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U65	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U66	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, society! I did not understand one question now. Thus, on the one hand, the Constitutional Court has essentially stated that groups of the most socially protected society need to be protected, and amendments to the law “On Social Security” and this proposal 2 speak about it as once, in fact, in order to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The coalition is silent in this case. At the same time, when the judgment of the Constitutional Court on all families has to be enforced, then - as we jump. I think that there should be a second step in the order of things: first of all, those who are the poorest part of society must be protected, and they must act in the interests of this part of society by jumping. This would be the right procedure for cases to comply with judgments of the Constitutional Court and to group, which are more priority, which are less priority in relation to the needs of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U67	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U68	There's nothing to say. This proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Dombrovskis's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 59, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U70	Proposal No 4 is also from Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, and it...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U71	Mr. Eglys, proposal 3!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U72	Yeah, I'm sorry! 3, yeah. This implies that the minimum income thresholds are reviewed at the same time at least once a year. This proposal was not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U73	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal tabled by Member Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava and Valaiņa! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U74	Proposal No 4 comes from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and provides that in the next year, i.e. until 31 December 2021, the Central Statistical Office defines what this minimum will be... the minimum subsistence basket of goods and services and that the threshold for minimum income remains at EUR 109 by the end of next year. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U75	The proposal is not put to the vote, but a debate is possible. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U76	Dear colleagues, Well, you are now probably rejecting this proposal as well... Well, what do you really want to say with this? You would like to say that the judgment of the Constitutional Court does not have to be enforced? Because it is indeed a judgment of the Constitutional Court - to create a methodology. I'm sure none of you can create this methodology... The Ministry of Welfare, as we have seen for years, is not capable of creating this methodology... and then we have the Central Statistical Office. Well, if the Central Statistical Office is not capable or unable to produce such a methodology or, more precisely, to copy it from other countries where it has been operating for decades, then I do not know what we all need to do to our country if. Well then I guess that's really everything. To say so, a complete success story, colleagues. I... This time, so to say, the coalition Members are absolutely silent, but at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax), colleagues, the Minister for Welfare or Member Ramona Petraviča, however, was not so quiet and tried to answer the questions, more precisely, also the questions of the Legal Bureau, why the government is going the way of this fundamental mistake without complying with the judgments of the Constitutional Court. Well, I'm quoting to you now... what Mrs Petraviča replied is (I quote): “We are not guilty. The government asked for the methodology to be taken out. And that's why we're... has only included something in the annotation.’ Although the Minister himself, Mrs. Petravičas, when we asked her whether she supported this decision in the government itself, the decision of the government, goes directly along this path, which fails to respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court... Then Mrs Petraviča had nothing to answer. From that, I think we can quite simply conclude that Mrs Petraviča supported this proposal in the government - namely, not to create any methodology, to review this allowance, the minimum benefit, not once a year, as requested by the Constitutional Court, as required by the Constitutional Court, but every three years. And then after the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission meeting, Mrs Petraviča complained to us that, as a result, it was the evil government that forced her to do so, and ordered her to withdraw the methodology from the bill... and so on. Well, sorry, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U77	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U78	Colleagues! First of all, I would like to ask the rapporteur to report a little more carefully, because the proposal 3 was not the Vjačeslav Dombrovskis proposal, but the proposal of the members of the ZZS, on which, unfortunately, we did not get to debate because of your error. But this is, by its very nature, similar to our proposal and envisages that the minimum income thresholds should be revised every year to complement it (as colleagues have quite broadly set out) why this should be done. I would like to point out that the Ombudsman has also criticised the government's decision to make that this income threshold is revised rather than every... as originally planned, to carry out this review on 1 July each year, so that the minimum benefit corresponds to social reality, but at the Government's meeting of 30 September, the government decided that this review would take place once every three years and that the Ministry of Welfare should have been in the role of a petitioner for the rest of the years that this funding, which is necessary for higher minimum benefits, should be provided for in the budget debate as a matter of priority. This is not acceptable. This means, of course, that once again, this system of minimum income thresholds and social benefits is subject to a political market rather than a clear, unmanipulated, systematic approach. And, my fellow Members, I would also like to point out what had not yet been said today - the decision of the Constitutional Court is aimed at the legislator and not at the executive government, to ensure a system of social support that is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. If the Government made an error, then it is our duty to comply with this decision of the Constitutional Court and to provide that these benefits are reviewed every year regardless of political decisions. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U79	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U80	What is happening in the country must be seen as a single set. Most recently you, the ruling coalition, have also voted for the fact that, when the parliamentary elections take place, the public does not need to know the opinion of the State Audit Office on the state's financial situation... the implementation of the budget or non-compliance with the laws on the part of state institutions. Last night, Latvian Television published research data on what people trust in this country during the pandemic. And no surprise was it that the level of trust that has been observed so far has fallen even lower, because how can you lie? These research results only indicate that people understand that they are lied, that they no longer perceive any information about the truth, and all they want - they want to know the truth. And it is the calculation of this consumption basket at least once a year, not to mention seasonality, that it could also be once a quarter, because, as we know, we are in a northern country where the heating season is very expensive for any citizen's mask. We're not talking about it. But the calculation of the consumption basket would be one step closer to that truth so that we can understand where we all live at all and whether each of us is at the threshold of poverty. I am thinking of the majority of Latvians. Therefore, I will call for this proposal to be supported, because the truth is that the consumer basket in Latvia has not been calculated with any methodology since 2012. For eight years, we have been living like a barn that hides its head in the sand, despite the fact that there are no bars or deserts in Latvia. And finally, once again, this must be done, especially when the head of the government allows us to say to the people that we have as much money as we never do this year. So tell me at what point do you lie, when do you say there is a lot of money, or when do you refuse to calculate the survival threshold in our country once a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U81	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U82	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! On this proposal, I would like to say that, of course, this must be as precise as possible. The minimum income threshold set must be up to date, scientifically and statistically justified, and generally aimed at making any person who, by his or her own efforts, is unable to provide sufficient resources for himself or herself... credit facilities at a time when it needs help... live a life that is appropriate to human dignity. Here I quote one part of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, and the main point is that the thresholds of minimum income should be revised and the starting data should be such that they should be provided in accordance with today's accuracy... the most accurate support mechanism for those most in need. So they're not with such a big shift. At the moment, it's a delay... the output data has been collected over a five-year period, and this proposed solution will not ultimately ensure that data volumes are as accurate as possible so that people have these... receive guarantees that are relevant in the current situation. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal and call for work to be carried out in such a way that the judgment of the Constitutional Court is also, in substance, enforced. The Ombudsman has turned... had applied to the Constitutional Court, won the court, and the legislator also has a certain time limit when this judgment should be enforced. In such a performance as the Saeima now proposes to fulfil this task assigned by the Constitutional Court... I think that the Ombudsman could go to the Constitutional Court again on 1 January and achieve another victory, because the Saeima has not, in essence, complied with the norm, the accusations, which were mentioned in the Constitutional Court, which had to be implemented in legislation. Thank you. I call for this proposal to be supported. This is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U83	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U84	Madam President, Colleagues! Good morning! Well, there has just been a little debate about what is currently ruling in Latvia. The government or still the Saeima. Well, before the relevant documents are amended, it seems that the Saeima, and yet... The government is the formation of the ruling coalition, and the government is indeed protected at the expense of the Saeima’s work, or decisions. So our prestige is not really important. It is important to protect the government. And now, in the context of the budget, it seems that neither the Saeima nor the government will have many points to be proud of what we have really done for the people. Well, there will not be many such points, and they are not without emphasis on the coalition side of this debate, nor is the press talking about it. Because there's obviously nothing to talk about. And... so webinary, monologue, not to respond and not participate in the discussions - it also shows probably the attitude of the government and the coalition's guardians, including themselves... and, above all, against people. Because our families are already watching and assessing how we work, and for every moment they also understand who really are decision-makers, in the most correct way, who are not decision-makers, and why, with such a great deal of hold, protects the government and all, so to speak, the negation allows us to express itself against the Saeima. I think this is wrong, because while the Saeima is still the legislator, we have the opportunity to change... and some decisions still need to be made. Why am I talking like that? Because yesterday, at least what we could watch in the mass media - Prime Minister Kariņš refuses even to give up his wage supplement, the ministerial wage supplement... And then I have a question: are the ministers who have to pay a decent salary... and yet the community's situation is an emergency that allows human humanity to be shown... Whether it is or not, or it is just a calculation, whether it is a desire for power, or a ministry for itself, not for people, or whether it is something other than power, of course, is tested and demonstrated. Shows our essence. The nature of the expressions that we heard here last week, a little bit of a racist connotation... And at this point, I have the question: is the increase in the Prime Minister's or Prime Minister's salary every year proportionate to the small increase that would now be offered to the minimum subsistence? As a percentage, however, this is likely to be higher than the amount indicated in the calculation of the minimum subsistence. It is also quite significant in this difficult situation, where, perhaps, humanity and state wisdom are more important than how they affect budget decisions and discussions. What we now show, what we think and how we think about people is probably more important, and people will appreciate it early or late. To a certain extent, I have a question for coalition partners, coalition Members, who could still change with their decisions, with some proposals being supported or rejected - perhaps, however, the Cabinet and the Prime Minister should also review their remuneration every three years, just as we offer others a review? Then at least it would be clear why and what inscription decorates the Cabinet Hall... inscription... at the top of the Prime Minister's head. Clearly, you have to look back there, and so maybe you don't see it. And yet. One truth for all. One truth for all, so for himself too. I call for this proposal to be supported, knowing that it cannot be voted on... and yet. People will appreciate that we have been thinking about others. Each of us can find himself in such a situation. I do not wish anyone, of course, that we will be dependent on the minimum subsistence. By the way, we tried to spend three months in the family only with the cost of the minimum subsistence cart. And when you write down the results, you can see who you can't give up and who you can't give up living in metropolitan, but regardless of that. Because prices are not growing every three years. Still, I invite you to think about the love of people and how you can look in the eyes of your loved ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U85	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U86	Yes, colleagues, there is no need for any Constitutional Court here to understand that such injustice, when ministers' salaries are growing automatically, is linked to the average wage in the country... In addition, it is amusing that the increase in ministers' salaries takes account of the increase in ministers' salaries in the previous year, so that these wages will not stop growing, because such a mechanism has been introduced, which states that there will now be this increase every year, because by automatically increasing each year's salaries, it will be set off at the next year's level. Well, we have once supported such an interesting mechanism... not us, maybe our colleagues sometime. And the fact that Members of the Saeima have frozen their wages does not mean that these wages will be frozen in ministries - contrary to what you are offering low-income, poor people to really keep up with the level of prices in the country. Yesterday's clumsy justice from our colleagues in the coalition about why, however, ministers have to raise salaries, highlighted a total misunderstanding on budgetary issues in general. The shame was to listen to Mr Zakatistov, who did not even know where the ministerial wage-raising mechanism was. It is likely that Mr Zakatistov also does not understand how the average cost of living in the country is being created, and he has never attempted to survive on the calculation of such a basket. Then, of course, so... I understand that this proposal is not a voteable one, but the injustice is that ministers' salaries are tied to the national average wage set by the Central Statistical Office, but the livelihood basket is not transparent every year. Colleagues, is that fair at all? No, that is not fair, and ministers' salaries should not increase already in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U87	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U88	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Naturally, the consumer basket is an extremely important instrument, not least because it can help to set social thresholds more fairly in order to help disadvantaged categories. The consumer basket is one of the indicators that shows also about the economic health... health condition, on the trends that there are. And that's why there's two moments that we're going to have to deal with... perhaps not today, but starting with the new year, because the consumer basket reflects the consumer situation in current prices, and, more regularly, because we follow how well our economy develops more regularly. A number of things depend on this. Not only is social justice and the protection of social strata, disadvantaged strata, and the improvement of the average standard of living, but also tax policy, as we can immediately follow the effective functioning of tax policy in a basket of consumers. It also depends on how the inflation rate in the country looks, it is immediately visible and visible, and feels... Other indicators of very important economic development are also very important, and therefore we will be forced early or late not only to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court, but also to return to common sense and start thinking about economic development, also using, I would say, semi-scientific techniques, not intuitions or assumptions, which today is the main tool when it comes to serious cases. That's why I... If this proposal is not voted on today and therefore cannot be supported, it does not mean that we should all go back to it from the new year in which the existing budget will already be in force, regardless of the opposition's efforts to offer and improve certain positions in this rather interesting document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U89	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Pause) Mr. Zarins, we can't hear you!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U90	Can you hear it now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U91	You can hear it, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U92	Yeah. So the unwillingness of power to support these opposition proposals is an example of this power's 'uncompromising rule of law', both in terms of... not only with regard to the law, but also with regard to humanity and to the standards of reason, because that is... and it is important for everyone to understand what is happening at the moment. Yesterday, power, this coalition, supported an increase for ministers... Increase in wages for ministers and presidents, with the assumption that it is calculated from the average - this is an important nuance: from the average!... attracting it to the average salary, with a view to doing so every year. So it's one... One principle. And it was justified that it is important, it is correct and it is logical. If that is right, important and logical, why do you not want to offer such a principle to others? You do not want to take this average payment or at least take logically what would be necessary for survival - this level and index it every year. No, you don't want that! What do you think then... Is that so? What is even more ironic is that those ministers, ministers, who have failed to fulfil their duties... The Minister for Welfare for the fact that she has not developed this methodology - she will have a salary supplement! Other people who need it, who need it for life, need to survive - they don't need anything. Well, those rams, they're like a wolf (and a wolf obediently) and they're coming, and I'm going to vote for what they need, and they don't have to take care of them. What is happening at the moment is an example that Latvia has come under a political power cartel, depending on who acts as he wishes. Like in Colombia, those drug cartels simply form their own country, live according to their own laws, according to their own principles. And who'll dare, that's... You don't agree, they're just thrown out of feed survival chains... or excesses not required. By this analogy, this coalition of power is currently in operation. If that is not the case, if you have any logic with which you would be prepared, able now to challenge my words, please apply for a debate. I look forward to you, and society as a whole is waiting. Come here and debate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U93	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U94	Yes, I would like to add the following information on behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. So in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we have supported the task of the Cabinet of Ministers in the proposal 26 of the draft law “On the State Budget 2021”, and I will read it quickly. Thus: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall approve the plan for the improvement of the system of minimum income support by 1 July 2021 and, when preparing the draft law “On the State Budget 2022” and the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework 2022, 2023 and 2024”, the draft budget package shall submit the relevant amendments to the regulatory acts, including the criteria, procedure and method for determining the parameters of the system of minimum income support, as well as the procedure for reviewing the economic development of the country.” So that task is given to the government from the Saeima, and we will follow it. This proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U95	Thank you. Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U96	5. - Group agreement proposal. Provision shall be made for the transitional provision that the fourth paragraph of Article 2.2 shall enter into force one year later, on 1 January 2022. The budget and financial (tax) commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U97	The proposal is not put to the vote. The debate can be held. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U98	Dear colleagues,
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U99	We can't really hear you!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U100	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs was co-responsible for the draft law... accompanying draft laws affecting the social field. And unlike the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the Minister for Welfare did not honour our Commission with its presence... then all (A sound breakdown.) ... was presented without her. In view of this draft law, too, Members had questions on which we could not receive answers. Why (A Sound Break) ... benefits must be reviewed annually, but every three years. Why the methodology has not been developed, and why the decision of the Constitutional Court has not been fully implemented. Yes, we Members have frozen our pay until the end of this term. We have separate Members who are carrying out a parliamentary... Parliamentary Ministry... the role of the representative, and they, unlike us, will receive increased remuneration (not hearable.) ... The benefits granted to mothers and will explain to them why their pay has been increased, but your benefits will not be reviewed... but once every three years. Colleagues, it's not... I am close to those who continue to perform as parliamentary representatives... In the Saeima - to give up the remuneration they receive in the appropriate ministry and to be like us, Members who work (I can't hear.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U101	Mr Orlov, you could hear what you said, but with difficulty. Maybe next time, try to improve your technique, because you have the impression that there is a microphone fault. If the microphone is with the headphones, then perhaps better use the microphone on the computer is better hearing. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U102	Madam President, colleagues. Well, I have to say that I would like to say thank you to Mr Eglitis, who really tried to respond on behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission or at least to provide some additional information. But when it comes to this proposal, which, I understand, cannot be voted, it is good to read in discussions, Mr Eglitis, the Cabinet of Ministers... the planned name. And it is good to say that basically the plan will be approved, how the methodology will be established and the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will be established, but from the Budget and Finance (tax) commission and coalition position we are likely to get much more... not smile that there is a plan to create a bureaucratic document, but get information that you are also planning to increase funding accordingly and to guarantee this funding... in accordance with the plan to also grant. Maybe this plan... You did not say the year before which to do this (or I did not listen), until which year should these Cabinet Regulations be produced and the plan will work. It will probably be approved at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, not at the level of Saeima, which is understandable. Then we would at least find out the amount that you are going to give, and how it would be gradually planned to guarantee this amount, if it were during this Saeima, or whether it would apply to the next year, for example in 2023. At least incorporate that such money is guaranteed and will come from the state budget for raising the living wage. It is probably not exactly 100 euro, but it must certainly be larger. If one of you has tried to live (three months is not good, probably half a year has to live with a minimum subsistence)... then you would also see how real it is for people of different ages. And it's worth trying in experimental order. In any case, if there is still an opportunity, Mr Eglitis, then perhaps a response from you, or also a guarantee of funding, or just a development of legislation (after a planned and approved plan), which will not again have any guarantee in terms of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U103	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U104	Yes, with regard to this proposal and also with regard to the other proposals why they were necessary in this law - this is a very simple principle. It is very important for us, as legislators, to be... create the right framework, which must then be respected by the executive and according to which the necessary statutory implementation is carried out within certain periods of time. What you have mentioned now, Mr Eglitis, was that it felt that either you have still not understood how this power works or you are simply trying to deceive the public now, in some way, to justify. For, that is, what you have told everything there - yes, indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers will then make all of these plans, but it will do it by going out of its limits again. From its point of view, because the law will not lay down a framework, there will not be any principles on which that plan should be drawn up, what should look like then the whole of this amendment and beyond for all of this assistance to the most socially protected people. In turn, if we do not include it in the law, then we already know from life, we know from real life how all this goes on. Nothing does not happen. All things are being circumvented, and there is a complete lenient of power and a complete ignoring of human needs. And that's why you didn't want the law now to record or support all these proposals, because it would no longer allow power to do so, it would have to comply with the law. Although enforcement is no longer important with this coalition. So, colleagues and especially the public, don't give in to illusions! We will get another vanccar, what the Cabinet of Ministers will do - it will absolutely not be what would be normal and should be executed in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. That is why these amendments to the law are not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U105	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U106	Dear colleagues, First of all, thank you to my colleague, Mr. Eglitis, at least for this, I think the first... some explanation or other version within almost the first two days. However, Mr Eglitis, we are not talking about some absolutely new methodology, where there will be some new Latvian innovation. We are talking about a method that has been used in several dozen countries over several decades. We're absolutely not talking about something like that, or... To give the Cabinet a task to come by the end of the year with some ideas about what method might then be. That method has long been known. And what we have seen is for many years now, and this Cabinet of Ministers is not an exception to this practice: not to give the public a response to the question of what is then this minimum subsistence cart. And then, colleagues, there is only one possible explanation that the government is aware of what its answer might be, that certainly this minimum basket is bigger than those 109 euros or how much there. And then it will turn out that a statistically proven truth will come out, which, in principle, the people already know that the number of these people who cannot provide themselves - and the state cannot provide them with this minimum... The worthy life of man is measured in tens of thousands, if not in hundreds. That, in my opinion, is the main reason why the government does not want to do so. Because it doesn't want the truth to come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U107	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U108	Yes, colleagues! On this proposal, I think... In a way, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, indeed for the first time - the second day has arrived! - we hear something, albeit a little pointless, but nevertheless an explanation of why one of the proposals is not supported. And that's why I'd like to say that at the moment the government has written on the transitional terms... We talked about this, for example, waste yesterday... the question of the management of tyre waste, that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Ministers, promises that a new system will be created, that everything will be arranged, and that the third budget will come and is still being promised. Here too. I mean here instead of finding a solution, the easy way was chosen, and that's the easy way was to put it in the transition, to ask, well... that in the next year to develop something, to think about something... But that approach is not really right, in my opinion. It shows only such failure of the government to prepare rules according to the decision of the Constitutional Court. The current regulation will, in my opinion, still be incompatible with the Constitution. And in no way is it... Here (as previous colleagues have mentioned) someone from the coalition or the Members who are going to support such an approach could explain how this provision will then be taken, the level of support has been achieved in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. If it's... By the nature of income levels, if we look at them, it could reach even five years of delay, because the data taken - they are already... create such a situation. In my opinion, these opposition proposals, which were in this draft law, were, to some extent, moving towards the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. This is not happening at the moment. And the reservation made by the rapporteur that the government would work and come with proposals does not really fit here, because the task was to find a solution to the next year's budget, not at some point. And that is "someday" - also the question of whether it will happen "sometime" if we look at existing practices - we are analysing how the government is then proceeding with the promises made by the Saeima. Well, it's execution... Well, to put it mildly, it is not a positive one to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U109	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U110	Good afternoon, colleagues! Going back to methodology. Unfortunately, as we can see, the members of the ruling coalition are not taking part in the debate, following on from this year's practice by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission - opposition proposals are not discussed at all and even adopt... to be honest, not to accept our proposals, and even not to involve representatives of the responsible ministry. I was a witness to that. A number of proposals falling under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health were rejected even without any argument from the Ministry of Health. When it comes to the GMI. It's a pleasure that some... Well, not Members of the Saeima, but Members of our municipality... attempt to develop this methodology on its own. Let me remind you: one year ago, Gatis Līcis, a member of Ķekava City Council, conducted an experiment in which a month tried to survive with 64 euros. I would remind you that he was really surprised to find out that at the end of 2019 20 thousand people in our country received a pension of up to 100 euros, while an additional 250,000 people received a pension of up to 200 euros. I would remind you that, simulating the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, our guaranteed minimum income was raised from 64 euros to 109 euros. Does it make any significant changes? So Gatis Līķis from Ķekava municipality tried to survive with 64 euros. He honestly acknowledged that he had spent all of this money on food only within a month. What did it do? So at the end of the experiment, Līķis had lost eight pounds [8 kg]. At the end of the experiment, the Member has not experienced health problems simply because he has lived in this way for only a month. I would call on the coalition representatives, in particular the welfare ministers, to try and survive with the current GMI - EUR 109 per month - and then inform the Saeima how much weight she has lost at the end of this month. In turn, I would remind Mr. Eglitis that when the National Administration and Local Government Commission examined the draft law “Law on the rental of residential premises” at second reading, he showed a great deal of enthusiasm for the draft law to move forward faster than it did during the committee. He allowed imprudent records of the Bureau of Law and so on. There are, however, subjects that give rise to high levels of energy for Members to direct certain draft laws and to defend certain interests of certain groups. It is a pity that this interest does not include the welfare of Latvian citizens and the ability to determine the amount by which we can actually survive in our country. I sincerely recommend that we create a group in the Saeima that will take on the development of this methodology, even experimenting with the health itself. Thank you and wish you luck in the experiment.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U111	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U112	Yes, then, following on from Regina Lochmele, I have a proposal for a government on how you can act and get there... if you feel that you are otherwise unable to find a fair and reasonable solution that is right: try to do what the robbers of the Middle Ages did. They had found an excellent solution - how to fairly divide the robbery. Well, in this case, it would be a state budget... in your case. One robber is the one who divides what he thinks is honest, and the other robber chooses from the distribution he thinks is due to him and remains to the other. And in this way you will also achieve a really... come to its revelation as to whether you can really survive with these 109 euros or not. Regarding... I, too, cannot add my fellow Members to the enthusiasm that Mr Eglitis has taken part in the debate. Colleagues, be careful, he has not participated in the debate, he has not expressed his opinion, he has simply referred as rapporteur. In this case, he is simply speaking as rapporteur; he has not taken part in the debate. Coalitions... Colleagues from the coalition are still afraid of coming here and participating, because they simply have no arguments, because everything they say simply reveals more and more the essence of this coalition and the real political situation in our country. Colleagues, do... First of all, society, draw conclusions about what is going on, because while there are rams, there will be axe. You will curl until just on the skin nothing goes over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U113	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U114	Dear colleagues, I am not going to make proposals to the government, but I would have proposals to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Listening to what Mr. Eglitis said about the task to the Cabinet of Ministers. Very successfully formulated: go out there, don't know where, bring it, don't know, because in principle there is free hand to government here - to do what they want, what they want, and maybe to submit to the Saeima the same product that has been submitted so far. I therefore think that such tasks should, however, be sufficiently specific, precise and even more time-limits. That's the point one. Two points. To me, to be honest, there is a certain scandal with regard to the intellectual potential of the government apparatus, as shown by a number of draft laws coming to the Saeima. And so the activities of Saeima Members alongside the Cabinet of Ministers are extremely important. It is also extremely important if the Saeima gives the Cabinet of Ministers or individual ministries specific tasks to ministers, where it would be known what will appear as a result - a positive or negative answer (this is one of the questions), as well as what product will appear as a result. That is why, in any case, the debate on some of the proposals made during the debate in the Saeima is also extremely important for the coalition Members. So that they can also formulate their attitude, their position, their position on - as it seems to each other - stupid proposals that come from the opposition, but yet. Respecting our joint work, it seems to me that such a discussion should and should be such a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U115	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U116	Hello, everybody, again! Discussion of the state budget, which does not include a coalition, which does not involve the Minister of Finance, Prime Minister... Basically, such a budget discussion - it does not correspond to the system of a democratic state. If we compare to very long-standing democrats... Well, let's even take England for an example where we see that a regular Prime Minister goes to account in Parliament and discuss difficult, essential issues. And the issue of the socially most vulnerable part of society in the Law “On Social Security” is definitely one of such important issues, especially important issues, in the context of the Constitutional Court judgment. The absence of such a discussion basically points to the fact that Latvia is not a legal state and democratic value of Latvia, which also means that there is no diversity of opinion and public debate in Parliament. And it doesn't exist for one reason. That is the reason that everyone is aware of, and I can only repeat, as a leijer box, that our society allows it. Our society is afraid of getting up. And in this context, it is important to emphasise - I must also repeat for the second time, but that is essential - that in the issue of the least provided part of society, the coalition allows, in principle, coalition power parties to avoid execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. But at the same time, other judgments of the Constitutional Court on which to make their political capital and, in essence, to deceive people... points out to the public that they are urgent and essential and must be put into practice. And there's such a certain duality here. There is a certain doubleness in all possible aspects. Both for the fact that there can be no situation that one judgment of the Constitutional Court is more mandatory than another. It is not possible for a debate to be held only if they make some specific political capital for a particular group of voters. It cannot be that the position is not in discussion. Well, obviously, nothing will happen today, the position will be quiet again. There will be another talk, plus minus eight to ten members of the opposition. They are primarily independent Members. Slightly from the ZZS and SPIRITS. The rest are now, as if there were no parliament at all. And it is, above all, a disrespect for Latvian society. But this disrespect is rationally justified, and this rational justification is that the power parties believe that the voter is obviously not particularly educated and that voters will be able to be bought with political advertising because the parties have a large amount of funding, the power politicians will now also be able to increase their wages while others are actually starving. And so it works. This has been the case for all years, and it will also work for Mondays. It will work as long as the Latvian man fears about the content of his refrigerator and fails to go to the streets. It will work as long as all the aunts of Mirdza watch the television and believe in what is written there and don't look into real life. It will work as long as we believe in a variety of paid political scientists, who are shown from morning to evening, or rechekkists as in Soviet times... It's gonna be all for so long. At a time when we stop believing in all this and start believing in ourselves as a society, as a nation and as a brave stand up, it will change. Nothing can change in the past. We're going to have a deal today, tomorrow. The budget will be approved without discussion in fact and all proposals aimed at the public interest will be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U117	I closed the debate. Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote. Registration of Members before the break. Registration has been successfully completed. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U118	Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Social Security””. All the proposals have been examined. Name of commission rapporteur, Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U119	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I call for support to be given to the draft law on social security in the second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U121	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” was reviewed and prepared for second reading at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission on 11 November. The second reading received one proposal from Member Regina Ločmele: to add a new article on the duration and amount of unemployment benefit. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U122	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U123	Hello, fellow Members, again! The essence of my proposal is to add a new article to the draft law, in a form which would restore the old version of that law, namely that unemployment benefit is paid for nine months rather than eight months, as is currently the case, and that the cost of the benefit is divided into three periods where the unemployed person receives the benefit in full for the first three months, for the next three months - 75 per cent and for the last three months - 50 per cent. I would remind you that a year ago, also in the budget package, the welfare minister's proposal to reduce the time limit and amount of unemployment benefit was suddenly received. The reason was that, here, the Minister for Welfare was unable to fight the budget for his ministry enough to increase the minimum pensions and to add small amounts to the benefits as well, and here, the "rich people" were found, namely the unemployed, who, by reducing the pay gap and the amount of unemployment benefits, were found to have two million euros. So he took it from the unemployed and gave it to some pensioners. At the time, the opposition and I personally warned ministers about what this could lead to. Still a year ago, no one knew that a pandemic would enter the world in 2020 and that there would be an economic crisis, with unemployment rising as a result. What is the situation with unemployment in Latvia? Thus, according to statistics, the unemployment rate in Latvia reached 8.4 percent in the third quarter of 2020. And this is by 2.4 percentage points more than a year ago. In the third quarter of this year there were 81 400 unemployed people aged 15 to 74 in Latvia, which is 22.5 thousand more than a year ago. Especially for Mārtiņš Steins, who always takes care of our young people, I will say that the total number of unemployed young people is about three... Three and a half percentage points more than a year ago and the youth unemployment rate is almost 15 percent. On the fact that the unemployment rate in Latvia in the coming quarters could exceed nine percent... shows estimates of all financial and banking analysts. For example, Peteris Strautiņš, an economist of Luminor Bank, points out that “the unemployment curve after the end of the pandemic could look quite similar to the back of the two-cup camel. The fall in gross domestic product caused by the second wave will be smaller. However, companies whose balance sheets have already been weakened by the first wave will be severely affected by a renewed deterioration of the situation. Their ability to retain employees will be less, perhaps more motivated if they lose hope of a rapid resolution of the situation’. This quote was, even before the state of emergency was announced, and the respected economist did not know how our government would deal with the effects of the economic crisis in the second wave. What we see in the government's action shows that the unemployment curve could be even more impressive than the bank analysts predict. What's more, if we look... All amendments to the laws will be adopted and changes to tax policy will be introduced, which will destroy as class micro-enterprises, and then the unemployed crowd in Latvia could be very and very impressive.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U124	Thank you to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U125	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we amended this law last year and then at the commission meeting... my colleagues Andrejs Klementyev and others warned welfare ministers, Mrs Petraviča, that this offer was wrong, that it was not in time and place. People who paid social taxes fairly... they have all the possibilities to receive unemployment benefits in accordance with the law. The only thing that we managed to convince fellow Members is to introduce a transitional period. And now we see the consequences. The consequences that Covid-19 has for us... the level of unemployment caused. Please support the proposal by Member Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U126	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U127	Yes, so I would like to finish my speech, which I did not have time for the first debate... in the first debate, and call on all Members from the position, from the ruling coalition to fall apart and realise that it is precisely the unemployment benefit that could be obtained from the budget by people who will be deprived of means of subsistence. Those people who have no hope of getting a cut-off allowance, who have not yet been approved, because we are waiting for the acceptance of the European Commission. And this is the most optimal way to feed people and find these funds in the budget. Increasing unemployment... The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U128	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U129	Dear colleagues, There is no illusion, of course, that the coalition Members are listening to this, or are in some way prepared to take into account, or that what we are saying here or are not saying could somehow change her, not even her, but the decision made previously by other people, about how those coalition Members should vote. But, colleagues, the question of how long the unemployment benefit should be paid... I do not know whether any other country, a civilised country, has experienced something similar, either, this, my fellow Members, I think. I understand that... We all remember - it was last year - that the Minister for Welfare - I repeat this: the Minister for Welfare! - proposed to shorten this period during which the unemployed receive unemployment benefit, remember? Nine months to eight. I don't even know if in any other country... a welfare minister would stand for something to reduce the benefits paid to the unemployed. I may have heard about governments, of course, which... including the Ministry of Welfare... who were forced to do so because of an emergency, a financial crisis, perhaps because of a total lack of funds. But for the first time in my life, I have seen welfare ministers who proposed a reduction in unemployment benefits. That's what we're saying, in a time of peace. And you remember the reasons? That was at least when some position Members or Members Ministers still dared to say something here in the parliamentary debate. That justification, colleagues, was... The Ministry of Welfare now believes that reducing unemployment benefits will motivate people to return to the labour market earlier. So it is not clear why the Ministry of Welfare spends several tens of million euros on the State Employment Agency, all those programmes, on active labour market policy. There's this... An extremely effective instrument can simply reduce unemployment benefits, pay not nine months, but eight. Or more motivation: within seven months, six... perhaps not pay benefits to the unemployed at all. This will motivate them to return to the labour market as much as possible. And then remember that our Prime Minister, Petraviča, so she told us about this understanding of how it happened. That's the thinking, that's the way to call it, was that now we're all so good with the economy, we have so many unfilled vacancies. Obviously, people do not want to work, they want to sit on those unemployment benefits, and we will therefore reduce those benefits to them so that they are paid, not for nine months, but for eight months, and this will motivate them to return to the labour market. We're now, colleagues... I will ask you how we are now dealing with the economy... if you hear me, Member or Minister Petraviča: what is happening to us now with the economy? We are once again on some upward curve, on growth, on some sort of labour shortages on the labour market? Well then, according to your logic, which you told me a year ago, you should now, apparently, extend the payout period for unemployment benefits - or for nine months, perhaps even for 10 months, perhaps even for 12 months, because unemployment has increased. Many people have lost their jobs and so on. So... what does this macro-economic policy look like from your point of view? But that's all just... you somehow come into your head for some unknown reason... once a year, then you forget what was done and why. I probably do not expect an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U130	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U131	Colleagues! This question last... During the previous budget adoption, a very wide-ranging debate was held, and that is what was justified by economic development, the situation, new companies coming... We need jobs, different training programmes. That's the reason we didn't hear. Today, however, if we are looking at the situation today, the situation has changed significantly. But one of the main things was... the emphasis, however, was placed on the fact that this regulation was not discussed with the social partners in the course of last year's change of regulation. It's been a year, and that's how... I have not heard that there would have been really any serious discussion with the social partners on this issue this year. If I am wrong, please correct me, but I do not think this has happened in the course of the year. But, inevitably, in this situation in which we are today, it is necessary to talk about unemployment benefits in the context of the latter's benefits. And the mistakes made by the first wave and the unwillingness to support the opposition proposals that you are currently supporting with regard to the end-of-life benefits that we have already proposed in the spring... At the moment, there is a situation where people are no longer in government benefits... entrepreneurs quite simply do not believe, and that bitter experience... is entrepreneurs have a bitter experience at the moment they are being asked to repay these idle benefits... These stories are spreading, and this creates such disbelief, and this bureaucratic approach to the business community that has been, has led to the fact that yesterday, meeting with a very economical and active businessman... which said that at present it is no longer appropriate to apply for idle benefits, colleagues, precisely because of previous experience. And what does she choose? She simply sends her employees to the unemployed. Just let's get out of work. And it's a situation where the state has led to people refusing to use the normal system after previous experience and releasing people. But it's the release of people from work - it's such a step before... The question is: will these support mechanisms be sufficient to save our hotel industry to save our tourism industry to save a whole range of economic areas that are currently in a very difficult situation? Including all micro-entrepreneurs and so on, patent-payers, who will only increase the tax burden next year. At the same time, we... It is the moment that unemployment benefits are falling. And if from... then about the next... this will enter into force on 1 January... this regulation, and then we will be able to observe the situation of the state's social support of people who, in this situation, such as hotel workers who have been unemployed... If they were to requalify to another profession that would be possible within six months... but if these jobs are simply not available and if this economic situation does not improve, what guarantee cushion do we give to these people? We can get them this way... we can simply provide them with one-way tickets to Ireland, England or any other country with benefits, where they may have more opportunities to earn than we do. We now need to strengthen social guarantees on the part of the country. Unemployment benefit - it is one of the things that we are saving at the moment on social guarantees - is not, in my opinion, the right place. Latvian people want to work if there is a job. But if there's no work, then the state has... the place where care should be taken for these people, particularly in these circumstances. Idle benefits failed in the previous period. Many people are currently going to receive unemployment benefits. We must support these people, and this term must be what it was before. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U132	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U133	Dear colleagues, Any amendments to the law are related to changes in the situation. After the first wave of pandemic in business, there was still some optimism that humanity would be able to fight this virus and that there would still be some hope that it would be possible to rebuild one sector or another that was in a very serious and difficult situation. At that time, unemployment benefits were one of the means of maintaining the situation on the labour market. But it was a tragedy that the second wave came, which is much more severe than the first one. And this optimism is not as pronounced as it has been. And today it is very difficult to predict which of the sectors will be renewed and at what pace. It is clear that next year will not be the year when it will be possible to re-establish the labour market and to re-establish some of the economic sectors that have gone to the rock today. In this case, it is unlikely that it would be right to change the situation with labour market support measures. And that is why the proposal formulated in Regina Locmele's thesis is right. Because it is not the case that it will remain for life and we will also be able to re-establish training programmes and also regulate the labour market by developing new sectors, which are quite difficult to judge today as to what they will be. Hardly, let's say, the tourism industry or people working in the restaurant and hotel industry will all be able to turn into IT specialists, even with all kinds of... any training programme. Therefore, this situation will continue to deteriorate in the labour market again next year. That is why this proposal needs to be supported, and if you do not, colleagues today, then... it will have to return from 1 January and other resources will have to be sought to cover these costs, but it would be better to do so in a timely manner, without weakening the aid formula that has been and should certainly be maintained for the following year, thinking also of the changes that could be made in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U134	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U135	Dear colleagues, This amending budget last year on shortening the deadline for receiving unemployment benefits... We have already discussed this last year and we have found that such an amendment would bring... saves around €12 million in the state budget. Probably in view of this situation with the comma pandemic, given that no such benefits... This is likely to be even greater because people will not be able to find a job either and will not be able to work because they will simply be prevented from doing so. That is why, of course, it was, yes, very cleverly done by you, the honourable government, Mr Kariņš, it was also very wise to tell everyone at the time of the adoption of the previous budget that taxes did not change. We know that this was a very well prepared plan for this year, when you were in 2021... You're going to hit a lot of sectors, even in parallel... Despite the ongoing communion crisis, you will be able to save at the expense of unemployment benefits. Great plan, Mr. Kariņš, great plan! And I think that if we have already begun such a practice that the Orders of Three Stars are given to practically anyone who has earned recognition in the eyes of power, such as a man buying masks, then the Orders of Three Stars will soon be available to those who have cleared the territory of Latvia from the people and have thrown them out. And the Order of Three Stars due to Mr. Reira, Mr. Dalder and Mr. Kariņš is probably due next year. Thank you, colleagues, I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U136	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U137	Dear colleagues, I am now looking at the document that was the reply of the Minister for Welfare, Petraviča, to the Members of the Saeima, some a year ago. This is Mrs Petraviča's signature. And I'll just read to you here some things that Mrs Petravič has signed... He wrote to us here. So, here we go. ‘ One of the means of activation of the labour force and of motivation to return to the labour market is also the cost of unemployment benefits system, which may be more or less motivated, depending on certain conditions. Sling... “ Now, colleagues! ” ‘... The conditions for receiving and paying unemployment benefits need to be reviewed in the context of declining unemployment and rising unemployment rates." So when the number of vacancies was high, the unemployment rate was low, Mrs Petraviča felt it was necessary to shorten this period during which unemployment benefits were paid. Further, Mrs Petraviča demonstrates her great knowledge of macroeconomic policy by writing: "The unemployment benefit is one of the ways in which fiscal policy reduces the volatility of the economic cycle, i.e. it retains the sustainable purchasing power of the population in times of low economic activity and rising unemployment. In turn, appropriate adjustments may be made in periods when the labour market shows positive trends." That is why, Mrs Petraviča, who is a Member today, and her colleagues, and also the government, if you believe that... if you have so much understanding that unemployment benefit is part of a macroeconomic stabilisation policy that you think it is necessary...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U138	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U139	Dear President of the Saeima. Can you hear me? Hello!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U140	We hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U141	Dear colleagues, I just want to add to Mr Vjačeslav, who said about the motivation that was. Perhaps it was in Riga that there was a shortage of highly qualified workers, but also, last year, we had regions where there were unemployed. And the unemployed are mostly low-skilled, perhaps without such a very good education. Nothing had changed, and we also warned then that it would be an unpleasant thing for the country, because people, when they saw that they would not have a guarantee, did not try to require businessmen to pay taxes on them, and this happened during this year. I don't know, you want to admit it or you don't want it. And the other one today, now... due to the community of its small business... Now they're afraid to owe the country tax. They don't believe us today, and they just lay off some of them. They stay without a means of subsistence and will go to the municipality for benefits. I think this is a huge mistake. Please listen to today and do not do so with unemployment benefits. Who's gonna pay you taxes next year? For what will you get those raised wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U142	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U143	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U144	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mrs Ločmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! - 30, 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U145	On behalf of the Commission, I am calling for support to be given to the draft law on unemployment insurance in the second, final reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U146	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U147	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and prepared for consideration at the Seimas sitting at second reading the draft law “Amendment to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance””. One proposal has been received for the second reading. This is a proposal from the Group of the Social Democratic Party for an increase of the amount of the allowance from the previous 30 per cent to 75 per cent in the amount of parental benefit paid to a recipient who is employed and not on leave or who receives income as a self-employed worker while caring for the child. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U148	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U149	The Commission endorsed the draft law on maternity and sickness insurance at second, final reading. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U150	Please, call! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U151	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions”. No proposals were received. So I am calling for support at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U152	Please, call! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U153	Welcome again, colleagues. We have also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Seven proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal by Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņš. Provision is made for the right of persons to a state social insurance pension to be supplemented. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U154	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U155	Colleagues! Honourable Members! Currently, the law provides that the right to a state social insurance pension is a person who is resident in the territory of Latvia and who has been subject to compulsory state pension insurance. The essence of our proposal is that if a person has been part of the state compulsory pension insurance of Latvia, when making social contributions and collecting pension savings, regardless of whether or not when reaching the pensionable age, he or she lives in Latvia, he or she could receive this pension. In my opinion, it is only logical that if a person has relied on the social insurance system of Latvia in essence, with the idea that he makes contributions so that in the end he also receives his social service, including an old-age pension, it should in no way be linked to the person's place of residence. When we discussed this proposal at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the Welfare Ministry's argument was that it was very difficult to control such persons living abroad, whether they are still alive, where they live, or whether a real person also receives this pension. But, in my opinion, this is not an important argument; it is not a serious argument in this situation. A solution must be found to control it. Even if you're asking for an annual application from this person... Especially given that already now there are situations where a person lives in Latvia at the time of receiving an old-age pension, he receives it and then changes his place of residence. These persons are not subject to such restrictions, which are also correct, but a person who, at the time of receiving an old-age pension, resides outside the country cannot qualify for his fair accumulated social budget. I call for this proposal in particular to support those colleagues who take great care of older people who have lived outside the country who have been members of the social system of another country and are about to return to Latvia. Well, most of you... Several of you believe that in this case a person should not pay personal income tax here, just as Latvian pensioners do, that there should be special reliefs. I think that as politicians - quite the opposite - we need to send a strong signal that the state pension insurance system of Latvia is reliable, that if you have invested, if you have paid taxes fairly, social contributions in your working life, no matter where you go, you will also be insured and receive an old-age pension. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U156	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U157	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U158	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņa! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U159	2. There is also a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņš. This proposal calls for the procedure for the reimbursement of expenses incurred in certifying insurance record to be established by the Cabinet of Ministers, is a delegation and... However, overall, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U160	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U161	Colleagues! One factor in the size of the pension is the length of insurance. Currently, the law provides that insurance period is confirmed by the data accumulated at the State Social Insurance Agency, which also proves the payment of insurance contributions, but during the period until 31 December 1990, in fact until the restoration of the independence of the State of Latvia, there is no possibility of obtaining such data or automatic information. In order for a person to prove his record of the period before Latvia's independence, other sources of information must be used, often also in the archives to obtain information. As you know, certificates cost money. The Latvian State Archives certificate is not a free service that makes it difficult, of course, to collect these materials, and that is also the reason for our proposal. We expect that if proof is required to prove the length of work of a person through national public registers and information, the person should not pay for it. That is the essence of the proposal and we ask for its support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U162	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U163	Colleagues! These may not be the most money-intensive proposals, but they are so small. And I think every senior who goes after these public services or knowledge would be very grateful if he tried to deal with his pension, the state would not have paid for one more certificate or another. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for these proposals. These are the technical improvements that... In my opinion, the draft budget is the right place to make such technical improvements. That would not have a major fiscal impact, I would say very little fiscal impact. And for individuals you... I have often met senior associations to listen to the stories that people have worked all their lives in one or the other factory and are currently receiving very small pensions. And there are no data on the taxes paid previously. This order has been improved in some way all the time. There is now an opportunity to get out of national data, but people have to pay for it. That is why I also call for support for this proposal. It would have promised to a small number of seniors who would very much appreciate it. I also call on Mr Stein, who is the rapporteur for the committee responsible, to perhaps give the whole Saeima more than five words about why this proposal has not been supported by the committee, what arguments are. And maybe someone could also say something from the coalition about such proposals, not quietly sitting down and watching the opposition defend its proposals. Thank you. Otherwise, this debate is one-way movement... the current budget. But I will repeat again and again - it does not in any way improve the prestige of the Saeima, but rather degrades it, because I would like to hear at least one argument about such proposals, except that the Commission did not support them. I call on my colleagues to support and explain the proposal... the committee's votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U164	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U165	In the Commission, proposal 2 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U166	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - An offer from Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņš! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U167	The proposal is from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The proposal calls for changes to the rules of application of the revision of the national pension. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U168	There will be a debate on the name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U169	Colleagues! Proposals 3 and 4 are linked and prepared on the basis of the proposals of the Latvian Pensioners Federation. As we know, the Latvian Pensioners Federation is currently headed by Aija Barča, a long-standing Member and former Head of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima, which, at the time, introduced to a large extent with Member Andris Bērzins the principle that the revision of state pensions is carried out in connection with a pension or... retirement periods - the greater the length of work of people, the greater the rate applied - are, in my opinion, a very good system which motivates people to work longer and, of course, as a result, to pay social contributions and to accumulate pension for a longer period. This proposal and the next one are intended to change this percentage depending on the length of service. If, at the moment, the law provides for the revision of old-age pensions depending on the person's insurance record, taking as a basis the percentage of the actual insurance contributions' salaries - 50 per cent is the normal increase, the coefficient is 60 per cent for persons 30 to 39 years of age or for persons who are awarded an old-age pension for work in conditions that are harmful, difficult or particularly harmful, especially difficult. The nature of this proposal and of the next proposal is to provide for a coefficient of 100 per cent for work in difficult or particularly harmful circumstances. Well, if a person has been working in a particularly complicated, harmful job, then he would get a bigger pension than at present. And the other part. A hundred per cent coefficient is also provided for persons with a length of service of more than 50 years - not for the life expectancy of 50 years, but for the length of service, colleagues. Such persons are not very many, in fact already a few years ago the calculations were made. At that time, overall, there was a relatively high increase in pensions in the current budget plan. This small tail was not done by the Saeima, but I think it is a very welcome idea and it could now be done on the overall social aid package. Since this proposal, together with the next one, is a complex offer for greater support for pensioners who have a high length of work or who have worked in particularly difficult, adverse circumstances. As I said, this is an initiative of the Latvian Pensioners Federation and has been supported. I also invite you to listen and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U170	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U171	Colleagues! Latvian Pensioners Federation... I think it would be worth all seniors to look at and follow the amendments on public pensions and ask whether there is any point in meeting pension associations with politicians before or after the elections. What is its added value? At the moment, together with these highly respected, recognised senior organisations, we have prepared proposals to improve and make the pension system fairer. It is an ongoing work that has already begun in the previous Saeima, and it is now the next steps that should be taken to make it as fair as possible, for which it would not really be reasonable to call it at the moment. Here my colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, explained the substance of this proposal. Proposals 4 and 5 both - above all, it would be aid for those who have a higher length of work, 50 years or more, and it is precisely these difficult and particularly harmful working conditions where people are... in which people have worked to have more indexation, and that would be fairer, in my opinion and also in the opinion of our colleagues. I call on these proposals to be supported and also to explain perhaps... maybe there is someone.... Perhaps there is one opposition who wants to explain why our proposal is not the right one. The coalition doesn't do that. Once again and again, such a non-debate does not in any way make the Saeima prestigious. The coalition's attitude on such fundamental issues is, in fact, deeply incomprehensible. I would like to mention one example of last week's debate on amendments to the Education Act. There may be different positions, there may be different opinions, they must be respected and respected by the Saeima. But I would like to highlight the same thing as Mrs Znotiņš, who took part in this debate. He had arguments, and this was a debate between the positions and the opposition. There is now a naked opposition debate, which, in my opinion, is... which does not pay any tribute, above all, to the coalition, but shows how weak the coalition is, in fact, because it is unable to participate respectfully in the debate with the opposition. Last year, a process took place when the opposition left the Saeima Meeting Hall due to various coalition manoeuvres, the shortening of the period of debate and other issues just before the main issues were discussed. At the moment, the position ignores the opposition. In Parliament, in democracy, this is not a normal process, especially during the budget review. Colleagues, I call on the opposition to be active today. And at least to keep the same pace until the position begins to explain the proposals or to explain why one or the other opposition's proposals are, in substance, rejected, even those that I am currently talking about - the indexation of pensions in a fairer way - which has no fiscal impact and which is in essence a continuation of the work of the previous Saeima in the right direction - to make the pension system fairer, where unfortunately now... In the Ministry of Welfare there has been neither time nor desire to continue this work, nor the Social and Labour Affairs Commission has done any fairer system... For continued use. Therefore, colleagues, I call for the activeness and strengthening of parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U172	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U173	In the Commission, a majority decided not to support proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U174	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! To - 34, to - 59, to - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U175	And, as Mrs. Reizniece–Ozola said, also 4. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. It is envisaged to modify the rules of application of the revision of the national pension. In the Commission, proposal 4 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U176	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 57, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U177	5. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Delete as appropriate in point 41.3 of the transitional provision. And this proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U178	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U179	Colleagues! Proposals 5 and 6 are again interrelated. You have also been presented at the initiative of the Latvian Pensioners Federation and, in my opinion, very logical proposals. They provide for higher allowances for persons who retired before 31 December 1996 and during the period thereafter, respectively. We know that with the period until 31 December 1995, the premium is now one euro 50 cent per year of insurance. Such allowances have been introduced for persons with a history up to 1995 due to the fact that this is a period during which it was not possible to raise pension capital for themselves. We remember that there was a welfare minister who publicly expressed the view that pensioners with low pensions and working during the Soviet period lived in another country. This caused relatively great insult to those pensioners. But it is true that, indeed, until the time of independence, there was no social security system; people did not have the opportunity to accumulate this pension capital. And that's why the state is, of course, obliged by people who have also worked, who have invested their years of work, energy, sweat, efforts to build the country... Well, with that little, but the support... One euro 50 cent is, of course, relatively little, and this is also at the heart of our proposal. We offer some progressivity by paying three euros for every year of service to people who have retired before 31 December 1996, if later - from 1997 to the end of 2011 - this amount could be two euros, and in the later period it could be one euro 50 cent. Its progressive nature is, of course, also linked to the principle: the later the person retired, because it is obvious that there have been more opportunities to participate in existing social security systems and to make some additional savings. I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. I think it is extremely important right now, as well as reading the latest news that “Riga’s heat” SPRK has just approved new tariffs, which means that already in December heating tariffs in Riga will increase by 10 percent. This group of pensioners, who have spent a relatively large part of their working lives up to 95 years... Until 1995, they are indeed the group with small pensions, which will have such bigger bills to pay. The municipality will also hardly be as strong as it could have been in the absence of a reduced proportion of personal income tax. Please examine these proposals and support them. I think it will be a real support for older pensioners, for the part that does not actually have a great deal of benefit from the increased non-equitable minimum next year. Those with higher pensions have a difference of EUR 300 or EUR 330. For those who have small pensions, it is not practical for them to increase such an inequitable minimum... They should be supported by targeted special allowances of this kind.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U180	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U181	In the Commission, proposal 5 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U182	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! - 30, 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U183	Six more. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Provision shall be made for changes to the pension provisions. And in the Commission this proposal, six, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U184	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 59, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U185	7. - a proposal from the Members Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņš. It is planned to delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers to lay down rules on reimbursement of expenses incurred in proving insurance record. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U186	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U187	I invite you to support the Saeima's draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Pensions" at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U188	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on compulsory social insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U189	We have also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Two proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group. A change in the minimum amount of compensation for the loss of the householder is foreseen. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U190	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! -30, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U191	2. - a proposal from the Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Dūklav. It is envisaged to clarify point 4 of the transitional provisions. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U192	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Dūklav! Please, let's vote! - 29, 60, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U193	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U194	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to law “On renting of residential premises”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U195	Yes, then three proposals have been received in the draft law "Amendment to the law on the rental of residential premises". 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš. The numbering of the following articles has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U197	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative nature. It is defined which is a low-income person. Supported by proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U199	And 3. - Ministry of Welfare... Petravič's proposal. The same definition, too, is that of a low-income person. The budget and financial (tax) commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U201	I invite you to support the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Rent of Accommodations” at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U202	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Rent of Accommodation”” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U203	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On 11 November, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined amendments to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” for second reading. A total of 15 proposals have been received. 1. - the Ombudsman Janson's proposal. It is envisaged to supplement the legal provision in cases where a person has no accommodation for objective reasons and... as well as it is not possible to determine the last place of residence, then in the relevant municipality where the person has chosen his place of residence, evaluate the possibility to provide and solve both the issue of housing and to grant social assistance in accordance with... The Commission has partially supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U204	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U205	2. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. In fact, it's similar to the previous, editorial. Also partially supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U206	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U207	3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The two proposals referred to above are included and are supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U209	4. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. Editative nature. It is intended to replace the word ‘covering’ by ‘paying’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U211	5. - The proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group. Provision shall be made for the minimum income threshold for the provision of social assistance to be set by a percentage of the median income of households, as published on the website of the Central Statistical Administration in the reference year... And the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U212	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U213	6. - The proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group. Provision shall be made for the minimum income threshold to be reviewed annually. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U214	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U215	7. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. Editative nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U217	8 / 8 - also the proposal of welfare minister Petraviča. Also editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U219	9. - the Ombudsman Janson's proposal. It is envisaged that when assessing the criteria for granting social assistance benefits to the household, income shall not be considered as one-off financial support for a refugee or an alternative beneficiary. Partly supported and included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U220	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U221	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. Supported by the Commission. Including the above... clarify the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U223	11. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. Also editorial nature. The Commission supports and incorporates proposal 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U225	12. - The Cabinet's proposal. Editative nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U227	13. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. The wording of the article shall be supplemented by providing that the allowance for the payment of certain expenses shall be granted to a person recognised as low-income. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U229	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. The wording of the article shall be supplemented by providing that the payment of the guaranteed minimum income benefit shall be suspended or not be granted if the person is located in a social rehabilitation institution for more than a calendar month. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U231	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. Provision shall be made for the wording of the article, which lays down the cases in which the payment of basic social assistance benefits shall not be suspended... in cases where income is also derived from the revision of pensions and remunerations. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U233	All 15 proposals have been examined. Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U234	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft Law “Amendments to Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U235	Yes, 11 proposals have been received for this draft law. So it's 1. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal. Provision shall be made for the right to provide for a child without parental care living room of the municipality to reach adulthood, and this age limit of 24 years shall be removed. The budget and financial (tax) commission is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U236	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U237	Hello! This proposal, too, is about fairness. To remind you, recently the Saeima voted and the ruling coalition was the initiator of an amendment to the law on the prohibition of child adoption abroad. And then I said that I would definitely put forward this proposal in the bill "Amendments to the law on assistance in housing matters" because it concerns the right of these orphans to housing. Because when you said that, here, in Latvia, orphans will be better, let us put these children in foster families and have happiness for those people, then I reminded them that such children are under 18 years of age. And especially no one after that is interested in what happens to these children - whether they have a place to live. Yes, I was told that under the age of 24, orphans are in the queue and are entitled to compensation if they rent an apartment. They mostly rent apartments because local governments do not have free apartments to allocate to such children orphans. We held a special sub-commission meeting on housing issues to find out the situation in all municipalities of Latvia with the granting of municipal apartments to orphans... as guaranteed by law by the State, and it turns out that they do not receive any apartments. By the age of 24, these people are mostly thrown out of the line. Yes, they have the opportunity to re-enter this line, but then they have to become poor or deprived. When I speak to those people who, at the age of 24, are no longer considered orphans by the state and do not consider it necessary to guarantee the apartments, they tell me that the state itself, first of all, is a memorial - so they do not get any apartment, second, make these people become really poor or less secure in order to qualify for the apartment again. There's another way, for example, girls up to the age of 24... girls’ orphans go back and register in line for the apartment. They're giving birth to three children in a row, just to get after the age of 24... place in this row. In my opinion, it is so shameless for the country to promise and not to do so cynically for Members to ban the adoption of these children abroad, without taking care that, after extortion from a foster family, they really have where to live, let alone other things. This proposal to amend the law is linked precisely to removing this restriction, so that, while the State does not fulfil its obligation towards these children... Whatever if it happens through a municipality, it is a state promise to guarantee these people housing... As long as this promise has not been fulfilled, there can be no restrictions. And this proposal is not contrary to any other Latvian law. Please vote in favour, especially all those Members who voted in favour of a ban on adoption abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U238	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U239	Yes, honourable colleagues! When we had extensive discussions in summer about the ban on adopting children abroad, I also met with representatives of the children of the system, and what they asked to highlight in this whole story is... At the moment, we are not talking about a ban on adopting abroad, but we are talking about where all these children are left after they have reached adulthood. And that gloomy story is that often and mostly... in most cases, children also go abroad where we try to stop them, because that's what the situation with the living room really is so bad that... And also with income because, for example, the same benefit as we found out is not coming to the child if he... Well, a child who has already reached the age of 18 unless he learns full time. So if he tries to work part - time, he does not have to do anything. It also actually destroys the entire support system, it also destroys confidence in the country, because to really... in order to survive something, these children must continue... So they have to get someone else... Some kind of income. But the vicious circle - with income, they don't get this support. They also do not have the opportunity to continue living in the same house as they might have been used to living with education. So they have to go looking for opportunities. So... given that many children, growing up from this situation and becoming adults - they are, in fact, left in the power of fate, they have no chance, say, they have no point of reference, they do not have a point of departure... they have no chance of starting their own... their private life in safe conditions. They're practically staying on the street. Also when we tried to find out about the Ministry of Welfare, now, how many children we have left here, how many jobs we have... There are no such data, and such data are probably not yet collected. It would also be very important to really understand how we can help children who have reached adulthood. That is why Mrs Ločmel's proposal, in my opinion, is very, very good, very useful and really essential so that we can allow those children who have not had the opportunity, therefore, to expect their family... who did not have the opportunity to expect their family in Latvia or abroad to provide them with this support point for further life. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U240	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U241	I'm going to keep what Julia Stepanenko just said. True, there is at least one childcare facility in Latvia, where orphans have the opportunity to stay at this childcare facility when they reach the age of 18. It's Aptie. This childcare facility is located in Riga, but there is... provided that, at the age of 18, this child continues to study at a university and with good results. For the rest. Indeed, the Ministry of Welfare does not collect any data, nor does it produce any programs. There's the only program for giving money to these kids... such as mentors. Mentor receives money for giving advice to these children - give advice on how to enter the municipal queue into the social apartment, how to find work in the economic crisis. And now we're going to hear from Evita Zaļe-Gross how well everything is and how she cares for orphans. Well, I hope this dialogue will continue, because I will persevere in this proposal... Until the end of this Saeima. And I ask and hope that, however, one of the Members of the position will now be courageous and will vote in favour of my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U242	The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U243	Yes, hello! Thanks to Regina Lochmel for encouragement. I am brave enough to say that much of what you say is true. We really have huge problems with living space for children after 18 years of age outside the family. But what would I like to say about this particular proposal? So the fact that we will lift this 24-year ceiling will not create new residential areas. And if the child has stood in line for up to 24 years, he may be able to stand for up to 30, 40 and 50 years. And is that what we want? I agree that we must address this issue, perhaps through the... through discussion with the Latvian Municipal Union. Because when speaking to the Latvian Municipal Union, and I will do so directly in the context of this proposal... It is clear that there will be a new territorial reform, and there will be larger municipalities. And on my idea that there might be... More opportunity for these children to get to the residential area, I was told in the Latvian Municipal Union that perhaps the other way around - that its residential areas will remain less. And that makes me concerned. I think that this problem needs to be resolved, and I really would support this proposal if it were to think that it really addresses that problem if it created new homes... but, in my opinion, we need to think about a support system that guarantees the rent of housing available from 18 years of age, for example, and equal in all... in municipalities... There is no equal opportunity in all municipalities. The lowest rental compensations are very small and there is nothing to rent. That is why this is a global issue. I fully agree that this must be dealt with, but I will not support this proposal because I see that it does not solve anything. And it is a bad law, which is in fact unenforceable. I think we write the law again, where we can't see the result in the final. I call on these same ladies at the negotiating table to think further about what to do. This proposal does not solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U244	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U245	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Zalīte-Gross very much for being almost the only Member of the coalition who has responded (really - all dignity!) , and the only coalition Member who has responded to the tabled proposal and has also tried to find out how this proposal could be implemented and the problems with the implementation of this proposal. I really must say all the respect! Thank you, Mrs Grossa. It may be that this is a question in which we should not break a spear in which we should not try to distinguish between different political sympathys or anti-pathies. Perhaps this could really be a one-size-fits-all issue. And taking into account the observations and suggestions you have made, we could indeed agree together that this issue should be resolved once and for all, especially in view of the fact that, now, adoption of children abroad will actually be stopped, so more children will become. And so that children really stay in Latvia after they reach their age (because that is our goal - we need these children here in Latvia!) , they should really receive this support. Thank you again. And we're ready to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U246	Colleagues, we will continue the debate after a break. It is also time for the statement. Today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague, Member Jānis Dūklavs, and we welcome him. (Applause) There's also a record of Members. It was a success. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U247	Colleagues, we keep working after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment””. Debate on proposal 1. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U248	Thank you. Madam President, It has to be said that what we are talking about is really one of the most dramatic issues. The fate of children's orphans is not a rosy fate at any age, but a particularly dramatic period is when that orphan is 24 years old - then the time of hope ends and an independent swimming begins in deep and not always clean waters. Assistance to solve the issues of the apartment is a function of municipalities, which is governed by the law on assistance. Unfortunately, this assistance is, however, largely linked to the... depends on how the municipality is able and willing to deal with these problems, because the state has not always given the municipality some resources - both financial and opportunities to build rental houses, so that there is the housing fund that can be used. And therefore, unfortunately, in practical life, orphans remain the most vulnerable category of those applicants on the roof above the head, who stand in municipal queues on the apartment. Does that proposal really solve this matter? I would like to agree with Mrs Soul-Gross's view that it is unlikely. However, there are two things here why this proposal should be supported. First. The first consideration is that the country, understanding the tragedy of the whole range of these problems, does not take away the commitment it has made - to provide the orphans with a roof above their head for their own life. Point number one. Two points. That the state not only in words, but also in practical solutions... continue to seek solutions to this problem in such a way as to achieve... so that the orphans should not wait until their retirement age for their determination. That proposal should therefore be supported - even from this point of view - that it is morally important for orphans. And it is also very important for us to continue working on the assistance of the apartment after the complete complex. Because what is happening to us today, unfortunately, also in the legislative practice, is not quite in line with that good goal - let's say, to expand the rental housing sector, as the new law on residential rental, where there is no instrument... no tools are provided to help municipalities to fulfil this function... and provide for such a municipal function - also for rent houses and resources to provide assistance in solving apartment issues. So there's a lot to do here until it's done. I think that this determination to support orphans is also very much to be supported by Members. I call for the vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U249	Name to Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U250	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Thank you to Mrs Evita for not being indifferent to this problem. And thank you also to the Member, Mr Sergey, who has already said practically everything I wanted to say. This vote will really not solve it - it is not a magic wand, right away those orphans will not have those apartments, anywhere will come from! - But this time it doesn't cost the country any money, and... I would like to say, as Mr Sergey has just said, that this vote could give orphans the hope that they are not forgotten and that they are necessary for this country. The public may also understand this vote by the Saeima this time. And this message could make orphans even a little happy while waiting for the New Year. At least there is something we could give them from the Saeima. Even though we have given many such good hopes... The government is also waiting for the New Year because they will have higher wages. But the budget they have prepared for the people is not a good promise. I will agree once again with Mr Sergey: perhaps this time we will be thawing our cold hearts and voting in favour of this proposal by Mrs Regina, because these orphans have already not been successful in their lives! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U251	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U252	Hello, colleagues! I'm going to join what Evita Hall-Gross said, and I'm going to explain why.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U253	Try to speak louder, please. That's bad to hear.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U254	Is it better now? Is it better now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U255	It's a little better.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U256	Well, if you can't hear me, I can't talk. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U257	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U258	Yes, my fellow Members, I will join in what Ms Roosa said. Let me explain why. First. I myself have gone through all this story about living areas; it was 20 years ago, but nothing has changed. The years and the age that we want to add there are no solutions, because if the municipality does not have this residential area, the municipality cannot show it. That is first. Secondly. Often even if you can show it, the living area is one you don’t even want to take because you don’t have the money to put it in order to live there. I did not even have the opportunity to receive such rental allowance, and I will not explain why. At that time there was a situation: there was no mobile phone, internet, there was no way to find out, and the municipalities did not come to you so much that you could understand what to do and what to do. Therefore, my fellow Members, I would call on us rather to force the Ministry of Welfare together to work. , change... but this proposal will not solve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U259	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U260	Dear colleagues, Those who have not been working for the first year in the Saeima are very well aware of the fact that, when dealing with a matter, any question, with amendments to one law - that is not enough. This is just the first step in trying to solve this painful problem. I ask my fellow Members, those who agree with the idea, also from the position of voting in favour of the proposal by Member Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U261	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U262	Yes, colleagues! I would also like to speak in favour of this proposal. In my opinion, it is, in fact, the right time to talk about this, too, in a way. And I'll explain why. Of course, access to housing, especially in regions, is already quite difficult... In difficult circumstances, we are at the moment, but yet. These are statutory principles, which already exist, that housing must be provided. And I think in the coming years, the municipalities could be... There will be increased possibilities to provide housing to those groups of people who are provided for in the law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”. And maybe they'll get... that there will be even more such property at the disposal of local authorities to enable them to be made available to orphans. And this age limit of 24 years should be taken out so that these people do this... Well, some kind of aid from the State would remain for longer. Let me explain why. The very praised reconstruction fund at the moment... And here I would like to talk about the Minister for Economics. He is known to have proposed to allocate EUR 230 million to the housing renovation fund, to the construction of new housing, and to the construction of social housing. And these investments will have to be made in the near future. If the government, together with the social partners, agree that of these two billions of 10 percent or more... funding to address housing problems... This will apply mainly to housing in regions where this problem is more pronounced. And there's definitely going to be... It may be that between 1500 and 2000 new apartments could be built. And so this load on these... The lack of apartments in municipalities could be significantly reduced - these apartments could then be given by the municipalities in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law as well as by those who... are amendments to the law “On assistance in solving the issues of the apartment”... mainly for them, as well as other residents of the municipality, new specialists, thus also releasing... reducing this tension, which is today in relation to these properties. I would like to call for support for this proposal and, my fellow Members, for work and together support for those suggestions that deal in some way, improve the problem of access to housing. And now there are concrete solutions that are being proposed both in the vision of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and in the vision of the Ministry of Economics. Both of these solutions are in the right direction; one that I think would be second. The main thing - that we choose at least one of them to have this programme - housing support, construction support. It will certainly also address the problems that my colleagues from both the coalition and the opposition have spoken about... Here too. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support and... Well, make some kind of... extend this scope of assistance... Well, in this case, we're talking about orphans... and, I think, others who need this help very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U263	The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U264	Yeah, thank you. As we have heard from previous speakers, it is quite clear that this draft law could not be on the agenda if everything were so rosary. I remain convinced that, by removing this ceiling of 24 years, nothing is in fact resolved. And what Mr. Valaini said... It would be very good if it were in the future... And then the question is, why remove this ceiling “24 years”? It would be important that this child stays at that apartment at 18 years of age. Why should it be that only up to the age of 24... Is that so? Maybe up to 30, maybe up to 19 years... Is that so? In my opinion, what we are trying to do is we want to pretend better than we are, we do not want to deal with the substance. We want to look good in the eyes of children, yet in some way, but I think it is just that we need to get to work, we need to solve this problem, not change a law that is not really decisive. On the one hand, I thank Mrs Luņova for putting this on the agenda, because we have been fighting for it for years. Thank you for that. However, I would like this matter to be resolved, and I am ready to do anything about it and not to support a law that will only have the cosmetic meaning of repairs... even less so, because it does not in essence solve the issue. The other thing. There are different municipalities. And if you give the child living in a municipality where he has no work or transport, it doesn't solve him... Life. It just complicates his life because - what does he get into an area where he has to invest huge amounts of money to repair that he doesn't have? What is given him by a place where no work is done or where he cannot receive education? These are very, very difficult issues. We sit down at last at the negotiating table and talk, and let's talk them out! Let's do something that really makes sense! I think that's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U265	The name to Member Vital Orlov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U266	Dear colleagues, The changes in the law are very often a precedent. And also behind this proposal there are real people who were thrown out of... not belonging to them... but from their habitation where they lived. And this is the case of Member Lochmele, working in the Riga City Council and speaking with (not to be heard). ... to Rigaers. That is why this proposal has emerged. There's real people behind it. Request to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U267	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U268	Yes, colleagues! This proposal. The proposal provides for the exclusion of the words ‘and shall be maintained until the age of 24’ in the fourth paragraph of Article 14. In my opinion, such a norm in the draft law is therefore created... I have not studied the creation of this standard, but I think it has been created only because of this certain tension with regard to property, access to areas. Not everyone can guarantee this. What I mentioned before is, of course, a solution... such a broader and much-needed solution. I think that all of us, both in your hands and in our hands, must do everything to ensure that this solution for the construction of new housing is implemented as soon as possible. But this one too... Right now, if we're like this... Adopted law has the force of law, and it would already... In principle, this would in some ways create additional tensions for the municipalities that have to provide this housing and at the same time lead to solutions and more involvement in the development of new housing, construction and the creation of new residential areas, despite the fact that the municipalities have a reduction of 90 million in the next year's budget. This could be a good interaction between the state and local authorities to address a really serious problem, and this would further motivate the government to support such large investment projects, currently being proposed by the Ministry of Economics, for the construction of new housing of 230 million. It will handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U269	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U270	Good afternoon, everybody! I hope that everyone has an opportunity to eat, is able to follow the sitting. For me, it is really very amusing: to listen to this debate, which is now being tried by the coalition... In particular, Mrs Grossa is trying to condemn the opposition for not preparing this solution. Excuse me, but who had to prepare it? You also had to prepare! What the opposition is doing at the moment - they are trying to thirst out your inaction. If we come with proposals that actually solve the problem, then you say that you cannot accept them, because the budget either does not have money, or you do not have an understanding of how to do all of this. And that's why... Let us not do anything better! If you are offered solutions that do not require your particular understanding and do not require your budget, then you say: this solution already does not solve anything in principle! So you, the honourable coalition, tell us - what can we offer as an opposition? What solutions can we offer? What kind of ones can you accomplish? What kind of person do you understand or cannot understand? Because in your case, it really is now... this debate was, well, really amusing and ridiculous! What are these solutions then? If you, with foam on your lips, now criticise that there are no such solutions, then in principle you are making these accusations to yourself. I understand that this speech, which was the only one after change - the only one! - speech from the coalition - I understand that it was such an outrageous attack on you, your coalition, that you are sitting here and you cannot do anything. And that's really true! Wherever we look, you can't do anything! You can only promise and promise, but then you do nothing. And then you're looking for the guilty. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U271	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U272	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! Well, I'm allowed this time to reflect on Mr. Riekstin's call for welfare ministers... and to defend precisely the welfare ministers and tell you, the respected intellectuals from the New Conservative Party: if we speak meaningfully and in substance, then Mr Riekstins' proposal to force welfare ministers together does not sound either decently or meaningfully, but, in fact, immoral. At the same time it should be recalled that it was the Minister for Welfare who offered a transitional period when orphans were in orphanage and when he prohibited - with an initiative that was accepted and actively supported by the New Conservative Party! - to let these children still adopt and find them a family abroad... And so I feel that this debate is not too serious and it is not morally and ethically appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U273	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U274	Madam President, colleagues. In fact, the debate that is taking place at this point in time proves the need not only... what I have submitted... on the literacy development programme - the national programme - for children aged three to five years, but perhaps also for adults. If you read the existing rule of law and proposal, it is clear that there are certain actions to be carried out by the municipality - a child who has no relatives who can take care of him, to allocate living space after the age of adulthood. And this proposal actually removes the age limit. So... Indeed, Mr Valaiņa is right: the municipality will have to continue to look for opportunities to enforce the law even if the municipality has not done so by the age of 24. This rule says that you cannot wait between 18 and 24 years and do not comply with the law, and then say, You have nothing to do with it! This is probably the fundamental problem of finding a solution for today's municipalities, which cannot do so. But that job will simply have to be done if the age limit is removed! The honourable representative of the coalition talked about their readiness to sit down at the table and think. Good, perhaps, will be the experience that has been gained through many apartments. I don't know just what it is, and yet. Perhaps it would not be the best solution to sit at the table and think, because this offer is really the first step: the legislator says that the requirement of the law must be met, not wait until people remain older, because that requirement is no longer applicable to them. If you really care (as the debate shows - care!) people, not sitting at the table and thinking or being prepared to do so through many apartments, then I would call for this first step to be supported and then looking at further solutions, which must really come from the position at the moment, because the opposition proposals are all friendlyly rejected by all of you, working in vebinarian format. I call for support for the first step, thus showing that you really, even sitting at a table or passing through many apartments, have a desire to solve this problem and to support people who have no other way of taking care of themselves, especially at such a young age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U275	The name to Member Sandy Riekstin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U276	Yes, colleagues have unfortunately shown that, as the coalition is just beginning to debate, the opposition will attack rather than try to explain its point of view. I remain with what I said earlier. Colleagues, we can already, of course, extend this hope to these orphans for a few years, but if there is no real place to show this residential area, it will not be shown to them. That is first. Secondly. I think then we can go a different way. Maybe you need to review it (and the Ministry of Welfare can do it!) , as I also mentioned, these allowances for rent of an apartment. If that orphan comes, let's take the fields to work in Riga, learn whatever he does, and he can't be shown, maybe he needs the benefit to pay him reasonablely so that he can rent this apartment. And, my fellow Members, let's not pretend now! I still know, and you know about all these adoption business things. Let's call things in the right words! As well as orphan courts, many business matters... For forgive me, not all orphans are poor, and without nothing. That's not the case. Therefore, colleagues, let us not pretend to be what we are not! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U277	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U278	Colleagues! This issue of orphans, which is a very serious issue, is against a tragic solution. So the solutions to the question of orphans are forced to look for Ramona Petraviča, so I understand from the debate. But in fact, the solution is broader. I mean, the solution... Not just the issue of apartments... and not only the issue of apartments for persons under 24 or any other age... The problem is that in our country... from Parliament onwards, from Members of Parliament... and directly from members of the coalition... legislative initiatives... it should solve the question, which creates conditions, so that in Latvia, people who are left without parents, children who are left without parents, live in families of all their minors... and even reaching adulthood would not be thrown out on the street. This is a much more fundamental issue. We do not have such a large number of children in our children, but there are still quite a large number of children without parents... including living parents. And we are not addressing this issue in the way it is dealt with in other countries. Even from such elementary things as... what power likes - the organisation of various campaigns that promote social responsibility to take children into their families... as in other countries where children are taken into their families... relatives raise or accept strangers. And that's the case number one. The case is numbered two. Children who are left without parents and have grown up all their childhood without parents... I think this is a very difficult life... And there's someone in the middle. For many it may not work, many leave Latvia. There is also a part that has a pretty sad destiny. And in this context, I think the question should not be whether or not to give a child some living space. There's another question: to create a system in the country... and it can only be done under a position, not an opposition... a system where such a person, such an orphan, can get his property where to live, where to start building his life. The way in which he will build that life will, of course, be his responsibility. I understand that there is some financial burden on this, but we cannot go against the issue... as speaking position right now... and mostly - BIP... that the opposition is guilty that no proposal has been made. No, no. The task of the opposition in any democracy is: the number one - to point out and criticise positions of inactions, and the number two - to offer additional solutions in open draft laws. And that's it! The main challenge is for the position, and this should not be offended by the position, as Mr Riekstin has insulted today, saying: as soon as we start talking, it is beginning to criticise us. But that is the way of democracy! That is what is happening in democracy. And this is a much more important issue. And I must thank the author of the proposal for being moved. It's a lot more important... in the sense that we also need to raise the issue of these foster families, who also give up their children and not raise them to the end. And there's this business, too. Let's be honest and honest: there's business, too. Not always, but in many cases. This is about us becoming a country without children's homes at all. And if there are children without parents, first of all relatives, but if there are no relatives, then other people are those who take children and raise them. We're... start becoming more responsible to society as a whole. And so that we become more responsible, the more responsible must first become a parliament, first of all a parliamentary position, a power, a government, a coalition. So those who adopt laws and approve this budget as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U279	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U280	Hello, colleagues! I would like to agree with those colleagues who said that it really does not matter for those years, because indeed, if the municipality does not have a living fund, which, let us say, is to be distributed, then nothing will happen. And such constructive solutions if we talk about work... The Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has a draft law No. 352... another opening to the very same law, where it is offered... okay, you don't know... imprecise regulation in relation to municipal capital companies, so that they can at least in some way promote housing funds in the municipality. However, as was said to the Commission... When we look at this draft law, this scope could be extended. Therefore, colleagues, we must try to solve the real problem of the residential fund and then... Then look at how we can fix the number of years, because I really don't understand... If not... If there's nothing to share, then there's nothing to do with it. Therefore, colleagues, please, we will work constructively on draft law No. 352...! I'll be waiting for proposals. Please, we're on the agenda and we're working! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U281	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U282	Dear colleagues, I was so aware that Mr Riekstins has formulated a coalition's position that this provision providing for orphans up to 24 years of assistance is not even feasible, because there are no such possibilities... there is neither an area nor an opportunity for local authorities to carry it out. In particular, it is important from this point of view to support this proposal, because only then will it sit down at the negotiating table and think that it will not lead to this rule being ruled out from this law at all, and instead there will appear something else while waiting for the current draft law. I call for this proposal to be supported, because it can really mobilise a coalition to act rather than talk about problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U283	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U284	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I would like to add to what my colleagues have said... For example, what Mrs. Salute-Gross... on the fact that this proposal will not really solve major problems... because problems need to be solved not only when a person is 18 or 24 years old, but at the very beginning of the day, social services must draw up lists, identify in good time how many children will be next year, how many - five years later. We have to have a plan. I'd like to share my little experience with you when I work in Adajos. The social services were accompanied by lists. We've been looking in good time... and with some services, such as ss.lv services, we were looking for apartments, we took part in auctions, and we created both municipal residential funds and (not to be heard.) ... force majeure, when people have suffered after the fire... so we can already submit... Clearly, next year the municipalities suffer... Well, there will be a loss of EUR 90 million. In addition, we will lose another 50 million due to the crisis. And I have to understand that orphans... Of course, they are hard, they have no representatives of their interests, no friends, no relatives. I have to find in the municipality, well, some active people who could represent and knock on the doors of the social service, through the social service - the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Welfare... Well, very sad to talk about this subject, knowing that we are a country that... Well, we don't have a tsunami here, a tornado... it is not so that something would happen terrible every year that we cannot plan and work on such a matter and have been resolving it for 30 years... That we have orphans. It's shameful! And on this proposal, we all have, as if we're having a funeral, we're... Yes, we're very sad, but we're doing nothing. I therefore urge not only to support this proposal, but also to give finance to municipalities so that they can work more actively on this issue... And, yeah... and work together... If you don't come back... Although this problem has not been addressed... then the punishments, maybe next year we don't give its finances. There must be some possibility for local authorities to solve these problems and to build up some housing stock. Yeah, we can't start building a house right away. Well, full ss.lv with ads... Well, you can buy 30 square meters. During the year - one apartment, in 10 years they have 10 apartments. Well, with a little plan, you can do a lot of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U285	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U286	This proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U287	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Lochmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 53, abstaining - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U288	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's a editorial nature... Well, rather, it's the wording... about what is less secure... a person to be recognised as low-income. The proposal is supported and included in proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U290	3. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. That is exactly the same proposal that I mentioned earlier. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U291	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U292	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is more precise with regard to housing benefits... which issues this allowance. This proposal is supported and included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U294	5. - the proposal of welfare minister Petraviča, where, as I said earlier, housing benefits are defined. Support has been given to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U295	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U296	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau, which provides for a new procedure for the payment of expenses... or position... an apartment allowance for a child who has no parental care. So the costs for the payment of telecommunications and internet services, the costs of installing and verifying the water meter... This proposal is partly supported and included in proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U297	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U298	7. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U300	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. Yeah, well... This defines who is entitled to housing benefits. The Commission is supported and included in proposal 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U301	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U302	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U304	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Member Stepanenko, which provides for a new task for the Cabinet of Ministers - by 1 July 2021, to develop a procedure for paying compensation to tenants who rent residential premises in a denationalized or legitimate owner of a dwelling. This proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U305	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U306	Dear colleagues, It is very good that this budget has finally brought positive changes to the tenants of denationalised houses, as we hope. So this is a promise. But the very, very, very worrying question is how this reserved amount will be paid, broken down into how the interests of all denationalised house tenants will be protected, because it is not a secret that this theme that we have been wearing for years, which is still... which has still not been resolved... this is really probably the most downstream area in general... Well, now in the country. Because tenants of denationalized houses, who have been waiting for the fulfillment of promises from the government for years, are often in situations where, for example, the house in which they live collapses or, for example, they are taken out of the apartment line because they receive one extra euro at a pension after indexation... or in other cases. And it would be very important here to take into account that the right of tenants of denationalised houses to fair compensation... this right must not depend in any way on their financial situation. That is what all the representatives of the tenants of the denationalised houses, for whom they are most concerned, also declare. Because after these years of fighting for the right to compensation, many of the tenants will face the following question: how will this compensation take place, how will they really be accounted for, because these tenants are not only those who stand in the class of apartments, they are also those who, for various reasons, which I have listed, have no possibility of being in this row of apartments. They are therefore also listed, as they still have and have such a right to compensation. More. Because the new rental law... We don't know how this rental law will end... examination of the draft law at third reading, but not in favour of the wording of the second reading, voted... Thus, this new rental law poses very high risks to the tenants of denationalised houses that, with the entry into force of this law, they will automatically lose their ability to stay in their premises without waiting for this compensation. Therefore, there must be a wise transition so that these people are protected from arbitrary abandonment of their living quarters. This is also very important. Therefore, in my opinion, the Cabinet of Ministers should develop these rules, which will determine the number of these tenants, first of all, they will be identified, because the tenants are not aware... The representatives of these tenants have been speaking about this for years, but no one listens to them. Secondly, this compensation must be fair... and equivalent to the cadastral value of the space in which they are located. And, thirdly, of course, the payment of this compensation must also be brought into line with the entry into force of this law. Of course, I have also tabled a similar proposal here... rental law, but so that we can know how we will live next year... to entrust this task to the Cabinet of Ministers, I have also submitted to this draft law that the Cabinet of Ministers is already publishing these regulations in the middle of the year so that people feel more protected. I call for support. It is a task for the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U307	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U308	Colleagues, I would also ask you to think about the things that Mrs Jūlija Stepanenko spoke about. This proposal is to some extent in place, because I think the Cabinet of Ministers will probably have... I do not want to say that this will really be the case, but it is very likely that some kind of new compensation arrangements will have to be considered, even though the budget has planned these funds, resources for the payment of these compensations. The state budget has planned the payment of compensation directly from the state budget. But the medal in this case has two sides, and the other side - Riga or any other city municipality... half, who will also require a lot of funds, and in principle this issue will be the most affected by the municipality of Riga. And the question is, is there such a big reduction in the budget that affects all the local governments of Latvia... Also, of course, Riga Municipality is not an exception... This reduction will also be in the budget of Riga Municipality. And has anyone consulted with the municipality of Riga, or will they have the opportunity to find the funds for this compensation in the next year's budget? In my opinion, Riga Municipality – like any other municipality – could have quite a strain, a burden on the budget and it could be quite difficult to find a place for such new budget lines and ensure this other side. If we look at this proposal to provide for transitional arrangements that the Cabinet of Ministers will, before 1 July, establish a procedure for the payment of compensation to tenants who rent accommodation in a denationalised dwelling and who have used the premises before the renewal of property rights to former owners - I think this procedure should be even more comprehensively reviewed and... In direct consultation with the municipality of Riga, it is from that point of view that the budget of the municipality of Riga has the resources at all. And if these funds are limited and perhaps even insufficient for the payment of these compensations, look, on the other hand, at taking even this compensation mechanism more on the national side, thus changing these rules, because there is no stone in any place where this compensation has to be paid 50 : 50. This may also be the case, given that the State has already removed a very large amount of money from the municipalities. And, as I said, Riga is no exception. Therefore, in order to successfully address these norms and the problems faced by tenants of denationalised houses, this type of proposal is acceptable. And, as I said, even more, the overall approach of paying compensation between the municipality and the state should be reviewed... In proportion. In my opinion, the situation that is currently in the budgets could be particularly difficult for Riga. Most cases will be in Riga, the most cash-intensive cases will be in Riga. And if this funding is not available in the capital's budget, then the implementation of the law itself will also be highly questionable. Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported, and for this proposal to be supported, to be taken a little bit more broadly, starting with... think of how we will all tackle the problem that I have already outlined for my part at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U309	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U310	Yes, colleagues! Thank you to Mr Valaiņš for his comment. Indeed, in these times it is especially important to remember the proportion. Because, as we know, so far this proportion has been... Well, this power has been, on the one hand, greater on the other, nothing. And I really wouldn't want to see the situation like a rust with a house... When the raven comes, there's no house when there's no house, then the raven isn't... that we really don't hear from Riga municipality this time some reservation that something went wrong again, something doesn't happen, money isn't enough... because, as we know and how we see, money is very enough for new ticket purchases. So that - there must be everything right, regardless of everything. So we're going to wait really for this... ratio distribution... rules. And we really hope that once and for all, it will be possible to resolve this issue fairly once and for all, so as not to really have some of these people left behind because someone hasn't calculated anything, noticed what document has disappeared or something else... Thank you, colleagues. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U311	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U312	Hello! In this proposal, I see some analogy with the issue of access to housing for orphans that we have just debated, because there is exactly the same problem here that unfortunately there are no statistics on how many people could qualify for compensation for denationalised house tenants, because the registers that have been set up on this issue in municipalities so far... could only register those people, such as Riga, who had poor or poor status. And how many people who stay outside this status, but still continue to live in denationalized houses, they just don't... However, I would like to express my thanks to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which has worked closely on this issue, and this is why the three-year budget framework is planned for money, not only for 2021 but also for 2022 and 2023, where there is even a larger amount than planned for the first compensation... the payment of the first refund. In particular, for two years - 2022 and 2023 - three and a half million euros are earmarked for this purpose... directly with the idea: if the state, together with the municipalities, could develop additional social protection mechanisms for the tenants of denationalised houses, so that these people could register in order to be able to set up additional registers for the payment of this compensation... Therefore, in my opinion, this proposal by Julia Stepanenko is welcome, because it will force the government to develop the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and ask local authorities to produce these statistics, to identify these people, so that then, in 2022 and 2023, this compensation could be as large as possible... the maximum number of tenants in denationalised houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U313	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U314	This proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U315	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U316	11. - The proposal by Member Karina Scratch. This is identical to the 10th proposal that has already been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U317	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U318	I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”” in the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U319	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U320	Dear colleagues, On 11 November, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” and prepared it for second reading. A total of five proposals have been received. 1. - Social Democratic Party 'Conciliation'... Proposal from the Group. In general, the proposal provides for a complement to the draft law by determining the number of persons entitled to family state benefits and the amount of the benefit to be paid, as well as the arrangements for determining it. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U321	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U322	Good afternoon, honourable Members! You see a specific draft law where it appears... Not the way to calculate the benefit... and how it looks to their algorithm to make it easier to realize the benefit, any social, but... we see specific numbers. You know, strangely, in previous Parliaments, the Legal Office and the lawyers asked us not to give up certain figures, the concrete amounts of the euro, because in the legislative process Members cannot exactly count and know how much that amount will be needed for a specific benefit in the social sphere... and how realistic it can be for Members to justify its size. Therefore, in a classic version, the Legal Bureau asked us to delegate it to the executive so that ministers or officials in a particular situation could objectively calculate this amount. However, this year after the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the Cabinet of Ministers changed its position and tried to integrate through Members into legislation a completely different, legally incorrect way of... how social benefits look. You know that when this draft law appeared in the Social and Labour Commission, we talked for a long time about whether it was right. And then interesting information came out that the Ministry of Welfare, in its first version, offered Members a complete... to ministers of a completely different approach, which was much closer to the position of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, and to those people who consulted... Ministry... representatives of the Constitutional Court... Well, the lawyers who were invited... That better if... to introduce into the law the formula for calculating a specific amount of benefit. And that method would be much closer to judgment and people who work with the law. Well, that's... Above all, our citizens. If today the legislator places certain figures, it will later be very difficult to justify it if, let us accept, there will be applications in the Constitutional Court. That is first. Secondly, it is not objective: Members to decide on such a specific number. I therefore suggest that you return to the version that was developed by the Ministry of Welfare and was agreed with the Parliament's Legal Office, and which, at all, liked the Social and Labour Commission Members, who asked the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) to review this approach and return to the old tradition of good practice in case law - that the legislator offers methodology, offers interest, offers the starting position from which officials will then count the amount of their allowance. And that's why we... I put forward proposals that concern a particular social benefit... allowances to... return to a more correct, legally correct version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U323	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U324	On behalf of the Commission, I can only remind you that, yes, the Commission had quite a debate on this issue - whether figures or interest. In the Commission, however, the majority rejected this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U325	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U326	2. - Social Democratic Party 'Conciliation'... Proposal from the Group. The proposal provides for the addition of persons entitled to an invalidity allowance. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U327	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the line submitted by the political group... I am sorry, Members want to debate. The vote was also requested, but Members wanted to debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U328	Yeah, thank you. Maybe it's out of place because it's perhaps a question that shouldn't have been raised at the time of the budget, but... understand that today both the mass media and public organisations talk a lot about eternal children. It's very heavy... a heavy subject. And very often, you avoid talking about it because it is not realistic to offer a normal solution to this problem to the country today. And so to just raise the problem, I... Maybe I'm lucky and I'm gonna collect a majority today about this problem... Support... It is about children who need special care. While they are children with special care, disabled from childhood, they receive both benefits and very many social discounts and social guarantees in each municipality. The state and municipality are trying to support these children. But at the moment when they become adult, both very many municipalities and very many charitable organizations... and the state also refuses some kind of... over the pension... support. I therefore propose in this specific proposal that those children who have been granted special care allowance... they're very hard... There's Group I, II... to pay them their special care allowance despite the fact that they become adults. We have situations like this... And every year they... About 20-25... every year this circle expands... who are already adults, no matter how children feel. And when the state no longer helps them to the full, when they no longer have this special care allowance, which is granted to children, they are in a very difficult social situation. And in the state budget it may not be... not paying so much, it's 200,000 a year if we take all the children who have grown up in the last five years and who are still disabled... We will give this allowance, they will continue to pay... It will amount to about two or three million. I think it's not a big money, but it's a very big help for those parents who take care of... continue to take care of adults who are disabled from childhood. It's very... This will give them the opportunity to make their decision so that the child stays in the family, the adult who, you understand, does not grow up completely, he is an eternal child... and would not then be handed over to institutions. It's human, it's human. That is why I am asking for support for this proposal. If this is not supported, I will try to raise this issue with my colleagues in the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It is a step of a more civilised state, a step of a humane state, than perhaps some medically proven fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U329	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U330	On behalf of the Commission, I can only remind you that this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U331	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U332	3. - the Group's proposal. It provides for supplementing the draft law by providing that the state social security benefit is also determined by the percentage of the median income, as well as by the number of persons entitled to the said benefit. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U333	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U334	4. There is also a proposal from the Group of the Group of the Agreement that provides that social security benefits are calculated as a percentage of the median income. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U335	The proposal cannot be put to the vote because it was not supported 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U336	And 5. There is also a proposal from the party's "Conciliation" group, which provides that this benefit, as already mentioned above, is also calculated from the median income. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U337	Neither is there a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U338	Therefore, colleagues, all five proposals have been examined. Request to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U339	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft Act “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U340	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. A total of 46 proposals were received for the second reading. 1. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission which clarifies the definition of tobacco substitute products. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U342	2. - also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission which clarifies the definition of taxable electronic cigarettes liquids and other components, as it says,... which and how is taxed. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U343	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U344	3. There is also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission which clarifies Article 4.2 on "Tax substitute tobacco products" by simplifying it. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U345	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U346	For proposal 4, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has received an application from Members Evita Zaļe—Gross, Gata Egliša, Anita Muižniece, Normunds Gunna and Reinis Znotiņa. They withdraw this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U347	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U348	5. There is a proposal from the Member Valaiņa, which was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U349	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U350	6. There is also a proposal from Member Valaiņš. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U351	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U352	7. there is a proposal from the Members' groups - Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis and Yalinska - which intends to increase excise duty more quickly on cigarettes and to reduce excise duty on tobacco to be heated from the original offer, in particular. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U353	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U354	Colleagues, this proposal really provides for a faster increase in the excise duty on cigarettes than in the original offer of the Ministry of Finance and Government, and it has been done with the aim of ensuring greater revenue in the budget at a time when this revenue is extremely important, for example, for the additional financing of the health sector - both for reducing the lines and providing the necessary medicines, or, of course, for another area, if we consider it necessary. When it comes to an increase in the rates of excise duty, there are a number of factors that need to be taken into account. Firstly, it is in general consistent with the principle of shifting the tax burden from labour to consumption. And if there is an opportunity to reduce labour tax costs, thus leaving more money in the population's purse and increasing the competitiveness of local producers, then there are also justified increases in excise duties. The second factor. Excise duty is a deterrent effect for harmful products such as alcohol and tobacco. Of course, if we can, with an increase in excise duty, prevent citizens from purchasing and consuming these products, this is a very good result and, of course, it would be desirable to introduce as high an excise duty as possible. But when you think about how high this excise duty is and what its highest possible rate is, there are also several factors that need to be taken into account. One is the shadow economy and the illegal market - it is, of course, one of the key factors for Latvia, given our relatively long border with countries where the price level of cigarettes is much lower. If excise duties were too high, of course it would be an additional incentive to promote smuggling and illegal trade. The second is cross-border trade - usually when it comes to an increase in excise duty, then we also look very carefully at what the neighbouring countries are doing. If these excise differences are too great, then there is an active cross-border trade in such more complex, more expensive products, the internet is already an important factor (less in the area of cigarettes, but more expensive products are already... becomes attractive to this acquisition). Estonia is a good example. We remember that their government also rapidly increased alcohol excise duties at a time when funding for medical fees was needed, which resulted in a loss not of the state budget, but not of the desired income, because Estonia's previous customers, including Finland, and local consumers, started to travel to the Latvian border to buy alcohol here. Therefore, when planning the rates of excise duty, we need to look at what is happening in neighbouring countries. At the moment, given that this funding is necessary, our proposal is to increase the excise duty on traditional tobacco products or cigarettes by 10 per cent, rather than by five per cent per year, as proposed by the government. And this is also justified by research. I think that this study was in the mailbox for all Members and was an opportunity to get to know. It was also presented to us at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, where it was pointed out that the desired rate of growth would be 5-10 per cent in a crisis situation at the moment. The introduction of up to 10 percent would not result in a rapid increase in the shadow economy, and the public budget would provide them with the necessary funds. Well, it's estimated that it could be eight million next year, 17-2022 and 27-2023. At the same time, this proposal offers a more cautious solution to tobacco for exactly the reason I have already mentioned, so that the excise duty on manufactured tobacco is not higher than in neighbouring countries. Well, in fact, there is a proposal that after 2022 this rate would be raised to... in 2022 this rate would be raised to the Lithuanian level. You will see that, later on, the table will also contain other proposals from the coalition Members, on which there was a sharp discussion at the Commission's meeting, with a completely opposite approach: a rapid increase in excise duty on tobacco for heating up to 190 percent, thus actually making traditional cigarette products more accessible, which, in the opinion of some experts, is even more harmful to health. In the opinion of the Minister for Finance, such a solution would also not provide the necessary financial revenues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U355	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U356	Dear colleagues, Well, here we must start the debate on tobacco wars, as they can be called, and which have already been the debate very... Rather, I would even say that the Saeima's Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is also hot. So I expect that its debate is likely to be relatively long. Of course, this also depends on whether the applicants of other proposals will be prepared to justify their proposals here in the Saeima. But I'd like to start with that... set out a common framework within which we should look at what taxes we impose on tobacco products. First, most importantly, colleagues, we need to start from the fact that this excise duty on tobacco products is a so-called sin tax. We as a policy maker... At the very least, our aim should be to strike a balance between human freedom, including freedom to do for themselves, personal health, and the harm that a person causes to society. So here we are talking, of course, about what harm the end user of the tobacco product does to himself, because of course, on the one hand, he is free, so to say, smoke and peel, and use that there still... But it should be borne in mind that our healthcare system is a public public system, namely that anyone who deliberately harms his health must pay for his treatment not so much for himself, but in fact for all taxpayers. It is therefore quite logical that those who choose, deliberately choose, cause to themselves, their own health such harm - they must pay some higher tax on this, in order to compensate other members of society for the fact that they will then have to pay for this person's treatment. Second. When a person uses tobacco products, he also causes harm to the surrounding people. Here, of course, we are talking about products that create smoke that also contain the same nicotine or other harmful substances. Of course, we need to be guided here by how large this crime, this harm for the people around us, is from a particular tobacco product (there are several there). Of course, the bigger... It is also necessary to impose a higher rate of duty on products with a higher level of injury than on other products. And then, colleagues, the second very important consideration. It is that we, now, live in a country which, although its area is quite large (we are such two Belgians), is relatively specific in its form in the sense that up to neighbouring countries such as Estonia and, even more importantly, Lithuania, we have a very small distance. Practically up to Lithuania, as we know, we have someone, or perhaps even a little more than an hour - those who are residents of Riga. It is therefore very important here to take into account both illegal and semi-legal trade. That is, if we set an excise duty at such a level that our price of a product (whether it is a tobacco product or other) is well above that of this product in neighbouring countries, especially in Lithuania, to which, as I said, is closest, then... for example from the same Liepaja, from Jelgava, from Riga... We need to understand that if we set their tax rate much higher than in Lithuania, then in budget revenue this largest amount of funding for our health care will be paid directly to Lithuania and not to Latvia's budget. We must therefore be particularly careful here. Well then, colleagues, taking all this into account, of course, the question is whether we are talking about equally harmful tobacco products or whether they are different. The follow-up will follow, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U357	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U358	I draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that taxation and tax proposals - they must be systemic and proportionate both in terms of... if we are talking about excise duty on cigarettes or alcohol... that they should also be appropriate, on the one hand, by preventing or trying to deter people from using and using harmful substances, on the other hand, they should also be complementary to the budget. This, 7th, proposal is very balanced, well thought out and relevant, and is based on the analysis provided by the Ministry of Finance, which was also presented in the presentation by experts and Mr Saukas, and what was said by the researchers of Riga Technical University, when they researched about the products concerned, their distribution, the illegal market and the use of the products concerned, as well as on the risks identified by increasing or decreasing potential smuggling. In my opinion, it is precisely this proposal that provides both for budgetary revenue and is proportionate for products that are more harmful to health or can be considered as such, because we cannot yet talk about full research on certain products, but clearly a number of experts already point out that there are differences. And another moment. This proposal provides a balanced income for the state budget in the form of excise duty on tobacco and on heated tobacco. That is why I am asking for support for this proposal, because it is more balanced, more systematic and also consistent with the annotation, data and analysis of the use and possible risks of smuggling presented by the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U359	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U360	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U361	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal tabled by Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis and Yalinska! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Registration of Members' presence. It has been successfully completed. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U362	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U363	We shall proceed with the proposal made by Mr Valainis. This proposal provides for a slightly faster increase in excise duty on cigarettes and a much lower rate of tobacco to be heated than the original offer. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U364	Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 13, against - 47, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U365	9. - the proposal submitted by Member Dombrovskis is almost identical in advance, except that the proposal provides for a slightly higher minimum rate of excise duty by adding together the two rates of excise duty on cigarettes. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U366	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U367	Dear colleagues, Continuing on this subject, I would remind you that the only reason for us is to want to align the rates of excise duty on both so-called 'hot tobacco' (new tobacco product) and 'traditional cigarettes' only if those two products were equally harmful - to the same extent both to the end user, to his health and to the surrounding people as a result of smoke. So if the tobacco being heated is a less harmful product, then it would be a big mistake to set or try to set the same rates of excise duty or to set this as a policy objective, as the alternative proposers do at the moment, because what would happen then is that it would be delayed or even prevented by users... the transition of people from a more harmful tobacco product to a less harmful tobacco product. And if this heated tobacco is a less harmful product for both end-users and the surrounding people, then what will be achieved by the alternative proposers - a group of Members from the coalition - will be the fact that both the greater damage to their health and the health of the surrounding people will be caused, and the greater damage to the public budget in the medium and long term, because it is from the state budget that all these people will have to bear the cost of treatment, including oncology. Therefore, the question, colleagues, is: which of these products is more, which is less harmful? It is quite interesting here that the proposers had no real idea about this, that the proposers were unable, at least in a consistent manner, to operate with facts and research results on which of these products is less, which is more harmful. What was interesting, colleagues: when we asked for the opinion of the Ministry of Health, the Minister for Health replied that... At least a representative of the Ministry of Health replied that they were not aware of any research into whether or not heated tobacco could be less harmful. In this situation, colleagues had to consult at least two organisations themselves. One is the World Health Organisation. The World Health Organisation points out that, although it is not enough for the moment - and I stress - enough! However, there are several studies - both those sponsored by the tobacco industry itself and some independent studies - which show that there is indeed (I quote) a ‘significantly reduced’ exposure (impact, exposure) to harmful and potentially harmful substances compared to standard cigarettes. That, colleagues, is one. Second. It was only on 7 July this year that the US regulator Food and Drug Administration authorised the sale and advertising of heated tobacco, namely IQOS tobaccoco, as a so-called reduced exposure, that is, a less harmful product. Of course, this was done on the basis of available studies (including not only sector-sponsored but also independent studies). Therefore, the nature of our proposal, colleagues, is mainly to raise the tax on traditional cigarettes, including tobacco for heating, but to be one... I, my colleagues, will continue in the second part of my speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U368	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U369	Yes, colleagues, why am I asking for support for this proposal? That's why... Also in the context of this information and background information, and the analytical material submitted to members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission during the previous period by several experts and also by a number of corporate lobbyists... And here you have to pay attention... Both the other colleagues and the other Members who do not operate within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission - it is likely that they have also received appropriate advertising from the representative office of the foreign company Japan Tobacco International, or, as this may be said, infographics, in which it very well reflected and accordingly described what exactly a range of products need to be raised. The behaviour of this foreign company, informing about the possibility of raising taxes on one particular product, was of great interest to me at least. And by analysing both their presentations and the future proposal that other colleagues have put forward, I have found not a sufficiently correct or sufficiently objective proposal to amend the rates of excise duties on excise goods accordingly. One important thing that should also be addressed when deciding to what extent, to what products and how to raise tax rates are important is the experience of the Ministry of Finance and the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, as well as the information which is adjacent to the neighbours. So what is apparent, for example, in infographics, is about Lithuania because, for example, there is a corresponding reference to Lithuania's intention to raise the rate for tobacco to be heated. It turns out that no - Lithuania does not plan to raise rates for heated tobacco. And one more thing is, as appropriate, how some amounts can be collected. According to the Ministry of Finance, in addition to travel, four million can be collected, while Japan Tobacco International named seven million. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance, reflecting on discussions and discussions, and the Minister of Finance itself in public space, has said that it is likely that there will be no additional revenue in the budget from additional rates when one product is so sharply raised. And more of its norms... Also relevant, to which colleagues then referred, according to which additional duties have been levied... oncological investigations are provided... the wording then only states - it is possible that the Ministry of Finance will provide additional funding. Therefore, the question arises: are the proposed amendments and how objective are they? And I think that this proposal is more objective and balanced, ensuring a truly balanced and correct addition of budget revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U370	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U371	Dear colleagues, Continuing with what I am saying, I call on you to think mainly about the following thing: for the moment, the volume of all research is rather an indication that so-called 'hot tobacco' is less harmful than traditional tobacco. So far, this amount of evidence is not sufficient for the World Health Organisation, but it is already becoming more sufficient for the American regulator. So it's most likely... Most likely, this is, of course, not a hundred percent safe, but what happens is that at some point this research will become sufficient, even though the World Health Organisation (and this would also probably go up to the Ministry of Health of Latvia) would conclude that the tobacco to be heated is less harmful. If you do not support my proposal, but support the proposal of your coalition colleagues, then what you will do - you will disturb, delay and prevent the transition from a more harmful tobacco product to a less harmful one. And for that, colleagues, you will have to bear political responsibility, because most of you will probably not disappear from this country, and this is a matter of time (this could take one year, two or five years), but we will come back to this issue. The essence of my proposal is therefore to raise the tax on both tobacco for heating and traditional tobacco and cigarettes. This should be done in a proportionate way so that the tax on heated tobacco is lower at the level of Estonia than in Lithuania. This will provide both an optimal income for budget revenue from excise duty and will facilitate the transition to what is most likely a less harmful tobacco product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U372	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U373	Yes, colleagues, I will also call for this proposal to be supported, because it is, by concept, similar to the previous one that has already been discussed, one that had been prepared by the group of the members of the ZZS with the intention of introducing excise duties more quickly on traditional tobacco and less quickly on heated tobacco. Indeed, it is as Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, colleagues, says that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission had a specific discussion that no one was able to explain clearly which of these product groups was harmful... more harmful and less harmful. The Ministry of Health has also tried quite unconvincingly to argue that there are not enough research into the new products and cannot be assessed for their impact on the health of both the smoker and the surrounding people, which could perhaps be partially understood. But there is another argument to take into account, as I have already said, not only the health aspect, but whether raising rates will not increase the shadow economy or cross-border trade. If we support the coalition's proposal, which is completely the opposite: a smaller increase in excise duty on traditional tobacco, but a very rapid increase - as I said, even by 190 per cent - in tobacco for heating, then our excise rates in this product group will be the highest in the Baltics. Well, it would be 160 euro per kilogram in Latvia next year, in Lithuania - 113,2, in Estonia - 97,1. And it would also be the highest excise duty on heated tobacco throughout the European Union if it evaluates the proportionality of the tax on cigarettes, because they are not the same product groups, but comparable, given that the consumer can choose between different products depending on the price. And the Ministry of Finance itself has pointed out that such an increase in excise duty will certainly contribute to cross-border illegal trade. Well, and as a result, it is likely that there will be no planned tax revenue. For nothing, colleagues, you will see further in the budget law that there is a clause that these funds can only be diverted from the proceeds of excise duty to the financing of oncology services if this forecast is met. And it is not for nothing the Ministry of Finance, such a solution is proposed in cases where there are serious doubts about the expected benefits and revenues. Normally, if there were no extreme doubt, you would not see such reservations, you would have automatically planned higher budget revenues, you would have said thank you to the coalition Members for their good idea and you would have financed measures that are important. This time, too, the Ministry of Finance has great doubts about this expected effect. Since I also call for support to be given to this proposal, to the exclusion of my fellow Members, members of the coalition, which really seems to be, to a large extent, lobbying the interests of one tobacco company, so that cheap categories of products remain available, cigarettes, thus increasing the cost of the new products.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U374	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U375	This proposal was not supported by the Commission on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U376	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Dombrovskis's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U377	10. is a proposal from the Members' Groups - Indricsons, Herpes - Grus, Dūrišs, Teirumniek, Skride and Iksten. This is one of the proposals of the group of proposals for cigars and cigarillos... raise excise duty by 1000 cigars or cigarillos more quickly than in the original offer. If there were seven percent, this proposal provides for a 10 percent increase in excise duty on this group. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U378	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U379	This proposal, which, together with the proposal, aims to speed up the increase in excise duty on ordinary cigarettes, cigars and cigarillos, as well as on hot tobacco, and, with a slight change of emphasis, higher taxes on cheap cigarettes, a little relaxing on the end of the most expensive cigarettes, if it can be said, were prepared with a very wide range of options and... In assessing the possibilities of increasing excise duties in all categories and taking these into account, it could be said that research data are available. The offer to raise excise duty on cigarettes by six per cent each year compared to the initial offer of five per cent is even higher than in the last two proposals listed above, where it was offered lower. This gives a positive contribution to the budget. We also, of course, assessed a possible increase in excise duty on cigarettes by 10 per cent, which the Ministry of Health would have very much defended and supported, but that... This proposal, estimated by the Ministry of Finance, would have a negative fiscal impact of 3.8 million. For this reason, it should not be supported, because, of course, each proposal has a number of impacts and a number of objectives that we want to achieve. We prepared this proposal, primarily looking for additional resources for the oncology sector, because now too, the European Commission has declared that a cancer pandemic is no less important than a communion pandemic. A cancer pandemic across Europe takes the lives of many people every year, and it is now a priority across Europe. And considering that this year's budget has a huge increase in medical pay and other issues, other things, specifically the oncology industry, direct support for additional medicines or diagnostics, or screening, we assessed all the possibilities where this additional funding could be obtained. As the first and most important part of the offer was - we assessed the rise in excise duty on ordinary cigarettes, but realizing that the increase will also have negative fiscal impacts, we were looking for opportunities and looking at how consumer behaviour is influenced by these, it could be said, the choice of industry. Looking at the volume of heated tobacco and its increase in the nine months of 2019 against the nine months of this year, the increase in trade is more than 2.3 times, which means that this market share has doubled. In Lithuania, the market share of heated tobacco is already 20 percent, in Latvia it is less than 10 percent, but it continues to climb rapidly. And at this point in time, when looking at how people choose this product, we also considered that very aggressive entry into the market would not only ensure that maybe ordinary smokers, if you can say so, are replaced by ordinary cigarettes, but still a large proportion of young smokers are born directly by trying this hot tobacco product. And the World Health Organization has repeatedly emphasised that there is no evidence that this heated tobacco would be less harmful than traditional tobacco. Who do we want to channel this additional funding? According to the Ministry of Finance's estimates, first... In the following year, 2021, it would be 3.6 million, of which half would be directed immediately and the other half - after the results of the collection... Primarily it should be screening and diagnostic improvement... and specifically for screening prostate cancer for public money and liquid cytology diagnostic method for cervical cancer. The next section is very, very important: providing biomarker tests for public funding, because it would ensure much more successful and personalized treatment for each patient according to his type of tumor. And priority is also given to the inclusion of effective and innovative medicines in the list of medicines eligible for reimbursement, for which additional funds were needed for all previous years, and at present, if this could be said, there is a lack of some 30 million in this section, which was supposed to be on the subject, but which has not been implemented. Why is that? It could be said that there is such a very, very high priority, and these proposals will perhaps promote it, it will be small, small promises, the first promises, but we hope that we will continue and succeed in ensuring it on a full scale - all these needs. I call on you to support this and all the next proposals from this group of Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U380	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U381	Hello! Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! High honourable Members! Mrs Indicice already set out the substance of this proposal, which we have drawn up. I just wanted to perhaps also highlight some facts and issues that may not have been said and that to some extent... who are also touched by colleagues from the opposition, talking about their own... motivated to vote on their proposals. Let us remember that the essence of excise duty is to make the product more expensive and less accessible. If we look at data from OECD countries, then, for example, in the population group above 15, 24 percent in Latvia... 24.1 percent of every day smoking. It's one of the highest, by the way. This is not the highest, as the highest among OECD countries is 28.5 per cent, but the lowest is only 11.9 per cent. Since smoking is, let us not deny, a problem that causes - and undoubtedly creates! - very high impact on human and public health and therefore very high impact on health... to the health budget, because these many diseases, not just oncological diseases caused by smoking and these harmful habits, of course need to be treated and the state spends a lot of money on it. Yes, I would really like to say that this is a compromise proposal, because the original idea for the Ministry of Health, let us say, was to carry out a more serious addition to excise duty on both cigarettes and heated tobacco, or on these relatively new products, but we also understand the concern of the Ministry of Finance that indeed, this toll could be reduced by increasing very intensive excise duty, precisely because of smuggling. But I want to Oppose perhaps and nevertheless emphasise an issue that was highlighted from some of the speakers about these young people and as if - as if! (I stress) - less harmful products. Well, Mr Dombrovskis has already said in his debate that there are only a few independent studies that perhaps heated tobacco is less harmful, but there are only a few independent studies... We do not have convincing evidence, as well as specialists of the Ministry of Health at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission said that these products would be less harmful. That's one. Second. If we look at what proportion of the tax burden, or excise duty, is caused by the end or retail price of the product, then we see that these heated tobacco products are, indeed, many, much less exciseised, and, as we know and heard, their sales are increasing every year. So, in fact, it would be only logical here, and the higher share of excise duty, like cigarettes, would appear in these innovative smoking products, to which, of course, the tobacco industry, which produces them at one time and at a very rapid rate, is, at present, much more profitable, because there is a much lower tax burden. And, of course, the concerns of such a tobacco industry about this are understandable. That is understandable, but I do not agree with Mrs Švekova, who said that we should simply listen to what some of the big magnets in the tobacco industry said and increase these tax rates as they recommend to us. No, we have an excise policy in our country that needs to be implemented. And that is why I think there is no connection here and it is about lobbying one or the other product group; here is the question that we are normally increasing this excise duty every year, as also recommended by the World Health Organisation. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U382	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U383	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Discussions about tobacco excise duty are more pronounced than other proposals in this discussion and examination of the state budget show the need for transparency of lobbying law in Latvia. People need to know what interests have been affected by the submission of one or the other proposal. We started working with colleagues in the working group on the draft law on disclosure of interests, and that is where I had a conversation... I was contacted by representatives of tobacco companies to ask for support not to start a war on the issue of excise duty on cigarettes or tobacco for more or less, which right now... At present, too, because one producer does not have these alternative products, the other has. And the representatives said: we can already fight, but maybe there are some more transparent processes that can be agreed upon. And those proposals should know who has affected them. It is not concealable and should not be automatically condemned, because a good Member is active, but it must also be open. It should be known that the proposers and the debaters have their knowledge of the harmful effects of tobacco from particular tobacco producers. That's how I heard from the mouths of almost some of my fellow Members just... before, because they talked like these lobbyists who spoke to me. Because now we have to wonder how Viktors Valainis and Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis have calculated the same proposals. And you could still understand that, but the fact that they have identical numbers and even the numbers behind the comma raises questions about the true origin of these proposals. Following the proposals of the Group of Members, which we are currently examining, there will also be a tax on liquids used in electronic cigarettes or on the components of the preparation of liquids used in electronic cigarettes. And there, as many as three Members have dreamed of the same rate. Thank you to Mrs Švelova, who referred in her speech to the tobacco producers' presentation, which has actually been heard by a very large number of Members of the Saeima. That is why I also ask my colleagues who are preparing this proposal: on which calculations it is based and on which consultations it has been consulted, because there was a TV story that made it clear that Members are acting in the interest of a tobacco producer. And my colleague Dūritis, as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, confirmed that the proposal is based only on cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, which recommends raising 10 percent each year for tobacco and other products. Colleagues have deepened and achieved cooperation in several political groups and have also taken into account the risks of shadow economic growth, so this rise is not as rapid as the WHO recommends. I therefore call for support for the proposals made by this and future Members, and I hope that, following the amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the debate on the new law on representation of interests and the submission of proposals to the Saeima, it will be much more open than what interests stand behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U384	Name to Member Vital Orlov. ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mr. Orlov! We can't hear you! We can't hear it! We can't hear it! We still can't hear!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U385	Is that it?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U386	It's heard, yes, it's heard.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U387	Dear colleagues, The members of the Social and Labour Commission are always in favour of any increase in health, but, listening to the rapporteur, Mrs Indicice, I was surprised that she had already announced where the money that will be received from excise duty will be directed. First. When discussing the budget, we never heard from the Ministry of Health that they were asking for such... money was found for such new investigations or screenings. And when I hear that some new, innovative preparations will also have to pass on this funding, I have the question right away: maybe Mrs Inricksones can name the names of medicines, the manufacturers who... It's really necessary. And, on the subject of oncology, I want to tell you that, first of all, from mortality... is cardiology, not oncology. And, of course, we, as medical Members, will support any increase, but we have always been in favour of transferring the money found to the Ministry of Health, to the National Health Service, who will find a way to spend it, with his own priority measures. Please, Mrs Inricksones, be responsible for the programmes and perhaps the medicines already known that will be used... is included in the list of countervailable medicinal products.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U388	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U389	Hello! Thank you. Well, honourable colleagues, here I understand: the positions of the Members who are speaking are now divided into two groups. One group, I think, knows very precisely what they are doing, and why they are doing, and the other group is perhaps a little naive, which shows their statements about lobbying and so on. Once again, colleagues: the central issue here is which product is more or less harmful. That's the main thing. If we accept that people who want to smoke for some reason do so or so, it is in the public interest that they do so with a product that is less harmful to them and to the rest of society. I hope that there should be some complete clarity about this. No one has opposed this here. The applicant then hides behind two allegations. One statement is that we want to raise the tax on harmful products. The second claim is that we will channel additional funds to oncology. Both the first and the second claims are seriously misleading. First. Again. It is about whether more or less harmful products will remain on the market. If traditional cigarettes are a more harmful product (and available research directly indicates this), then what they will achieve is that the market will remain a more harmful product and they will harm... Since Mrs Inricksones complained that this potentially less harmful product is spreading too quickly - a tragedy! - Then, I guess, in Mrs. Indricksone's opinion... better for people poison themselves with cigarettes, with most likely more harmful products. Here, Mr Durish, I think that a little bit does not understand how the conclusions are drawn on the basis of research. He probably thinks that, behold, this is the area in the area that has been studied “from and to” and there is no more, which is to be studied, there will be no special new conclusions. No, this is a new area, Mr. Dourish. This is about the fact that, for the time being, there is not enough research. But what it all points to again and again: the American FDA will simply not make such a conclusion, simply will not give the green light so that the developer of heated tobacco can advertise as a low exposure - that it is less harmful. That just won't happen. So the research is not enough yet, but let's see what's going to happen in a year or two years... or how. We're just not enough for now... There is no need to confuse insufficient evidence of this kind. That is why the most interesting thing, of course, is lobbying. And here I think colleagues... that some colleagues who have spoken simply do not see - do not see! - the whole square and don't see the whole picture. So I explained: when I draw my conclusions, I get to the arguments of all the parties... the reasoning and I have carefully assessed it, trying to understand what the proposed solution is in the public interest. So on the market, colleagues, what is particularly suspicious when looking at the proposal from the applicants... there are two big players on the market. One player has both products – both traditional cigarettes and hot tobacco, while the other player has only one product – traditional cigarettes. And, of course, changing the so-called relative prices if the heated tobacco... if the difference is lower, it is of course a benefit for one particular player. And, Mrs. Voika... and so on... You probably don't know, but this proposal you're talking about is quite... even not quite, it's probably not quite... is simply identical to the proposal submitted in the lobby... One specific producer, which will make a profit from it, submitted. I hope that is simply a ignorance. I'll go on later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U390	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U391	In brief. I would like to point out that we contacted the Ministry of Health and asked him to submit him directly, and I would like to say that the needs that they had clearly planned in the budget, but which were not available because of the budgetary constraints. And I received a reply from the Ministry of Health to several pages and a table of their planned activities. The priorities of the Ministry of Health for the development of oncology, where it was inside... the inclusion of new, innovative medicines and the extension of refunds, the continuation of innovative therapies, including two screenings, namely cervical cancer and prostate cancer, and biomarkers. And we have also contacted the Latvian Oncology Chemotherapy Association, and their views and, to say, their needs coincide. And they as a special, innovative (not heard.) ... The group of patients with ovarian cancer highlighted the priority of the availability of medicines as this group of patients had access to a new generation of medicines but no longer had one since 1 July this year. And it leaves this young group of patients without any help to ensure a long-term remission of the disease. And also for the group of patients with pancreatic cancer, none of the... could be said to be possible with two medicines, but currently the only effective medicine is not available. And they have also referred to the need for biomarkers for all current cancer diagnoses in your Commission, Mr. Orlov, probably. On 11 September there was also a letter to the Ministry of Health that about 800 thousand euros a year... It is necessary to finance the testing of biomarkers from the State. Since we have consulted, and thanks to the members of the oncological patient support group, whom I have also contacted and consulted, and especially thanks to the Ministry of Health for its responsiveness, and thanks to the Ministry of Finance for the calculations, albeit cautious, but it is a source of hope that we will receive additional funding. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U392	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U393	Yeah. This is very beautiful and very necessary. The treatment of oncology in Latvia should really pay much more attention, taking into account statistically rather dramatic situation and dramatic indicators. But the problem with this proposal is clearly that it has already been public everywhere and is not even a secret... Only those who don't follow. They have not noticed that this is an open lobbying application, in fact, in favour of a player in the tobacco market, and, in fact, in situations like that, when it comes to oncology patients, but when we are in fact lobbying representatives of the tobacco industry, we use it cynically, so basically such arguments... And I would also ask Latvia to introduce the law of the lobby finally and not to be afraid of it openly... each politician is openly represented of any interests, including those of tobacco producers. It would be less corruption, it would be clear to everyone who is behind. At the moment, we do not know who is the beneficiary of such a lobbying event, but at the same time I would call on my colleagues when the lobby is obviously discovered, but perhaps not, let us say, patients of oncology. They must help, but hide the lobby at a time when they want to lobby someone, especially the tobacco industry, I think it is not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U394	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U395	Dear colleagues, Continuing on this subject, I am aware that the proposers have gone through perhaps not all, then at least some of the companies, doctors and so on in the field of oncology. And they have told them that, if their proposal is accepted, the revenue will be used precisely for the oncology area. And now, my fellow Members, I would like to read to you the proposal that we will see in time who will be in the budget law. Moreover, this proposal reads as follows: ‘If, in 2021, the actual revenue from excise duty on tobacco products exceeds the revenue forecast for the quarter in question, the Minister of Finance has the right to increase the appropriations laid down in this Law to the Ministry of Health for oncological diseases...’ and so on. I, colleagues... Again. The Minister of Finance has rights! Right. He has no obligation to do so. It's just... he can do it, and he can not do it. Therefore, the proposers have, above all, deceived, most likely... perhaps even deliberately deceived companies and doctors working in oncology with the existence of such an agreement. There's no such deal! The fact that the law provides that the Minister has the right... Thus, the finance minister in our country has the right to do anything in fact without any recording in the law, colleagues. And why is it this way? Because the Ministry of Finance understands very well, I think: since the proposers are proposing to do so in 2023 that this excise duty on heated tobacco would be twice as high as in Estonia or Lithuania, then it is a very good question whether any revenue will come from it at all. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U396	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U397	Yeah, thank you. Here we approach a very interesting discussion, where we also appeared from... Members in position with a clear position, with a justification for their proposal and with arguments and participation in an active discussion. But I would have a question for Mrs. Voika. Did Mrs Voika meet only with a lobby that specifically concerns tobacco, or did she meet with a lobby that represents the gambling sector and businesses and businesses active in that segment? Because a very significant fact throughout our discussion in today's context and overall budgeting is after... A little later, the question in the budget package, which was raised by... raise taxes on companies working in the field of gambling... Members of the new conservative group, who are now sitting rather quietly and not in the debate, but are taking part in the discussion on Development/About! and the National Association. From what we saw from the public reading of De Facto, we saw that these proposals, which Mrs Indricsones signed, were most likely prepared, tabled and proposed by Mr Debtor, who had previously been seen by the representative of the interests of cigarettes in the previous parliamentary term. Now is the question: the government has rejected and coalition Members during the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission meeting... accordingly, proposals to sharply increase taxes on gambling companies. And then I have a question for Mrs Voika and for Development/About! which seeks to justify in such a positive and logical way that it is necessary to raise tax rates in this way precisely for such a product. There are also differences in logic, as Mr Dūritis seems to say, on the one hand, that it is necessary to raise excise duty on tobacco products, but he does not support the increase in excise duty proposed by Dana Reizniece-Ozola, because in this case, too, income on the relevant budget lines would not be 3,6 million, as the current proposal supports, but close to eight million if the tax rate is also increased proportionately for both conventional and more harmful products. I therefore believe that, on the basis of the proposal or the support of a proposal, I think that we should stick to the principle that is better for society, which proposal or one of the proposed tax proposals is more balanced and objectively chargeable. Next. What discourages people from using this harmful product or from replacing the harmful product with a less harmful product? And one more important thing, you don't have to hide... and it is immoral in fact to define that, beyond the proposal of lobbying one particular trader's area, to ensure the interests of quite others, but also those of related companies, such as, for example, in this case, the proposals to raise taxes are rejected (not to be heard). ... ensure the adoption of this proposal by the operating companies, or through blackmail, in order to achieve the best option for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U398	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U399	Good evening, colleagues! This is the third parliamentary term for me, and every... almost every year, when the budget is being discussed, there is a very interesting debate specifically about excise duty. And usually directly in connection with alcohol or cigarettes. And unfortunately, it will have to be explained here perhaps to colleagues who do not really pretend to understand or know what is happening. When this debate on excise duty is taking place, there is indeed no main criterion here as to which of these products would be more harmful, which should be limited in order to minimise public consumption. No, in fact, all this debate is exactly as it has been said: which product has been more decorticated, and in this regard, too, this rate of excise duty is changing. And this is one such chrestomatic, an example that has always happened. How is it usually done? How does this lobby work? It's usually been that the first... These boxing statements are coming about that we must fight against the harmful effects of some product, whether it be tobacco or alcohol, a like product, and we will therefore rapidly limit it now. Remember, it was for alcohol, for beer, for other alcoholic beverages as well. The pale fighters came and said, "All this, we'll limit it now, because it's harmful. After that... After some time, another rhetoric appears that we cannot limit it so quickly, because in that case it is disproportionate that there may be such and such interests that we... that you also need to think about it and that. The logic in all this is some: that, by nature, it is all quite obvious, shows that this is the kind of political racket that is happening. A particular sector is being driven, it is literally being driven up, it is being said: if you don't ask now, then you will have that and that kind of excise duty. And then all these pale fighters or those who stand up for public health suddenly become softer for no reason. And as a result, very reasonable, very convincingly comes here and tells us why, however, such a large amount of excise duty should not or should change it differently. And here we see the same story today. Another interesting thing is that the same characters who used to be on the same scheme are participating in this story... they're not in the Saeima anymore, but... the same scheme was applied in previous cases. And that's why I'm calling colleagues who really naive believe... who have participated in all this story and the naive believe that they have stood up for the right, noble thing, followed by it and thought what you are doing. If that is not the case, please come and tell me. You have just said in this debate: we have an excise policy in our country, which must be implemented. Please come and tell me what this policy is, which you have to implement, unless it is a policy that I have just told you about, which is perhaps not just lobbying but also corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U400	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U401	The Commission supported this proposal. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U402	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - An offer from Members Indricksone, Herbals-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten! Please, let's vote! For - 68, for - 2 and for - 6. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U403	11. - a proposal from Members Indricsone, Herpes-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten. It is envisaged to increase excise duty on cigarettes more quickly, reaching EUR 104 per 1000 cigarettes and 15 per cent of the maximum retail selling price without reducing the overall excise burden, but increasing it and thus increasing the overall excise duty on cigarettes. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U404	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U405	I wanted to tell you a little bit about how cigarettes and hot tobacco differ now from the point of view of the consumer, when it can be seen on the shelves of shops, how dangerous the increase in this excise duty will be to make prices and choices and whether the price of hot tobacco will really rise so fast that it will promote the risks of smuggling and various other problems in cross-border trade. Currently, the price for the cigarette pack is on average 3.65 euros on the shelf of the store, the price for the tobacco package, which is identical to the price for cigarettes - 3.60 euros. On the other hand, the tax chapter in this price is very disproportional. If the tax on cigarettes from the total price... Total taxes are 80 per cent and 63 per cent of the price is excise duty, whereas the overall tax burden on heated tobacco is now only 30 per cent of the total price, and excise duty is only 13 per cent, so profits and costs, as we say, for selling the product... Currently 70 percent of what the consumer pays for the tobacco to be heated, while 20 percent for cigarettes. In my opinion, we could also analyse how the rise in excise duty would affect the price, because the price of heated tobacco has already been put on an equal footing with the price of cigarettes, which is not so much taxed. This difference in excise duty is also very significant. You could say that at the start... if this excise duty is so low, but we will raise it to tobacco that is as slow as ordinary cigarettes, then not by giving up cigarettes, people will switch to tobacco that is being heated. Not those five cents are now the ones who affect it, but the heated tobacco with other methods and in other ways enters our market. I myself experienced a situation where a large, beautiful van, colorful car with a shiny carpet could almost be said to be inviting any young man, speaking: come in, try, let's try, let's go, don't buy it right away! It could be said that this aggressive arrival on the market attracts young smokers - very many young smokers, the first step being heated tobacco. And no one can be sure that no further steps will be taken. No one could say... At the moment, the World Health Organization also emphasizes that the tobacco to be heated... At present, it has not been proven to be less harmful than conventional tobacco. Consequently, our proposal, which also aims to increase excise duty on cigarettes, but just under 10 per cent, as recommended by experts in the study, is precisely because cigarette consumption may be reduced because people may be aware of its harmfulness, while tobacco used for smoking is advertised as an almost safe product. In my opinion, this increase in excise duty and simply a public debate on these products will draw people's attention, and they will begin to realise that this too is very harmful. Our proposal provides for tobacco to reach only 50 per cent of the excise duty on ordinary cigarettes over a three-year period. I think it is far from twice as safe as conventional cigarettes. I also call for support for proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U406	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U407	Well, colleagues! This price comparison is a kind of salt... Well, not quite right, let's say that. Colleagues Ilze Indricsone forgot that, in order to use heated tobacco, in contrast to conventional cigarettes, we also need to buy devices that pay... well, I'm not a smoker, but I think now about 100-200 euros, which is quite a significant difference. Let's take a look, let's think, colleagues, seriously about... First of all... Okay, let's start with it... on these price differences and so. If a man... For those people who have already bought their equipment and for whom it is mainly the same cost of tobacco or something there, Mrs Indrickson offers an excise duty which, as I said, will be more, twice as high in 2023 than in Estonia or Lithuania. There is no need here for a doctorate in economics or any other science to predict that the proportion of people who use heated tobacco who either travel to Estonia or Lithuania for some reason or have friends travelling to Estonia or Lithuania will buy their packages in Estonia and Lithuania. As a result, tax money, excise money will remain in Estonia and Lithuania, not in Latvia. The money for oncology will remain there, so all her forecasts of revenue by Mrs Indricksone are highly questionable. That is why I think that the Ministry of Finance made its promise exactly that they have the right to do so, that they do not promise anything at all, do nothing and smile at what will happen with the proceeds. Go on, colleagues. Once again, I really find it very difficult to understand why some colleagues here in the Saeima do not understand this. If cigarettes are more harmful, then by preventing this less harmful product from replacing more harmful products, what you, fellow Members, will get... you will get more people who will have oncology problems. All this will be for you, fellow Members, the result of your action (or misunderstanding or what it is). I'm watching Ilmārs Dūritis apply. Vot, as once he applied to talk to me... I ask him to answer the question immediately: if he does not have any research, or how does he know what is more harmful, this heated tobacco or traditional tobacco? Why, however, did the regulator in the USA, a rather serious country, decide on 7 July this year to allow tobacco products to be advertised as reduced exposure? And in his press release, the American regulator wrote that, for the time being, the evidence suggests that these IQOS systems (as they heat tobacco but do not burn it) significantly reduce the amount of harmful substances and chemicals. Why does it say that scientific research has shown that switching completely from traditional cigarettes to the IQOS system significantly reduces your body’s exposure to harmful or potentially harmful chemicals? Why, Mr. Durish? So you want to say that the American regulator is incompetent, is it, or... Why are they aware of these studies, but do you not know them at the Ministry of Health? I'm waiting for you... I look forward to your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U408	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you that the sittings of the Saeima are still held in Latvian, nothing has yet been changed. If you use terms, please also provide an explanation in the official language. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U409	Yeah, thank you. And... During the work of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, questions were also asked to the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Finance identified a number of risks. I do not know whether colleagues, at least those in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax), are familiar with these risks and take them seriously enough. That's one thing. The other thing is why Japan Tobacco... who is the leader in the direct cheap cigarette segment, offering to increase the tax on cigarettes while reducing the variable rate percentage of excise duty on cigarettes from 20 to 15 per cent? That is quite an important question, because the answer to it - just to earn and earn more. And one more thing. This group's proposal... it appeared at second reading... and during the discussion it should be noted that the procedure and time limits for the adoption and entry into force of amendments to this tax, which relate specifically to heated tobacco, do not comply with normal legislative practice and may also be challenged in the Constitutional Court. At least a transitional period is granted for conventional cigarettes until March, while for heated tobacco new rates are already available from 1 January. Therefore, at least provision should be made for a transitional period for heated tobacco until March, in the same way as cigarettes, in order to allow time for adaptation and for appropriate measures to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U410	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U411	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! I answered... In general, first of all, I am rather surprised that the very honourable colleague, the highly respected colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and the very respectable colleague Mrs Schvekova so... Either, I would say, it sounds like preaching the safety of such a heated tobacco from the Saeima tribunal or preaching the less harmful from the Saeima tribunal. I'm really surprised because there really is no such data. That's your call, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis... you called the U.S. Food and Drug... decision of the administration... I can tell you what the World Health Organisation has said to this: “We repeatedly stress that manufactured tobacco is not less harmful and does not have a reduced health risk.” Industry independent research has shown that toxins in a heated tobacco spray are at a higher level than in conventional cigarette smoke, and a heated tobacco spray... there are some additional toxins in these aerosols that are not in the smoke of cigarettes. Furthermore, WHO emphasises that the long-term effects are not known. We know that very many products in classical cigarette smoke have the potential to produce carcinogenic effects on the body perhaps only 10-20 years after smoking. We don't know... These products are very new. We do not know, and I fully agree with Mrs Indicice that excise duties and product prices... higher price... and excise policy must, in fact and above all, aim to discourage young potential smokers so that young people who are almost 18 years old... and perhaps they can even officially buy these products... so as not to be so easy for them to do so that these products are also expensive and unreachable from a price point of view. We are talking about how to reduce the impact of these harmful products on the human body, on public health and, subsequently, on health expenditure. Consequently, I think it is wrong to praise the fact that these heated tobacco products are less harmful at the present time. There is no such evidence. There is no such evidence. And the fact that the advertising of this heated tobacco is truly encouraging and that healthy shops, stands and separate shops for these products are open - it only shows how beneficial a new niche is and how beneficial a business is for the tobacco industry. Undoubtedly, from this business, from this great profit the country has to take some part and devote itself to the health care of its citizens. It's just logical. In addition, you mentioned these appliances, these devices, which seem to be very expensive. I was so sorry that they were so expensive. The question is, by the way, whether these devices have been subject to excise duty. This may have to be done if it is not yet the case. I can't answer that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U412	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U413	Yeah, colleagues, I... Mr Dūris, if you are concerned that these IQOS tobacco companies can advertise, then, of course, the question is why you have done nothing in this regard all this time to limit this advertising. But I will remind you that we are not talking about advertising opportunities. We are talking here about the essence of which product is less or more harmful. I'm from the World Health Organisation, which, by the way, is an organisation that, I remind you in the spring, said that the masks will in no way protect you from the communion virus; now, as we know, this opinion is a little different... I can also find such statements from the Ministry of Health that in no way will masks help you, protect you... It also states that (I quote to you again from the World Health Organisation): “There are independent studies showing that there is a significant reduction in the production and formation of harmful substances compared to traditional cigarettes.” And the independent reports of industry research also conclude the same. It's just from the World Health Organisation for you. Of course, Mr Dūris, the same question remains open: why, in your opinion, the US regulator is so incompetent to consider such studies... that such evidence, however... There are obviously differences of opinion here, but once again - what you probably confused, Mr Dūris, is the lack of evidence and the lack of evidence - these are two very different things, my honourable and very honourable colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U414	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U415	Thank you. I would just like to draw attention to what Mr Duriša said: I do not really regard harm or safety, but point to possible risks of corruption and possible trade with political influence, which seems to be behind this proposal to be standing. And perhaps Mr Dūris, it will stand behind your vote in favour of the new Conservative Party's proposal to raise taxes on companies operating in the field of gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U416	I closed the debate. Colleagues, if you have any information about such trends, please contact the relevant authorities, institutions. So, on behalf of the commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U417	The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission supported this, 11th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U418	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the motion submitted by Members Indricksone, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten! Please, let's vote! For - 69, for - 4, for - 7. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U419	12. - a proposal from Members Indricsone, Herpes-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten. 12. The proposal proposes to increase excise duty on manufactured tobacco to EUR 218 per 1000 grams of manufactured tobacco, and these amendments to the law offer up to 50 percent of the excise duty on ordinary cigarettes to be raised over a three-year period. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U421	13. - a proposal from Members Indricsone, Herpes-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten. The total excise duty of 1 000 cigarettes is expected to be raised to €135.9 compared to the initial offer of €132.7. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U422	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - An offer from Members Indricksone, Herbals-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - 3, for - 7. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U423	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal made and submitted by Mr Valaiņa. Provision shall be made for an article relating to the taxation of liquids used for electronic cigarettes at a rate of excise duty lower than the initial offer. The rate is set at EUR 0,12 per ml of liquid. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U424	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U425	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Schmit's proposal. Same for the previous one. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U426	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U427	16. - Dombrovskis's proposal. And we're going to cut... a lower rate of excise duty on electronic cigarettes. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U428	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U429	17. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the name of the tobacco substitute. In the past, there were ‘new products’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U431	18. - Mr Valaina's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U432	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U433	19. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal to exclude point 79 of the transitional provisions. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U434	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U435	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Also with regard to amendments to the transitional provisions. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U436	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U437	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is envisaged to exclude point 81 of the transitional provisions. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U438	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U439	22. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission was also not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U440	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U441	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Powered off paragraph 83 of the transitional provisions. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U442	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U443	24. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission was also not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U444	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U445	25. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission was also not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U446	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U447	26. - Mr Valaina's proposal. This concerns amendments to the transitional provisions. Neither was it supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U448	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U449	And 27. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U450	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U451	28. - An offer from Members Indricksone, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U452	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - An offer from Members Indrickson, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrīš, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - 3, for - 8. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U453	29. - the proposal by Members Indricksone, Zaļe-Grosa, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten, which also provides for the addition of transitional provisions to the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U454	(Sound rupture) ... wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - An offer from Members Indrickson, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrīš, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten! Please, let's vote! On - 69, against - 3, refraining from - 7. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U455	30. - To the Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis and Yalinska's proposal for transitional provisions... non-pre-supported proposals... implementation procedure... The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U456	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U457	31. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal for transitional provisions relating to the proposals examined above. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U458	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U459	32. - Member Dombrovskis' proposal for transitional provisions. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U460	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U461	33. - An offer from Members Indricksone, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten. Partly supported and included 35. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U462	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - An offer from Members Indrickson, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrīš, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 35, for - 12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U463	34. - the proposal by Members of the Indricsone, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten, which sets out, in the transitional provisions, how to implement the changes in excise duty. It was partly supported and included 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U464	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - An offer from Members Indrickson, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrīš, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten! Please, let's vote! For -16, for -49, for -15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U465	35. - Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal of 114. ... the point of the transitional provisions shall be read in a new version. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U467	36. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U469	37. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is envisaged to delete points from the transitional provisions. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U470	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U471	38. - Dombrovskis's proposal. It also provides for the deletion of the points of the transitional provisions. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U472	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U473	39. - a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis and Yalinska. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U474	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U475	40. - An offer from Members Indricksone, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten. Addition of the transitional provisions to the point... The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U476	Members want a vote. Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - An offer from Members Indrickson, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrīš, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten! Please, let's vote! On - 69, against - 4, refrains - 8. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U477	41. - An offer from Members Indricksone, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrišs, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U478	Please call me! We will vote for 41. - An offer from Members Indrickson, Zaļe-Gross, Dūrīš, Teirumnieks, Skride and Iksten! Please, let's vote! On - 67, against - 3, refraining from - 6. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U479	42. - Schmit's proposal. Delete the points of the transitional provisions. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U480	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U481	43. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Valaiņa and Bergmanis. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U482	Colleagues! Let us start the debate after a break. There's also a record of Members. It's been a success. So it's a break until 5.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U483	Colleagues! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. Debate on proposal 43 Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U484	Colleagues! This proposal concerns an excise duty on electronic liquids. From 2023, an increase of EUR 0.20 per millilitre is foreseen... and accordingly there is a gradual increase as well as so far... 2023. Our proposal is to raise this excise duty even more quickly by 2023. And the recital - just a positive fiscal effect, given that in Estonia this rate - 0.2 - is already in force. In Lithuania, however, I must say, excise duty is still not levied on this new product group. While we were looking at the draft law and proposals in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, Mr Schmidt had put forward a completely opposite proposal: to abolish this excise duty in general. And then... you have also certainly seen that some Members even proposed setting their rate at a lower level than is currently the case with the government proposal. That's the argument that was mentioned... Estonia has experienced that despite the fact that quite recently they introduced excise duties for this group of products... As if Estonia was planning to withdraw it from 1 December of this year because of the negative experience... the rapid increase in trade in illegal products and cross-border trade. But it has to be said that we did not get proof of this fact. Information is publicly available, yes, about the fact that there has been an initiative by industry to abolish this excise duty rate, but this seems to have not been done yet. In the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) the Ministry of Finance also confirmed this. In the light of these considerations, I also call for this proposal to be evaluated and, accordingly, for this excise duty to be raised at a slightly faster rate than the government proposal... with a slight positive fiscal effect. Again, the principle that (A sound defect.) ... is larger than in Lithuania, because, as I said, Lithuania has no such excise duty at all for this group of products, but it would still be much less than in Estonia. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U485	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U486	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U487	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 43. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Kučinskas, Koites, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Valaiņš and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 52, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U488	44. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission laying down procedures for the inventory, accounting and payment of tax on the products in question in connection with changes in the rates of excise duty at the beginning of next year. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U489	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U490	45. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which also provides for the addition of an additional paragraph relating to changes to the law. The Commission is supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following points.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U491	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U492	46. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the time and procedure for entry into force of the amendments. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U493	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U494	The draft law was generally supported by the Commission at second reading. I call for support for the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U495	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! For -59, for -1 and for -18. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U496	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act’. 11 proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņš. The purpose of the law is to define and supplement it. This proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U497	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U498	Colleagues! This proposal also relates to a number of others that are being proposed by us. Conceptually new approach or new law... the subject-matter of the tax, which could complement the Solidarity Tax Law. The purpose of this law is now, in fact, to ensure tax regression for employees, domestic workers with higher income levels. We offer to complement the draft law... the aim of the law with the second point - to contribute to reducing income inequality in society by increasing the revenue of the state budget accordingly. And why is such a proposal? We propose that the solidarity tax could also be used, and I must say, for the old idea of taxing exclusive products and services. When the government pushed the tax reform in the Saeima - in 2017 - this was one of the issues to be discussed. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission held an active debate on this and entrusted the Ministry of Finance with the task of carrying out an analysis and presenting its vision of the taxation of exclusive products in the course of the year... excises... or in any other solution. The Ministry of Finance carried out such an analysis and... Unfortunately, at that specified time, it was not possible to come with a proposal - one that would be weighed, which would be acceptable because... what was clear - that's the main obstacle... At that time, it seemed too difficult to identify certain product groups which could be defined as exclusive products. Well, for example, if the yachts were hard to imagine that there could be an exclusive yacht or less exclusive yacht, then there could be a very large discussion about such a product or object as paintings, because the painting can be of great artistic and material value and may also be of less artistic and also material value. That is why we have a different approach to this draft law: not to choose a product group or an object group, but to take the value of the object, the value of the product. And... experience from other countries... We took Britain as a model, where from the beginning of this year there has been an extra... exclusive product tax imposed on expensive cars of equivalent value... about €50,000. Well, that is the principle that, if we want to apply a solidarity tax, it is an opportunity to complement the budget treasury with a tax on expensive, exclusive products that go beyond such a set value. Of course, value can be discussed, the Cabinet of Ministers can decide and calibrate the appropriate level, but this would be one of these practical possibilities then finally get to the tax on its exclusive products. That is our proposal. We propose it for consideration. Well, as appropriate, this proposal... voting in favour, broadening the concept of solidarity tax or the purpose of the law... because it is, by nature, a solidarity tax. What is richer, which can afford expensive items, products, services, is also investing in the overall budget revenue - socially important measures.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U499	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U500	Yeah, thank you. A very good proposal, which is also very appropriate in the context of socially responsible and balanced budgeting defined by the government. In my opinion, the proposed scope - from the point of view of the subject matter of value - to determine the subject of the additional tax, as well as to collect in the state budget the necessary resources for social security and the management of the social crisis - is acceptable and acceptable, especially in view of the fact that there are several... have data - and also public information - that in Latvia there are some very exclusive and very... the owners of the motorised vehicles. And it seems to me that in this difficult economic situation, where very, very social inequalities have become worse, it would only be right if the owners of such exclusive vehicles could contribute more to budgeting in order to provide the same benefits to the poor or the poor or to balance the other needs needed to cover the public budget in the medical or other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U501	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U502	This proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U503	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņa! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U504	2. - a proposal from Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Viktoras Valaiņš. As Dana Reizniece-Ozola explained earlier, a new taxable object - an object of exclusive goods and services is defined. And this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U505	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U506	I thank Mr Eglitis, who tried to reflect the substance of the proposal. This is indeed the task of this proposal, namely to define the taxable object by providing that it is a transaction of a natural person for the purchase of a good or a service, with the exception of transactions in real estate and financial services with a value of more than EUR 50 000. This, in our view, would be a good way of really supplementing the public budget's revenue, especially in view of the situation that... If you also get acquainted with the draft budget and the descriptive part, you will see that the main measures of the government to ensure tax revenue and reduce the deficit in the coming years are the distribution of municipalities, subtracting them from the income of personal income tax (educators, medical workers' salaries), and the feedback effect is planned, of course, from a higher amount of personal income tax and state social contributions. Increase of the minimum wage... Yes, colleagues to increase the minimum wage have a positive fiscal effect rather than a minus effect. And the introduction of minimum national social security contributions... Well, at a time of crisis, this is not the best way to add revenue to the budget - to do it at the expense of small businesses, to undermine their ability to continue their economic activities, to work legally (not to go into the shadow economy or become an additional burden on the social budget!) . Therefore, it is far wiser, of course, to look towards consumer taxation. We have just discussed how it is wiser, smarter and more efficient to increase excise duty. Then it would also be a moment for a really serious resumption of discussions on the tax on the purchase of exclusive items, services and products. That would, in my opinion, be much smarter. If someone can afford very expensive products in difficult times, then it can also contribute to the overall budget revenue, which we could use to further increase the doctor's salaries or reduce the queues or for other socially important purposes. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U507	Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Pause) We can't hear you! Victor, we can't hear you!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U508	I'll try to connect again.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U509	It's okay now. You can talk.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U510	Oh, yeah? Very good. Thank you. This proposal. So what should be taken into account when looking at this proposal and at the Solidarity Tax Law as a whole, which in a way symbolises the common approach to the draft budget as such? The Solidarity Tax Act is open to the public only in order to improve the situation, let us say so, to the recipients of high wages. On the part of the government, this is the only vision that the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima has accepted so that they can make this situation simpler at the moment, in times of crisis. At the same time, the search for other sources, which have come from the government and from the Members of the Saeima, who have turned to their proposals, has been numerous. In the past, when it was about excise duty, a very long and wide-ranging debate was held on where and what new source of tax revenue to look for. There are a lot of budgetary needs. And, of course, at present, as my fellow Members have already said, the local budgets, compulsory social contributions to micro-enterprises, patent-payers - these are those sources which, as the government has been able to think about, could provide additional resources. In this case, I call... I would remind you why the Solidarity Tax Act came into existence at all. The Solidarity Tax Act, as such, came about precisely in order to have a higher tax payment for those who have the highest wages, and this regulation has worked quite successfully, but we offer here... The nature of the proposal is to increase... it is necessary to introduce a new type of tax - tax directly from those people who can afford to buy one or the other exclusive goods at that time. I think if a person can afford to buy an exclusive product that costs more than EUR 50 000, then one or the other tax will not stop him from doing so. However, if we look at the minimum social contributions that we have, there we can see another picture. It is quite clear that these entrepreneurs, a large part, are not able to tolerate this burden and are likely to fall into the shadow economy, and the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry also warns about this. Here, together with my colleagues, we are proposing a new way of paying taxes, which, in my opinion, would not create great tensions for these people, but would at the same time add revenue to the budget so that this money can be diverted entirely for any purpose - whether to promote access to health services or something else... I don't care. We do not point out where this money is going, we point out a new source of budget revenue, and I call on you fellow Members to support it. In my opinion, at this time too, Members of the Saeima must demonstrate not only the approach of spending better on how to impose more or less excise duty on tobacco to be burned or smoked, but also other resources, financial sources, as well. And I also call for this to be done and for this very thought-out proposal to be supported. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U511	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U512	This proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U513	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Members Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņa! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U514	3. - An offer from Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Viktoras Valaiņš. As Viktors Valainis said, this proposal provides for the definition of a new tax... source of solidarity tax - these natural persons who carry out transactions for the supply of goods and services in Latvia. This proposal is also not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U515	The proposal is not put to the vote, but a debate is possible. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U516	Yes, colleagues! The substance of its proposal is exactly as the rapporteur has already said. I just add: it is thought that such an exclusivity tax should be paid not only for the purchases made here in the territory of Latvia, but also if a Latvian citizen carries out such transactions outside the territory of Latvia. When we come to the next proposals, you will see that the rate actually proposed for exclusive products and services is one per cent of the transaction value. Of course, this is about particularly expensive products and services, as has been discussed in the past.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U517	I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U518	4. - the proposal by the group of Members ( Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Viktors Valainis, Dauge, Dūklavs, Jalinskis and Bergmanis) to exclude Article 2 of the draft law, i.e. to exclude the tax rate of 25 per cent. This proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U519	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U520	Colleagues! This is a proposal which is fully consistent with the spirit of this law as a whole and which is intended in fact to ensure tax progress or to reduce regression by introducing an additional tax, this solidarity tax, to the recipients of high wages. The draft law at first reading has been approved, with a reduction in the solidarity tax rate from 25.5 per cent to 25 per cent. That is the argument that other groups of taxpayers are reducing the rate of social contributions by one percentage point and therefore, in proportion to solidarity for taxpayers, this rate needs to be reduced. In our view, this is not the time to reduce the tax burden on labour, including the solidarity tax on large wage earners. There are still enormous inequalities in the country, the Gini coefficient is one of the highest in the European Union. Experts estimate that inequalities will increase as a result of the crisis - not only in Latvia will increase; this is not just our problem. In Latvia, inequality will increase, so it is absolutely absurd to do things that are contrary to common sense and logic in this situation. From now on, the government is proposing a reduction in the solidarity tax, while for small taxpayers groups, a rapid increase in tax payments. Colleagues, do you imagine that this will reduce inequality and bring about justice?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, I'm not really surprised by this proposal, given that... I remember that as soon as the parliamentary composition changed and the new government formed, it was the first task that... The first work done in the Saeima was to reduce solidarity tax payments. Right from the beginning of the Saeima! At the moment, it seems that this direction is continuing, making use of every opportunity to reduce the tax burden on high-wage taxpayers. Moreover, in addition to the fact that, at this time of crisis, the public administration increases its remuneration, national senior officials increase their remuneration! In my opinion, this does not mean solidarity between politicians and society. Particular consideration must be given to... I think it must be understood that the private sector is already at the moment... At the beginning of the year, in relatively better times, the average remuneration of the private sector was lower than that of the public administration. This proposal is now trying to correct that error, fellow Members, which you... A little less... what you allow to show that you actually care about the recipients of high wages, you actually care about the public sector, its security. You are also going to maintain consumption at the expense of the private sector's stable income. Well, it's not, colleagues, a sustainable policy! I call for this proposal to be supported. It will be small, but I think it is a very important signal that you really have an important reduction in inequality.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U521	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U522	Yes, I will continue to reduce inequality. In this budget, of course, we see clearly that the inequality will increase not only in the field of the recipients of salaries, but also in the regional section, because in a regional section, the budgets of the municipalities that are Latgale municipalities will decrease significantly, i.e. they will decrease much more than those of the municipalities that are... which intrigue the areal to form. And for the recipients of high wages. Here, too, we see that high wages will remain higher for the recipients of high wages, the tax burden will be reduced for them, but low wages for those working under the special scheme will increase substantially. Such an approach, both in regional terms and in wage levels, I think only increases inequality. When this tax was introduced, of course, that tax... There was a very great initial resistance... and right now, too... When this Saeima started to work, it was constantly... is being reduced in some way, processed from the very first day, and this budget is no exception either. As I said before, the only reason why the Solidarity Tax Act is being opened is... this is being done with just one idea: to reduce this tax burden. I think if we were talking about the tax burden, then we could, on the contrary, reduce these special tax workers... reduce this tax burden. I think it would really be much more grateful than if we had not touched this tax at all. Who could tell you how big the risk is for our economy as to how... How many of these people, those recipients of high wages, would go to the shadow economy or look for other ways to get a salary? I think, probably, no one... or - very, very small numbers would be looking for other tax regimes... how to pay these salaries. Also in international competitiveness... I think that the existence of this tax did not cause serious damage to our competitiveness indicators. Rather the opposite. If we look at the provision of public services, we see that public services pay something. And in this budget, we see that the availability of health services will not increase next year, it will, at best, remain at the current level or... Access to healthcare is likely to be reduced. When we see all this, it really is incomprehensible why such amendments to the law are being made, reducing the revenue of the budget in the country, because it is the revenue of the budget, I think, that is what matters to everyone at the moment. In addition, it's done in such a stupid way when... Many international studies recognise that there is inequality in Latvia, and no one is arguing about it, but it is precisely with such proposals that inequalities are multiplied even more, I think, than there are any attempts to reduce something. That is why this budget will really be for those who have; for the rich will only benefit, they will become even more prosperous, even better alive, but for those who do not - they will probably not... And the social guarantees they are promised... And those... We see the public's attitude towards these social guarantees. Today, even... another businessman met, who also pointed out that all employees have simply been fired, because this system, a system of social security, which is so praised, simply does not trust the benefits. Previous experience has made every effort to give these social guarantees promised to micro-enterprises and those working in the special tax regime... It is simply these entrepreneurs who no longer trust them. And this inequality will only increase. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal made by our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U523	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U524	Yeah, thank you. Yes, the government, with the help of specially designated officials, is in practice very “successful” in financial capital repairs... system. As a result, very many companies feel... and many investors also refused to engage in the Latvian economy, invest in the Latvian economy and create their own business here. Unfortunately, the government instead of providing a common... instruments, including business... the burdensome bureaucratic instrument... the structure, accessible and understandable to investors as well as to companies that could open their jobs here and attract very high-paid professionals, has made it simply elementary - and it could even be said that it is not too correct for a low-income beneficiary! - the tax reform currently being implemented by the budget package. It's like the big pay for the recipients is being paid... the tax burden is reduced (even slightly, but reduced!) but the tax burden will increase for low-income beneficiaries, micro-enterprises, patent payers, royalties. All this is being done in times of crisis. It must be understood that an excessive fiscal effect by reducing this rate of tax, solidarity tax... not too much public budget. However, those people who already earn high wages could also bear their burden and also secure their income. It is not right to call this budget socially responsible and balanced if it imposes a lower tax burden on high-income beneficiaries and a higher tax burden on low-income recipients. I believe that the proposal is acceptable, and I ask my colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U525	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U526	This proposal, 4, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U527	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! - 29, against - 55, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U528	5. - a proposal from the Members Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņš. This proposal provides for the definition of two solidarity tax rates. So the first is 25.5 per cent, within the meaning of the existing Solidarity Tax Act, and one per cent of the transaction value of the income offered by the proposers. This proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U529	Neither is the proposal put to the vote, but the debate is possible. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U530	Yes, colleagues, this is a proposal to maintain the level of solidarity tax at an existing level. In addition to this, one fact has already been mentioned, which I believe must also be taken into account in this context. We now have the second most competitive tax system between OECD countries. Well, for the last few years, it has changed its place from the second to the third, now, once again, after the tax reform of 2018. To a large extent, the reform of corporate income tax is what ensures this result, but equally we understand that there are still relatively high labour taxes in Latvia. Unfortunately, they are particularly high in the low-wage group. And, colleagues, if we see that there is an opportunity and the national budget can afford to cut labour taxes, it is a good and correct direction. Only what is wrong is to reduce the tax burden in the high-wage segment and not in the low-wage group. If it were possible to even increase the incentives even slightly further in the lower wage group, you would see that the shadow economy would also be reduced and the wages of the enveloped economy would be reduced. Because in 2018, when we rapidly increased the unlimited minimum with all the administrative difficulties - yes, which are complex and would be desirable to correct - and I also very much hoped that, at the time when the government reviewed the tax system, it will be done, not as it is currently planned, that even more complex tax administration will be, but this is a different story - then there was a sharp drop in the number of envelope wages, according to the fact that it was the increase in the low wages. I mean, they dropped their wages... the number of persons paid the minimum wage and below it. This suggests that the part, due to the lower tax burden, was legalised. Colleagues, around 180,000 employees in the general regime are still under the minimum wage and are not fully covered, and this is one of the indicators to be taken into account when planning the tax system. Any support that can be given to this lower wage group is desirable and will help companies pay higher wages. We also see, according to the statistics of the State Revenue Service, that 24 percent of the group of these companies paying low wages is a tax debt. It is still an indicator of last year's good economic situation. 24 per cent is a debt of EUR 150 and an even higher amount. After the new tax changes, which also include minimum social contributions, for some of the workers, this indicator, I think, is... Unfortunately, it will grow rapidly. On this background, colleagues, you are allowing, with a light hand, to reduce not the tax burden on labour in the lower wage group, but on solidarity for taxpayers. I understand that this is a pleasant step for business organisations and that business organisations, as a partner of the government, are certainly happy that the government has listened to the recipients of high wages... reducing the tax burden. But, colleagues, you have to look beyond the cooperation partners. You must take into account cooperation partners, but decisions must be taken in a way that is favourable to the common economy and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U531	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U532	Yes, colleagues, I also call once again and again for a return to the current rate, and that is what this proposal is proposing... with a slight addition. Two things have to be put together here. One is the tax burden. The other thing is the public service, and whether the public... what is then the amount of public services that every citizen of Latvia can receive. And, of course, also the quality of public services. In this case, we desperately try to point out the need to look in some way at how we can increase the revenue of the budget without causing too much damage to its payers. And this proposal does not in any way, I think, cause any major, enormous damage to the recipients of large wages. Of course, it may hurt someone. Business organisations in this case - and I do not agree with business organisations here - defend the fact that this rate should be reduced or abolished at all. In my opinion, if we have taken this step, then we need - quite the other way round - to explain more and more where this money goes, that it is money for the health system, for our road infrastructure, for many of the things that are needed. Currently, the issue of salaries of employees of the Ministry of the Interior... Neither is that, in my opinion, properly spoken, but only separately drawn... Some structures with some increase do not really happen properly for others. And in this case, I would ask you to think exactly about how to increase the budget revenue. This is what this proposal is and would encourage us to support it and to think about how we provide public sector functions. I think the communion crisis in which we are now clearly demonstrates that the role of the country will not decrease in the near, transparent future, but will only strengthen. And to ensure all this, to strengthen the role of the public sector, we need to think about how to generate revenue for the public sector. I think this is one of those places where it... once this painful step has been taken. This tax is working, it is revenue, and I do not think now is the right place where we start talking about reducing this tax. In my opinion, we started completely when it comes to tax reductions... We have begun completely from the wrong end. I will repeat - reduce those who have and increase those who do not - such an approach is, in my opinion, absolutely wrong and it will cause damage to the country in the long term, and I think that those exascale tables that you are voting on today, by nature, all the time on what the planned budget revenue could be, will simply not be realised, and will not be due to the crisis of the community. These executors will not comply with the political decisions taken by means of legislation... directly because of decisions taken by Members of the Saeima. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported and for it to be returned to the old rates. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U533	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U534	Yes, this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U535	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U536	So, six. - a proposal by Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Viktoras Valaiņš. This proposal gives the task to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a methodology for calculating and paying solidarity tax from this new source of income. This proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U537	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U538	Yeah, seven. - An offer from Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Viktoras Valaiņš. It is a editorial nature, not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U539	Neither is there a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U540	8 / 8 - An offer from Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Viktoras Valaiņš. Also editorial nature. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U541	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U542	9. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska and Bergmanis. It is planned to change the ratio from 10 per cent to 10.5 per cent, which is credited to the personal income tax account at the Treasury. This proposal is also not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U543	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U544	This is also linked to the idea of maintaining a solidarity tax at the current level, without reducing it and accordingly dividing its application between different types of taxation and tax accounts. Colleagues, I try once again to draw your attention to what you are about to do in support of government proposals to significantly increase the tax burden on small tax regimes next year. The State Revenue Service had prepared a very good, detailed analysis of the implementation of the minimum social contributions in the government in the summer of this year. In fact, I am very happy that the State Revenue Service was so brave and in fact... Well, it can even be said that close to such a micro level, it has analysed the impact of each of the groups of taxpayers, stating that the tax regime for the self-employed, micro-enterprises, as well as the patent fee (which is being eliminated at all!) The regime will significantly increase the risk of the shadow economy, and honest taxpayers will be forced out of legal employment and jobs. Additional motivation will be created for the same micro-entrepreneurs to divide the company or divide the self-employed by showing income at about the minimum wage level. This is also the average payment of micro-enterprises tax currently received by those working under this regime. And the State Revenue Service also points out that these changes will result in a significant increase in their work, trying to control them, trying to return these missing workers from the shadow economy. Unfortunately, it seems that the government has not listened to the expert assessment, that the foxes have been on the eyes of all, and that decisions have been made to increase this tax burden substantially, on the grounds that everyone has to pay the same tax. Well, we've already discussed this here, that everyone doesn't have to pay the same tax. Those who can and those who... Those who earn a lot and those who can afford it - those who, logically, have a higher tax burden than those who objectively, even if they wanted to, will not be able to pay the same tax burden as the government is now going to push out of them. They are likely to become unemployed, go into the shadow economy or be forced to work as small wages in supermarket chains or on construction sites. In this situation, colleagues, when the tax burden on small taxpayers, those self-employed, those micro-enterprises who are trying to work for themselves instead of getting to the municipality instead of getting to social benefits... None of these regimes guarantees easy days. There is no boss, for example, for a self-employed person who... for which to complain, who has not made enough social contributions, to complain that maybe next month there will not be as much revenue as this month. These are people who run the risk every day that maybe tomorrow there will be no order and no income. Families should be kept in the same way. For this group, you will increase the tax burden as long as solidarity for taxpayers who, if you left this half-point and did not reduce it... there would be no impact on the number of those payers, on their competitiveness, on the revenue of the public budget. Think again, colleagues, how do we work together with our words! Before the elections, everyone is in favour of reducing inequality, everyone is in favour of a progressive tax system, although in fact there would also be a serious discussion and just as many arguments can be found on the flat rate. But I haven’t heard any political power, either, “Performance/About!” There has been some careful attempt to discuss this direction, but everyone else has spoken with one voice about the need for a fair tax system, a progressive tax system. And in this context - it takes a few months, and what we see is completely the opposite - the opposite of tax policy. The reduction in the solidarity tax is exactly the opposite of what you have declared to your constituents.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U545	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U546	Yeah, colleagues. There is really nothing to add to what my colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, said about the solidarity tax and the policies that government parties now choose to pursue. In principle... Basically, if some sort of progressivity were to be introduced... then all this is slowly destroyed out of the spirit. And with the political slogans that exist, especially before the elections, it is not necessarily linked. But I would like to look at this proposal a little bit from the other side. If we look... We call for an increase in the proportion of contributions that is now provided for in the law - 10 per cent in the personal income tax account - to 10.5. But where does personal income tax go after this rather crazy revolution that occurred during this year's budget review, changing the proportion of personal income tax? However, the vast majority of the income from this tax goes to municipalities. If this proposal were to be supported, this would mean - even slightly, but would still increase the budget revenue for municipalities. If we look again at the same part of Latgale, then on the Latgale side, even with a special shift to Latgale municipalities, it would even slightly reduce the missing part of municipal tax revenue, which is very critical for many municipalities of Latgale. Unfortunately, this government has not been able to find any solution in these budget negotiations. And it's very sad. At the same time, here is this solidarity tax, this section is being proposed to be reduced, which will also affect the revenue of municipal budgets. I would call for support for this and, if necessary, for a way for the government to direct this chapter of budget revenue directly to the municipalities of Latgale. I think that, with targeted grants, I could come up with a way to achieve this. At the moment Latgale municipalities are not inventive, but at the same time the government and Saeima members continue to follow the path which, by nature, means increasing inequality between Riga and the rest of Latvia, especially those municipalities, territories that are far from Riga. Regardless of the region, whether it's Vidzeme, Kurzeme or Zemgale, everywhere... or Latgale... This situation is very similar everywhere. But the situation will, of course, improve for the recipients of high wages. The recipients of high wages... Many of these people are already using private health services. Is that good or bad? Well, in my opinion, the bad news in all of this is that the public sector is, to a large extent, increasingly weakened every year. Is it hard to say, but it looks like it goes, because everything that is included in the budget... And this is a very fundamental issue, just like ministers' salaries - ministers' salaries are raised, but for those groups of society where this issue of wages is the most sensitive, nothing changes in their lives, but, on the other hand, the living conditions are getting worse. The same applies to the recipients of salaries. Inequality scissors are only increased with this budget. And that's exactly the draft law that... Without being directly in favour of this proposal, they will only increase. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal, and let us think about our municipalities, especially those that are far away from Riga, Latgale. The elected Members of Latgale, think before you vote, Mr. Commission in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U547	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U548	Yes, colleagues! Solidarity is just a word, is it a value that unites and strengthens society? What is now presented in the tax package that comes with the budget is that it divides society, divides and increases the gap between the rich and the poorer. This does not reduce inequality, and it is trying to tackle the social problems that have emerged in the context of the Covid-19 crisis in a very incomprehensible way. Instruments to promote social solidarity are precisely tax rates and the use of taxes to meet any needs, acute needs of society. And really, those who get more pay are stronger, stronger, smarter, more capable and definitely... because they are able to earn, they are also able in their own way to help those who are less gifted or less powerful and capable. And, in my opinion, it is precisely this proposal that allows us to go back and think about what solidarity is, what the Solidarity Tax Act was adopted at the time and what purpose it is achieving. That is why I ask my colleagues to support this proposal and to show clear solidarity also with the part of society that is less strong and which, in this crisis situation... This economic crisis and the economic downturn will hit the most. I therefore ask for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U549	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U550	Dear colleagues, Yes, honourable colleagues! So I support what my fellow Members have said earlier that this draft law, in the form it is today - without these amendments - really supports more high-wage recipients, so the strongest, and beats the weakest. What we are weaker is what we are seeing at the moment from the unsupported proposals. We can see that parents who bring up a child with disabilities remain waiting for those to whom the municipality cannot find an apartment. We're talking about orphans. The beneficiaries of maintenance, who have been decoupled from the minimum monthly salary that has now been increased, remain to be expected. We can count on countless different groups that will perhaps only be thought of in the last round, but do not know why this incentive to take care of some individual... Maybe a big gentleman can count on his two fingers... recipients of high wages... Really very strange, well, such a really strange understanding of reducing inequality you have. That is why I am, of course, calling for support for this proposal, the next one, especially in view of the fact that the municipal budget, as we know, will drop even further next year. Because this proposal is very valuable. Thank you to the applicants. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U551	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U552	Proposal 9 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U553	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 57, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U554	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska and Bergmanis. The substance is identical to the previous, 9th, proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U555	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U556	And 11. - An offer from Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Viktoras Valaiņš... This proposal gives the task to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on how this new source of solidarity tax would be administered by 31 December of this year. This proposal is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U557	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U558	I call on Members to support the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act" at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U559	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, final reading of the draft law on 'Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act'! Please, let's vote! For - 56, for - 16, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U560	Good evening! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information”. Five proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 1 of the draft law is to be excluded. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U561	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U562	2. - The Cabinet's proposal. The official publication also provides for binding rules for municipalities. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U563	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U564	3. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Pleis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U565	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U566	4. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U567	Members wish to vote in favour of 3. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Ples! Please, let's vote! On - 13, against - 61, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U568	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to exclude point 11 of the transitional provisions. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U569	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U570	Proposal No 5... And 5. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U571	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U572	I call for support for the second, final reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U573	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information, second, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 82, for - 2 and for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U574	Good evening, colleagues! At its meeting on 10 November, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined and prepared for the second reading a draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law”. 40 proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. It is envisaged to postpone all amendments to the draft law on Microbusiness Tax and to introduce a transaction account. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U575	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U576	Yeah, colleagues. We have finally reached a set of draft laws that I would call the most so-called draft budget package for next year. These are the ones that lay down the principle of their government that next year's budgetary burden will have to be carried out on their shoulders, I would say to small cynicians, or small businesses, small taxpayers. And one such group is micro-enterprises. This draft law provides for a number of cases that narrow this regime: both the rate is increased to 25 per cent if the turnover does not exceed 25 per cent, and consequently to 40 per cent if it is higher, and a restriction is provided that only the owner of the company can operate in this regime alone. If there are any employees, they are subject to the general tax regime. It is prohibited to establish a micro enterprise tax regime in SIA, and they will not be liable for VAT either. This means that, in fact, a very large number of users of this tax regime are extortioned from this regime. The Ministry of Finance itself estimates that, following these great changes in the tax regime for micro-enterprises, only a fifth, or 21 percent, of the taxable persons will remain. The others? Well, the remaining 32,000 will find work elsewhere, and 32 C.E. will use some other tax regimes. I think, with a clear mind analysis of all this, it is very understandable that, at this time of crisis, we do not have such opportunities on the labour market to absorb such a large number of new workers. Look at how many vacancies we have at the moment. How many new jobs are planned? I will be delighted if the Ministry of Economics really achieves its objective and creates 800 jobs next year, in the next budget this year - 1200, as planned by the Ministry of Economics as a result of external economic policy. To a large extent, colleagues, you will also force these micro-entities to operate in the shadow economy. Already now, the State Revenue Service estimates that a part, in fact about half, of those working under the micro-enterprises tax regime, especially those providing services to individuals, does not show in part their operating income. And, of course, this proportion will continue to increase, without the State Revenue Service being able to control this regime. When we discussed these changes in the regime within the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax), there was even an argument that there is no such regime anywhere in the world. Those, colleagues, are the lies! To say exactly how it is. Indeed, I assume that, also partly from Latvia's positive experience, when the micro-enterprises tax regime was created as a result of the previous crisis, in order to promote employment in order to reduce the shadow economy (by the way, we now have the same crisis as in 2008, 2009 and, on the contrary, we should try to understand how to strengthen such a regime, not to dismantle it), other countries have taken an example and tried to introduce similar regimes. Now, for example, Poland has also introduced a micro-enterprises tax regime with a turnover tax of nine per cent for some time. We will then also be able to discuss proposals prepared by Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, our colleague, based on France, a prosperous country. Well-being countries are also thinking of how to support small businesses in particular, and no one is thinking of the fact that everyone, including small ones, has to pay the same high taxes. The essence of this proposal, colleagues, is to give the government a clear vision by the beginning of 2022 on how to introduce a micro-enterprises tax regime that is understandable, simple, beneficial for economic operators, including by reducing administrative burdens and introducing a business account. Now the government is saying: yes, we will make life easier for micro-entities, we will introduce a business account, but we will only do it from 2022 if it is still successful. I call for this proposal to be supported - to postpone unwise amendments.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U577	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U578	Yes, dear colleagues! Now we are finally beginning to talk about the vision of this budget, about tax policy in the country. Let me... Let me tell you, so to say, to entertain you at this late hour and tell you, to remind you, if more precisely, how then you, the coalition, have gone through all their tax policies. So the story of the previous series, well, would be something like this: So the coalition before... It was after the first budget was adopted, well, when you... You remember that you all sat quietly, as you are sitting today, but then you said that it was not... It is not your government, it is not your coalition's budget, it is some previous government's budget, so you really do not have something to say about it, except - as you vote on it. And then, just after that budget, you announced that you would start working right on your budget and your tax policy vision. You set up all kinds of tax policy groups. This sub-Commission on Tax Policy... All those groups were now... those appointed to command who were particularly competent... especially in the field of tax policy. What's different? And somebody... What, colleagues, is the result of all this work? For us this year... I think it's in my memory... And I'm not even talking about my own, so to say, political career, but at all. I think that this is the first time that the Ministry of Finance did not even propose the so-called tax policy guidelines, which is, in fact, the main strategic document for tax policy, in the last, perhaps for at least 20 years. So I guess I guess all of these, so to say, the result of the works... Well, I guess it's been so ashamed that even this strategic document at government level... He even decided not to lead the government as such at all. So the next series. Where do we come from all those amendments to the micro-enterprises tax and other tax regimes? We are talking about so-called alternative tax regimes, we are talking about both the beneficiaries of royalties and the self-employed, and so on. This, well... I think every member of the Saeima who has been here for some time now, well, it's longer than just in this Saeima, knows that this is a kind of finance ministry, well, you can say, that's a wet dream... That's... How to finally tackle those alternative tax regimes. Now it has finally succeeded. The Ministry of Finance... As the officials of the Ministry of Finance themselves have admitted at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the Ministry of Finance also has this example, which is Estonian regulation, which, by nature, I forgive, the Ministry of Finance of Latvia has also copied, but in its desire to make our system more favourable it has been copied so that we have something like Estonia, but only with a higher tax rate. If I remember correctly, the Estonians have 20 percent. Well, the Ministry of Finance of Latvia offered that - then we have 25 percent. But one thing that the Ministry of Finance has not copied from Estonia is this so-called single economic account. What's that, colleagues? This means, in essence, that this regulation, which forms such a system that this small businessman... a specified account in which he receives all the revenue associated with his economic activity. The costs are also paid from this account, and then, with automatic cooperation between both the bank and the State Revenue Service, all taxes are also calculated using this information, which is included using this account. The main benefit of this is, of course, the simplicity of administration, because an entrepreneur does not need to attract an accountant or pay for him. And this... Continuation of this story, colleagues, will follow in the second part of my speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U579	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U580	Yes, colleagues! I'll also give a little thought to this... on the opt-out of this regulation, which is currently, by its very nature, taking place. And really not the first time this happens, there have also been other attempts in the past. But to start talking about it, you have to go back... how, in general, this regulation arose. And this happened during the previous major financial crisis, and the initial offer was as much as 18 percent if I'm not mistaken, or... Well, something about 18 percent. Members of the Saeima understood during the crisis that there was this... For entrepreneurs... The general regime for small entrepreneurs could be burdensome and voted for nine percent. Of course, at that time, everyone said what will be and how foolish it is, but over time it turned out to be... how successful this micro-enterprises actually are... micro-entrepreneurial regime. It turned out over time that, even if I am not mistaken, I will not say exactly which year it was, but it was a year of 2012 or 2013, when this micro-enterprises tax regime, which was introduced in Latvia, was recognised as being the most competitive in Europe from the small tax regimes that... What was... The Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, participating in an international event, received praises. And, of course, you can... anybody can only be happy that it works like this... The times came, and, of course, there were situations when businessmen came up and began to use the tax regime in a less honest way. Of course, there were also amendments to this proposal, so that it would be more focused on those entrepreneurs who really are these micro-enterprises, so that such tax optimisation schemes would be excluded... which was used... used this tax regime, which certainly did so. But when I put these questions together, I think that the vast majority of these entrepreneurs are really micro-entrepreneurs right now. And instead of making some sort of improvements to these micro-entrepreneurs, we offer them a complete change... and make this tax regime so complex and so unfavorable that, unfortunately, these entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, probably, as the Ministry of Finance was in some way happy here, will switch to the general tax regime. Perhaps it will be easier to count Excel tables, but I think what will happen - these entrepreneurs will simply return to where they have been. Many of them will return to the shadow economy and thus try to feed themselves and the people around them. And I do not think that such an approach is acceptable. Are those... When preparing the draft law, I think there were pickets at the Saeima, the Members did not come out... The coalition Members did not come, they did not speak to people. In the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) too, I think there was no discussion on the substance of this issue, the right approach - let us begin to raise all Latvian entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, during the economic downturn. At a time when they are in the most difficult situation. Colleagues! Think about yourself, isn't it abnormal? At four percent economic growth, the same questions from the Ministry of Finance and from various organisations were... There were also lobby organisations that thought that this should be completely eliminated now and now. There was this pressure from the official side to change this approach. But at that time, at the four percent economic upturn, everyone decided that - no, will remain, as it is, and continue to work to make these entrepreneurs work. They're bellows.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U581	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U582	Yeah, thank you. The practical liquidation of the micro-enterprises tax regime will affect 80 938 taxpayers. And the Ministry of Finance, in its report on the tax package, states that 32 059 taxpayers will not earn any more income from this regime. Any changes to tax legislation must be systemic, sound and appropriate for the time and economic situation. Both entrepreneurs, experts and representatives of the Latvian Chamber of Industry and Commerce, representatives of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, as well as micro-enterprises themselves, actively and reasonably explain that in this situation the government intends to make changes – it is simply to destroy people working in this regime and to take away their work. In essence, this means that 32 059 people are likely to be unemployed and will also be automatically unemployed. And in this way, the only way these people could choose is to go to the poor or disadvantaged... take a line in this area. Does the government really want to show solidarity in this way... and for solidarity with society? Is this the objective that this tax reform wants to achieve by proposing such changes to tax legislation? And, you know, the reservation that the form of the micro-enterprises tax regime is being used for unfair business... Then I will tell you: about four thousand employees are employed by the State Revenue Service. The State Revenue Service has highly developed, modern, modern analytical systems. And, in my opinion, even using these systems and such human resources, it would now be possible to select and simply bring those taxpayers who are unfairly using the existing micro-tax regime. As an example, I can only say: if in your house, for example, accidentally... or in the apartment... the prussack is in place - yes, it's a parasite, and yes, it should be fought, but that's why you take the fire and burn the whole house so that the prussack doesn't be in your apartment or your house? In my opinion, this is exactly what the government is now doing with the micro-enterprises tax regime, on the pretext that many use this form as an instrument of fraud, directly incinerating this house, in which there are, in fact, very many honest entrepreneurs who use this regime as the only way to generate income in small or micro-businesses, because any of the micro-enterprises operating under the micro-enterprises regime can be named at European Union level and graduated as just a micro... Hey, baby... the smallest component. At the same time as ensuring the social stability of society and balance of society, it seems to me that it is these businesses that are affected and that 32 000 people are left unemployed at a very bad time - the economic crisis - is simply unacceptable. I would therefore ask for support for the proposals put forward by the opposition to maintain the micro-tax regime and allow people, at least for the time when the economic situation has not been resolved, until the additional instruments of the recovery mechanism have been provided, to operate in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U583	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U584	Thank you. Good evening! At the moment, I will say that the proposal is timely and correct. And, Mr Feldman, I will not ask you whether you can talk about something other than education. Why is this proposal really tactful and strategic and should it listen to the coalition that is in power at the moment? Well, first of all, because the general background of the discussion on this subject in the last month has not been flattening the government. And it has shown that an understanding of what micro- and micro-business means probably those who have not done it... And, Mr. Feldman, here you are not going to make it to me - I really couldn't do it at the Ministry of Education and Science - but there are other ways and other experiences where you can do it... That this type of activity actually revived Latvians such a spirit of businessmen. And why is this proposal timely and correct? Because by creating a new law, it would enable the mistakes that have already been made, including in the discussion, including the approach, including to some extent dissonates among the members of the government, because at this point all the interested parties could be invited... professional stakeholders with experience to develop in their discussions an approach to setting up and supporting the working conditions of micro-enterprises, which would really be in line with what people have done. Perhaps you could look at the European context by creating a system that is graduated and accessible to various small businesses, because it is clear that all activities (and this was also demonstrated by discussions and also by my meeting with the people represented in culture)... Indeed, the volume of this option is different in terms of financial activity and in the way it operates, and all the time in one group should not be counted, but it is clear in any case that such a business should not simply cease because someone does not like it. That's first. Secondly. It would also represent a genuine interest of the government, not just empty words about economic recovery, including after the community or the community. This would allow us to show that the government, including the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, really cares about economic development, and could not condemn what is happening at the moment in social networks, that someone has an interest - on the contrary - in undermining the Latvian economy. No, that's the other way around. Making such a new law... draft legislation would show a real interest in people's support. And another reason. This could possibly lead to a certain transition from the previous system, which is also likely to be well criticised, to a new one. What's this... Indeed, in the interests of the people involved in the micro-entrepreneurs' environment, a new system would be created and would be able to support them, because in any case early or late, if you do not hear these proposals and do not support anyone at least in words, whether you will not debate and tell you about the future perspective, so early or late for you, it is this government and the coalition Members that will condemn what may have happened a few years ago, namely, how many people have left Latvia just because there is no pro-business environment, there is no support, there is no access to small entrepreneurs. How many of them have opened up companies, small companies in other countries, and how many have left just to open up companies knowing that they cannot do so in Latvia? By the way, it is easier to do it outside Latvia, not Latvia, in the same modern field of new technologies. That is why I am now calling for a very serious debate on these proposals and indeed for a debate, not to point to personal experiences or experiences and to allow someone to do something. You can debate it with arguments and perhaps also with sensible sentences, because I think... and promises of what can be done in the future by this government and this coalition, because we probably all know that this debate will really be followed by people involved in many sectors, including the cultural sector, waiting for answers, because quite a large part of these people cannot at present be attributed either a short-term job or a subsidised job - a support that the community promises in the situation. And not this type of support or lines of unemployed will encourage our business. I would, however, urge you not to kill the flourishing spirit of entrepreneurship that appeared in people the previous time, and there are many such stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-24-PT13-2146-U585	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Stein, Bauman, Bondar, Papule and Dombrovskis ask for a break by 9 a.m. on November 25, this year. We must vote on this. Please see the procedure section. We can vote. Please call me! We will vote for a break before 9 a.m. on November 25th this year! Please, let's vote! For - 81, for - 2 and for - 1. Decision adopted. We will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. There's also a record of Members. Registration has been successfully completed. Thank you all for your work today. ( Interruption)
