ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Good morning, Prime Minister. The first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 17 December 2020. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision “On Expression of Trust to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Arturs Tom Plīšs”. So the first talk was applied by Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš. Mr. Karins, you have to register in the e-system. Thank you. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U2	Thank you. Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U3	Mr. Karins, one moment! It would be good if you turned the camera on to the computer.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U4	Yeah. I'm as if I'm locked in. Okay. I'm really sorry, I'm obviously in the system... I also have a completely black picture at my end. Can I talk without a camera? Do I try to get on again, Madam President?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U5	Try to exit and re-enter the system. ( Pause) Dear colleagues, Technical break by 9.20 a.m. So let's keep working at 9: 20 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U6	Dear colleagues, Let us continue the sitting of the Saeima after a technical break. So on the agenda - draft decision “On the expression of trust in the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arturs Tom Plēšs”. In the debate, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš applied to speak. The name of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U7	Thank you. Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! This morning there is a question about the new... possible Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Arturs Toms Plēšs is a candidate, a coalition partner for Development/About! has been nominated. You, colleagues in the Saeima, know Art well because he works in the Saeima also as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. I also met him, we had a longer, more detailed conversation. I can say that, from the potential candidates that we have in Latvia for this position at the moment, Arthur Tom Ples is probably one of the best candidates, because he has been working as a parliamentary secretary since the establishment of this government and is very familiar with the specifics of the Ministry. But even more important is his... Speaking... I had the impression that he had a good idea of both digitalisation and climate issues, of course, of putting administrative territorial reform into practice, and also a rather clear vision of how he would like to move forward. So, as the Head of Government, I offer you to discuss these candidates. I can also say that the government has been working for a long time in part-time, which is burdensome in all circumstances, but in such a crisis - with the entire community pandemic - it is more than burdensome. Our defence minister has also been forced to perform the functions of two ministers, and this is not, in any case, one good long-term way for the government to act. So we are a coalition of five parties. Our coalition partner association Development/About! Artis Toms Plēks has nominated - he has offered me, and accordingly I have offered you this candidacy. But I can also say that, after the talks with Arthur, I think this is not just a simple political candidacy, but actually also a person who understands the task and is ready to carry out these duties and is with his vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U8	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Colleagues, let's start the debate. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U9	Dear President of the Saeima. Sir, Dear Members, Honourable Members! I would first like to thank Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš for his trust and his support for my candidacy. I would also like to thank my colleagues from Development/For! on the guarantee of trust given to me in the conduct of my candidacy as Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. I would also like to thank the coalition partners as well as the other parliamentarians for their support so far. If the Saeima approves my candidacy for the post of Minister, I will perform my duties with utmost diligence, respect and respect. One of the priorities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is the implementation of administrative territorial reform, which has now entered the finish line. I have been working on the reform from the very beginning, so I can assure you that this historic step that we have taken together will enable citizens to provide equivalent and better quality services, whether it be education, social services or others, regardless of their place of residence. It will also help to reduce regional disparities and income disparities, attract additional investment and create the ground for more economically strong municipalities, which will also have more opportunities to maintain the unique identity and cultural heritage of each municipality. Local government reform also includes a promise to provide targeted support to local governments so that Latvia can be proud of strong and modern regions, contemporary governance and wider public involvement. It will be ensured by the reform of municipal administration or the new municipal law, which will be submitted by the Ministry to the State Chancellery for viewing in the Cabinet of Ministers and then to the Saeima accordingly. It is equally important to pick up the speed so that Latvia is heading in a greener direction and fully implement the digital development of the country. Latvia must become a climate-neutral, truly green and digital country. This is our opportunity to transform the economy so that it contributes to every citizen and serves as a driving force for the economy without leaving behind the sea of pollution, emissions and waste. We must continue to work closely with our partners in this area in the European Union, but at the same time we must do everything we can to be proud of our own way in our homestead. For example, there is a need to develop mechanisms that allow the transport sector to become greener, paying particular attention to the very low... or to increase the proportion of emissions-free cars. It is also necessary to work on limiting the use of disposable plastics in retail trade in order to reduce pollution in the Baltic Sea, rivers and lakes, in our forests and also in the common European space. A clean, well-ordered and human-friendly environment is one of the prerequisites for a modern society. I am proud of the work done and the work invested in developing a deposit system for the packaging of beverages. It will start its work in 2022 and will give every Latvian citizen the opportunity to participate in the creation of a greener future. The results of the selection of the deposit system are also expected shortly. We also need to address the issue of used tyres, so that these environmentally harmful waste wastes can be recycled, disposed of and given a second life rather than an endless accumulation of tyre mountains. I would also like to stress that the work on environmental protection never ends. That is why I am determined to fight for the right of Latvian citizens to live in an environmentally friendly country. For example, the summer of 2021 will conclude a unique scale project “The Counting of Nature”, which will allow to obtain a significant amount of information and data on natural values found in Latvia, and the resulting data will help to balance the development of nature conservation and the economy more effectively, while also ensuring that we will take care of biodiversity conservation. Therefore, in order for us to seduce not only in a prosperous but also in a green future, the identification and limitation of the effects of climate change must be one of our main driving forces. But, colleagues, it is also clear that our biggest challenge today is the spread of Covid-19 and its limitation. I am aware that we are all tired and cannot wait for life to return to any normal railroads. I am aware that not everyone has been equally hard hit by this crisis. I am aware that people are suffering both from viral infections and from restrictions that have entered into force in order to combat it, but the lives of the fellow people who have disappeared in the Covid-19 are a cruel reminder of the fact that we are affected by the global cataclysm that we have to deal with. I am convinced that we will be able to overcome this crisis together. In the fight against this invisible enemy, I will support the government of Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš as well as Minister. Colleagues know me as a team player, as a person who takes seven times before cutting, trusting in science, expert opinion and competent industry representatives who, with their knowledge and experience, have proven the credibility of their names. I'm open to communication, that's what colleagues know. I can talk and I can hear. Yes, I can become the first member of the Cabinet of Ministers, who was born after the restoration of independence in the free Republic of Latvia, and yes, I can't yet be proud of the decades of history in the public administration, but, as I have shown so far, I am prepared to work hard to ensure that the age is suitable, powerful and inclusive growth for all Latvians. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U10	Thank you. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U11	Dear colleagues, Initially, it seemed that party associations for Development/Par could be directed to the position of minister! Head of the parliamentary group, Daniel Pavluts, because he has the Minister's experience, as well as his apparent desire to serve as a minister. But then the Saeima's Group for Development/About! lose the manager and get into it, Maris Mičerevskis, who, to put it mildly, has hit Minister Jurs Pūce quite accurately and his immediate surroundings at the foot of Achilles. Mičerevski's presence as a next line to the Saeima was probably able to make Arthur Tom Plēks a minister. Mr Plesc may not be the worst choice, but I do not see anything bright and positive to direct his candidacy. The plug is chosen not because he would be new, good and perspective, but because the Pavilut cannot. At the same time, I congratulate the Party Association on New Unity, which I believe has succeeded in masterfully, creatively and wisely defeating rebels from Development/About! who had a serious desire for the post of Prime Minister. Now this Development/About! the success story is over. Ladies and gentlemen, to support what is meant by taking responsibility. We cannot take responsibility for this candidate, nor are we prepared to offer support measures to this official. We do not want to show solidarity with the chaotic and hysterical actions of the government, we cannot support the chameleon games in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U12	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U13	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, It is clear that this issue is very important for our country at the moment. Of course, we can judge a great deal about this nomination, but I hope that this new minister can carry out the tasks for this government in the context of administrative territorial reform and also on other issues. However, I would like to point out a few points that the Minister... The new minister will need to address them as soon as possible. It is clear that the law on the establishment of new administrative territories and settlements, adopted, places very great responsibilities on the new minister, because there is still an opinion... My view, too, is that the law adopted is, however, a parachute that should be corrected more or less. Well, even such an example that when creating the new regions, it was declared that the new regions would have to be self-sufficient to ensure the development of these regions. I would like to mention some specific figures. In 2018, from 119 municipalities only three cities of the republican Republic - Jurmala, Riga, Ventspils - and 12 municipalities - Ādažu, Babītes, Carnikavas, Garkalne, Ikšķiles, Ķekavas, Mārupes, Olaines, Salaspils, Saulkrasti, Siguldas and Stopini were self-sufficient. In 2019 three cities and nine municipalities were no longer self-sufficient. In 2020, there were only two cities in the republic and nine municipalities. On this list of municipalities, for example, the municipality of Ikšķiles was also sufficient as a self-sustaining. Then the first question, which should be considered and distinguished, is that the new law provides for the creation of an Ogres municipality, where the municipality of Ikšķiles is added to the Ogres municipality. But perhaps it would be more economically and financially justified to add Ogres municipality to Ikšķile municipality and name the whole region as Ikšķile municipality because it has its own justification. Ikšķiles region was among these self-sufficient regions also in 2020. Saulkrastu region is also among the municipalities that have contributed to the fund for financial equalisation of municipalities over the last three years. And the Saulkrasti region, regardless of the criteria set, is self-sufficient. Therefore, no explanation can be found why it would be necessary to add to Saulkrasti municipality the removed Skulte parish, which is rich enough... which is rich and important in Limbaži Municipality... is sufficiently significant. So the question remains unanswered: what will happen with grants from the municipal financial equalisation fund? After the reform, will all new municipalities be self-sufficient and no longer need a state grant? When signing the Law on Administrative Territories and settlements, the President of Latvia also implicitly acknowledged that this reform was poorly prepared. In my opinion, the entry into force of the law should be postponed for some time until the law on the creation of administrative regions is resolved because, as is known, Article 14 of the Law on Administrative Territories and localities provides for the establishment of administrative regions and the preparation of a draft law by 1 January 2021. And then the newly created regions should be entrusted with deciding for themselves how and what local municipalities will be built in each region. I am sure that the local maps created by regional administrations will differ significantly from the Latvian local maps prepared and created by SIA “Kards publishing house Jāņa sēta”. I would also like to say that the current draft law “Law of the Historical Countries of Latvia” is also of some kind, say, different strangeness or perhaps even meanings, for example, the third paragraph of Section 5 provides that indigenous people in Latvia are Livs. Well, I don't think it's right, because how's the rest? The Latvians, the Latgalians - are we here? I don't think so. Go on. I would like to say that the new minister could perhaps pay more attention to the overall development of the country, thinking about public administration not only at local level, but also at the same time in terms of reforms of regions and public administrations (and thus ministries and institutions), because it is not possible to develop the country and also to provide functions at local and regional level, without prejudice to public institutions. It is clear that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development plays a huge role in the development of the country. This chronic unequal development, which is in Latvia, is practically in many of the figures our country has been in the last place among the Member States of the European Union. I hope that these proposals will be taken into account and that the Minister will also be responsive and focused on virtually all the cooperation - both Members and politicians - that is aimed at... and make proposals for the common development of our country. However, I wish the Minister, as he says, a good lifting bag... The wind of the road! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U14	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U15	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister! I would like to start this speech with our Prime Minister's address to Latvian society on Latvian Television, where the Prime Minister said: "Friends, it's not good!" , and I think “Friends, not good!” - it is not the thing every Latvian citizen wanted to hear from the Prime Minister in such an extraordinary address. Also hear the phrase “Friends, Not Good!” I think that is what every citizen of Latvia, businessman, parent, employee of the institution who is currently waiting for new restrictions, especially if these restrictions will have an impact on their business or otherwise. ‘ Friends, it's not good!” - it is a general phrase which, by its very nature, does not say anything, but the people to whom this phrase relates still expect specific things and concrete answers. Today's presentation by the candidate is full of many general phrases, but it lacks content... the specific offer. And that is what I expect from the Minister - much more specific visions, offer, and I think it is enough to talk to general phrases, to tell you that everything will be good in municipalities - let us build new, modern, larger, stronger municipalities. These are general phrases. The specific cases are that the municipalities have 90 million minus next year. The particular case is that Members have already signed up to a proposal to increase five million... grant grants to municipalities in principle so that they can pay salaries to social workers and educators. These municipalities - a large part - will be in Latgale, where help is really needed, and aid is needed over a longer period than the half-year currently proposed, because with these five million will only be sufficient for half a year. Here the municipalities are in a situation when... Big, little, no difference... Also for those who remained borderless during the reform, the next year's budget is very, very painful and will need help. And these are the specific things where, I think, in the coming years of the Minister, it will not be possible to say that you will have big, cool municipalities and there will still be financial equalisation. I think, in such a professional environment, people can remain angry and even very angry about such expressions, because it simply does not correspond to normal reality and real politics. And the fact that equalisation of municipal finances could save something does not correspond to the reality, because it has long been not playing a significant role in the self-sufficiency of municipal finances. That's why I would ask you to be such, my colleagues... It would be the new minister who would call for greater responsibility in his statements and to speak more specifically, as the public in particular is waiting for you in the future, especially in the areas covered... If we are talking about the environment, the climate-neutral area, the deposit system - all these areas are waiting for very specific offers from the Minister. If we are talking about waste, we know clearly that the introduction of a deposit system is the smallest problem in the area of waste. There are much larger issues that the Minister will have to deal with from today, from the first day, and take action on the ground. The deposit system is the smallest. It will not help to make Latvia... bring them closer to the objectives that the State of Latvia has taken on. On climate neutrality: if we talk only about electric cars, I think we will not be far too far. These things have to be talked about, but if we really want achievements, then these are completely different things that should be talked about. I would also call on the Minister to be more self-critical, because of course all the time to say that everything is good and everything is beautiful with administrative territorial reform - on your part perhaps this is the right approach, but I would like to call on you to be self-critical precisely because not only the Saeima opposition, not only more than 10 municipalities have turned to the Constitutional Court... Anyone who appeals to the Constitutional Court has their own arguments, and their arguments must not be disdained. That is the case, and the Constitutional Court is the one that decides the result. In this case, to say that the arguments of the municipalities are not valid, it would be out of place, because the President of Latvia, when announcing the Law on Administrative Areas and settlements, also devoted very great criticism to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the leaders of the reform. I think that we should listen to it and take it into account in order to improve our work in the future. So, colleagues, I also call on the next minister to listen more and, as a minister, to start speaking a certain language and to stop speaking in general phrases, because at this time, it is during the Covid-19 period that the government has shown that speaking in general phrases, chaotic decision making is precisely why a very large part of society is losing its confidence in the government. I would like to see that we have a minister who really speaks a specific language and offers a solution to the problems in substance. At the moment, if we look at environmental issues, if I am told that environmental issues can be resolved with the introduction of a deposit system, forgive me, and with electric cars, then I think this is a very narrow view. If I am told that, at a time when more than half of Latvia's municipalities are challenging and are judged by the nature of how to borrow money in order to pay teachers and social workers salaries by giving up any development projects, and this is a large or small municipality, I think it is not normal. There these solutions are also outside... or offer some solutions with fund investments or reconstruction fund investments... This is a very narrow thinking and a lack of understanding of how public administration has been built and what role municipalities play in it at all. Therefore, colleagues, we in our group, the Union of Greens/Farmers, are not going to support the candidate minister today. But I want to say that we are focused on cooperation in the development of local government laws, on many local government issues and are ready for cooperation. It may be... I very much hope that our views will change over time when developing this cooperation. Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U16	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U17	Good morning, dear colleagues! I was truly surprised by Mr Kazinovsky's somewhat supportive view of the evaluation of Mr Plesh's work so far. If I heard it correctly, then I remember that Mr Kazinovsky was one of the Members who desperately fought to improve administrative territorial reform and, in fact, as we remember, lost his place in the political group for the sake of confidence, fighting for his own governors. That is why I really find it difficult to understand what we have heard from Mr Kariņš today, this high-value, because it is not a secret that the head of the relevant commission is responsible for preparing and directing the bill when it comes to the Saeima. A special Administrative Territorial Reform Commission was specifically set up for the reform, led by Mr Ples and had all the powers, all the possibilities, because it became a full Saeima Commission with all the resources. So Mr Plesh had every opportunity to complete this reform and to put it in a way that would not be followed by the accusations of the President of Latvia. What the President of Latvia said when announcing this reform, in my opinion, is really remarkable. The President of Latvia pointed out that he was concerned that the debate on administrative territorial reform had the least been spoken about and thought about the common interests of the whole country in the long term and the potential benefits of society as a whole and of every citizen. The President also pointed out that, in fact, all the discussions that had taken place in the course of the reform and "the preparatory phase has been under-thought, in favour of the swift progress of the bill, sacrificed a thorough analysis, proper design and an equivalent dialogue with the public, arguing and convincing of the need for reform. Only the formal respect of the principles of dialogue between local communities, local authorities and the state, enshrined in our democratic state machine, as well as the replacement of balanced arguments and arguments with promises of a better future, have given rise to "a lack of understanding and insult to many local communities and citizens of our country. The capacity of draft lawmakers and promoters to politically drive reform has been expressed by the same resistance and emotional determination to resist it at all costs. These contradictions have therefore become very acute in the run-up to the reform process". The President said that he “can only join the authoritative finding of the Constitutional Court” in a recent ruling on the Ikšķile population survey that “in these discussions from all the parties involved he lacked good faith, mutual respect and true respect for the principles of our democratic state system.” These accusations, honourable colleagues, are addressed not only to Mr Puce, but to a greater extent to the head of the parliamentary committee, because only him, as we have heard, has this power to direct the draft law to such a position and attract such experts, and to listen to such opinions, so that, together, by combining all these lines of opinion, the draft law of the highest quality can be as good as possible. However, what we see is indeed, as Mr Valaiņš pointed out, several complaints in the Constitutional Court, and we will probably very soon also hear very many different conclusions about how this draft law was drafted, as well as Mr Levit said, “swerk through”. What I would like to point out is... I have to say in principle - I express my condolences to the new candidate for the post of minister because... Perhaps contrary to some other circumstances, in this case he is such a compromise, unfortunately, and could be the subject of such a trade, a bear Minister, because after... We know that after the election of the Minister to the Saeima, which we see now is likely to happen, because an agreement has already been reached, ministers will meet in the Cabinet to complete their work and punish the Latvian people for not being able to act in time to protect us from large numbers and to protect our medical staff from overload. That is, unfortunately, my fellow Members, this gift that we expect will be gloomy. I would also like to point out that, contrary to the fact that I express my condolences to the new... So for the candidate, I can really appreciate the fact that he has been chosen very well, because, as we know, he is doing all the tasks very well. We've just heard about running the reform, which was one of the ministers... It's in interest. And Minister Puce very, very well done this reform through Mr Ples. So Mr Plesh carries out all the tasks assigned to him in good faith, and Mr Plesh will continue to carry out all the tasks assigned to him in good faith, because we also saw this from a single episode in which Mr Plesh demonstrated his orator's abilities in one sitting of the Saeima - when we were actually working on the draft laws that were intended to seize power in the Riga City Council. These were two draft laws on elections and municipalities. And then there was one quiver that, to say, one coalition group refused to vote, thus trying to block this issue, also realising that what is happening in Parliament is nothing about the rule of law. At one point, however, we saw that when Mr Pavlut came to his knees before Mr. Pucen and prayed that Mr. Pucen should think about it, then he had to take time. And in order to drag the time, Mr. Pleis heroically climbed the pub and said absolutely any incoherent things. But these incomparable things remain on the parliamentary vernacular, and they are recorded, and they will remain as long as our archives can, now, preserve it. Mr Pleska said that, when it comes to the elections, it is very useless to organise re-elections in the short term, for example, because logically it places a relatively high burden on public and municipal budgets. Well, maybe that is understandable, but then it is really very interesting for the future minister: "... and I think that it is absolutely not in the interests of citizens to go to the elections and to express their views often." That, honourable colleagues, is the opinion of the future Minister; it is his words, which have been recorded on the parliamentary verbatim record. Hence, the future minister does not believe that citizens should often express their views. Moreover, he believes that this is not in the interests of the citizens. What kind of minister will you vote on today? I, my fellow Members, cannot in any way support the candidacy of this man, not because it is an opposition or a position, because I voted in favour of the candidacy of the Minister for Economic Affairs in the first communal wave - Mr Witenberg, I supported you - but Mr Plesa, unfortunately, I cannot support it because of the circumstances that I have pointed out earlier. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U18	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U19	Hello, Latvian society! Hello, my fellow Members of the Saeima! Hello, Inara Mūrniece! And, Hello, Arthur Tom Plesh! At the same time, when you enter politics, you, Arthur Tom Plēš, have said in public media that your political ideal, example and example to pursue is the politician Juris Pūce. These are your words. In this respect, before I voted and take my decision to support your candidacy or not, I would like to ask you a couple of questions and divide these questions into three parts - about the government, about Juris Pucis and about you personally. For the governments, the first question is the following for me. So you, as a candidate minister, think that you will have to decide today on restrictions for Latvian society... Do you think that the government's communication and decisions to date have been logical, properly communicated and in line with the best interests of society? And how do you think that what decision should the government take today with regard to emergency situations? You are likely to attend this sitting. This is very important. And this is essential for society as a whole. The second part of the questions. Given that you named Juris Puce as your example, and knowing that Juris Puce is very close to Edgars Jaunupe, then I have a question for you: will you keep the people of Edgars Jaunupe and Juris Puce, who have been approved in the VARAM system during this time in various positions, positions of head of different institutions and so on? That's one thing. The other thing in the same context is - are you denying that you, contrary to what Mara Michelerevsky said, either Edgars Jaunups or Juris Pūce have provided the money for the donations that you have paid? Because Maris Mičerevski said that in fact, all members of the party have had a similar situation, so you too. And if you deny, have you turned to the courts or other law enforcement bodies respectively to prove the opposite, that this has not been the case and that it does not happen, especially in view of your last donation of two thousand euros, which is a very interesting donation? And the last block of my questions, to which I would like to hear your answer, Arthur Tom Plš, is the following. At the time when Juris Pūce was forced to resign from the position of Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development and had not yet decided to direct you to the position of Minister, but there were already rumours that this could happen, you had a personal meeting with Juris Pūci Bauska in a dark evening on a cross-border basis. The inhabitants of Bauska saw it. I would like you to tell the public in Latvia what you discussed, to put it more correctly, what trip bag Juris Pūce gave you, which is your example and an example, as you say in the media. Discover the content of these meetings, secret meetings! At the end of the... very briefly... For the lifting bag - Artur Tom Plēš, if your example and example in politics is Juris Pūce, as you say in the media, I hope there is also a car for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U20	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U21	Dear colleagues, Well, I understand that I don't fully understand Julia Stepanenko's opinion. I would like to say: when it comes to public administration and local government issues, also in reform matters, I have long since developed - for more than 20 years. For me, these conclusions and proposals are also summarised, you know, in the books. And the fact that I have criticised this draft law - I will continue to do so, because there are indeed many imperfections and misunderstandings there. But in a situation where a new minister is being sought and elected, I see this as a new opportunity, first of all, to put these issues in order more logically, second, to my own... I can do more fully because I can rely on my work in municipalities. Someone knows or doesn't know, but I've created a lot of local government leaders in the Prizes. And there have been different types of combinations. I have always sought a compromise and have also found a wide range of political forces, and it has nevertheless produced results for development. It is much easier and more productive to work if you have a common denominator. By the way, this common denominator between political parties, in my opinion, is missing in the Saeima right now. And it's not enough in the past. It's about Mr. Plesh's particular candidacy. Yes, I know that he has worked in the interests of his party's position in shaping this policy, but I look at this candidate as a new opportunity, because his position as minister also means new opportunities. He will no longer, in my view, be in some sort of escort or shadow, he will be the first and only responsible for these matters. This also means a new situation for discussion. And there I also see, let us say, the realisation of my proposals. By the way, for leaving the fraction. Yes, at that point, I was not supported by a group in the UK, but I recently read in social networks John Bordan's opinion on regional reform - well, practically my thoughts! That means that the process is going on... Later, but that's what's happening. I hope that this understanding of the regions, the development of the country and the development of the municipalities in general will also be much better for the Minister than for the previous Minister... the new Minister. Therefore, I also support and wish, because there is no alternative if we do not wish today, it is clear that there will be a ministry again without a minister, which in my view is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U22	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U23	Yes, thank you for your explanation, Mr Kazinovsky. I'm still... I can only hear, through all your words, that this minister is such a compromise figure. Well, I actually... What we also heard from Mr Kariņš today is that Mr Pabrika has now worked so hard to replace the Minister by receiving a 50 per cent premium for the replacement of the Minister, I do not think it is too serious to push such a candidate, especially in the light of what Mr Gobzem has just mentioned to us. It is very dangerous to direct a minister, a minister of people whose political ideal is, yes, Mr Puce, who openly lied in the public media, so he was forced to resign and something very diplomatically silenced by Mr Kariņš. But I want to reassure all those present - there will probably be no problems with ethics, no problems with reputation for ministers. I'm going to make sure that Mr. Pleis doesn't have to ask for this pass through the friends of the council either. We're going to have a bill today, which will foresee... One amendment will provide for a proposal, however, to incite their money in the state budget and pay to ministers and their spouses (or how they call them their partners there) respectively pass charges in parking places at any place according to the spent monthly. So now, Mr Gobzem, perhaps there is hope that Mr Ples, still following his ideal path, will not fall into these traps and will not make the government more ashamed than we are seeing at the moment. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U24	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U25	Dear Society! You heard my previous speech. It was relatively short and with very specific questions from three blocks. I asked the potential minister how he will act at the government sitting today. I see that Arthur Tom Pelles has not come up in the debate, has not answered this very simple question, although it is important and essential for the whole of society, in my opinion. On the day when Latvia's history is likely to make the most serious decision. Arthur Tom Pelles has not assessed the government's work so far in the context of the crisis and the communication so far. So it's one. He did not answer an elementary question about whether Juris Pūce and Edgars Jaunupas will be preserved in their posts in VARM system. Yes or no? No answer was given to a donation, which was also an elementary question. ‘ Yes, Edgar Jaunupe gave me the money!” “No, I didn’t, I’m going to go to court (or I’ve turned to court) against Maris Michelevski.” An elemental question, right? And an elemental question is also about what was discussed in the dark corner of the street in Bauska by two officials - Juris Puce and Arthur Tom Plesa. Society has the right to know what was in the content of such a secret meeting. An elementary question too. Arthur Tom Pelles has not entered into the debate, and this leads me to think that Arthur Tom Pelles has no visions first of all about what the government should decide today. In this context, it is absolutely clear that Arthur Tom Plus is obviously only the performer - what he will be told he will do. It also coincides with all these Pouce visits and everything else. Because if a person had a vision, he would climb into a platform and tell about his vision, including an emergency, not only that we have a crisis and a similar situation, but that we would tell the government what concrete decisions should be made, what will his initiative on these issues, how will he deal with the administration of the ministry: whether he will change people, not change people, whether he will work with young people or not work with them... and in that spirit. I'm not talking about parking. There we are going to change today in Parliament, and there will be a parking place, just like the Pucem had. There only remains to vote in favour, and Puce’s successor will also be able to use it free of charge, whether for himself or for his/her spouse or for his/her spouse. So there's no problem there. But the problems are these elementary issues. And it makes me think that Arthur Tom Pelles will be a prime minister in a government that should actually go on, on which the people laugh, on which the people laugh, on which the people laugh - on all the statements that are absolutely absurd and illogical, and on the decisions that they will take today to actually make a real black Friday tomorrow, when people fall into shops and the like. That is why, precisely for this reason, because Arthur Tom Pelles did not answer these questions, I will vote 'no'. If he had answered those questions, I would have thought. I call on the public to take this into account. If Arthur Tom Pelles is not able to answer such elementary things, then I am deeply convinced that there will be no good thing there. And you will experience this in the very near future, that Arthur Tom Plesh will be the performer of Juris Puce's tasks without his own personal point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U26	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U27	Good afternoon, everybody! I hope you can hear me. I applied for a debate because I wanted to give Mr Plesa the opportunity to answer these specific questions. To give him the opportunity to apply for a debate and to respond, otherwise what we are seeing is being offered to a minister who has already drawn the shadow of political manipulation and corruption right away (which he has not yet been elected). It would really be very important for the Minister to come... the next Minister would come, explain and answer these questions. What else I would like to draw attention to is the whole process, as we are currently doing. This ministerial process... That is, the Constitution sets out very clearly the principle that the Cabinet of Ministers is made up of a Prime Minister from the ministers he called for, but the first sentence, which was given to us by the Prime Minister here in the Saeima, was that this Minister is not driven by him, but this Minister is led by his cooperation coalition partners... in essence... And then for a long time it was right that, well, this minister isn't even so bad, actually he's even good... Well, somewhere, we could understand the Prime Minister's joy that it could also have been worse knowing the situation in the coalition and inviting us to support - a feeling like this - this violation of the Constitution that he himself was forced to do. I would have very much liked to hear from Mr Kariņš - if such a minister is already being driven on us, what do you want from this minister as Prime Minister? What tasks do you plant? Mr. Karins, come on, finally become Prime Minister. Leave the task to your ministers! If you can't say anything about what you want from the Minister, if you only push him because you've been told that he needs to be led, then who are you Prime Minister? What the hell do you even need a minister, to whom you don't give tasks?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It is better to keep working, as you have worked, and there will be less jeeps. So here I would very much like Mr Kariņš to come to the debate and tell him how he sees the primary tasks that he will ask of this minister. Go on. If we are talking about the particular minister... co-administration with I have listened to your speech, I have also listened to your public statements. You claim that the regional reform that has been carried out will be the key that will enable the regions of Latvia to flourish. I have the feeling that you do not fully understand what it means to implement the reform, because if you believe that what you have done is a regional reform, then I really have reason to challenge your competence. In essence, everything you have done is you have simply redesigned the boundaries. Reforms as such have not been. The reform, if it were a reform, with the redrawing of borders, so that we really do make these municipalities wider, we want them to have more capacity, so there should have been a change in their model of functionality - functions, powers. If we change the functions and powers, then the funding model for these municipalities should also be changed accordingly so that they can actually operate and fulfil the tasks that you expect to be fulfilled, because, in this case, it is not only the problem that we have had too few and fragmented regions, but also the way in which they are financed. The financing model is one of the reasons why we will not develop anything in the regions. And the most successful municipalities are those that simply parasite at the expense of neighbouring municipalities - the municipalities around Riga. And not because they manage something very effectively and successfully, but simply because there is a municipality next to it, where something is really happening, they benefit. It should be very serious to think about the financing model, so that municipal funding is also directly linked to the extent to which they take care of their development, namely that one possibility could be that personal income tax is reallocated not only where the citizen is sleeping but also where he is working, where he creates this added value. This would provide an incentive and also an additional opportunity for municipalities to debate with citizens in their territory to justify why they need it or another project, that it will not only create additional emissions or additional machines for us to pass, but it will generate additional revenue for our municipality. A municipality that will then, let us say, better finance its teachers, social care or medical care by repairing someone... or to build a new kindergarten due to the development of production here. As it has been created at the moment, the municipality has no benefit over much of it at all. It receives minimal benefit - only from real estate tax if any real property is built here. Go on. You mentioned - and I was really confused - that in the regions your priority is to develop digitalisation and green technologies. It really felt like... Have you ever been to the regions of Latvia, or do you know what is on their agenda, which is currently being fought by local authorities? After the reallocation of the budget that you have adopted at the moment, its functions, the ratio of funding between the state and local authorities to many local governments, as colleagues have rightly mentioned before in the debate, it is a question of how to fulfil its core functions in general, namely social care, teachers, aid to citizens, not to mention the high shelves - digital and green technologies. That also made me anxious. You very much like to call this story about green technologies, that now, we will develop European money, and that is a huge opportunity for Latvia. You know, I've all these texts about how we... that it will immediately be a great opportunity, I have heard many years ago - when the OIC phase was being created. Then it was the politicians who came with the same slogans... about the same politicians who are coming and telling us these same stories about OIC, about this great opportunity. Then I have a question, Mr Pleis: are you at all adequately able to assess the potential of developing these competitive green technologies at European level in our regions, to compete with other European countries? Because if we are talking about this technology market, it is a global market, we need to be globally competitive if we want to do something. And now you are trying to tell us that we will join this big game and be successful players compared to other European countries that have developed these green technologies for decades. On the other hand, we've done almost nothing here; on the contrary, we've wasted our science, our capacity for innovation, and in these technologies at all, we have only hand-held companies that can actually do something. Most of them are quite the opposite. We will not be able to compete; we will become in this party table, on which you call all, on the slaughter sow at whose expense these celebrations will be made, as was done with the OIC. And that is what I would call Mr. Karin's attention. Don't let it happen to you that for the second time you become a crossman to one of the world's aphories. For the first time as a crossfather, you became OIC, because right behind your back with your signature, the foundations for this OIC field were prepared. You signed it as an economic minister, now you as Prime Minister... The next phase is pushed behind your back again... with a layer larger - not just the OIK sphere, this will be already in the OIK sphere square, if it goes in this way, with the fairy tales that we are told here about how everything will just be great in Latvia, we need to participate in this climate neutral plan, and we're just here... We're gonna make money over our heads, we're gonna make it here. Everything will be the opposite. We are currently being prepared in this story as a sow at the expense of which this show will be held. I would ask you to follow this, because it is hard for me to imagine that you are so naive and alienated from reality that you do not understand it. Therefore, Mr. Plies, I call on you to have the courage, and also, Mr. Karins, to have the courage, to show you, to give the least... Even the least hope for the people of Latvia, the Saeima, that you are able to be Prime Minister, press the button, apply for a debate and tell us what you expect from this minister as Prime Minister and what you will ask him to do, and what is what you want him to be a respected member of your team. Mr Ples, please also apply to the debate and shout this compromising shadow that has drawn up on you at the moment. Otherwise, you are already seriously discredited as a person who would not have the right to take up such a post at all, before you begin to perform your Minister's duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U28	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U29	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Two observations from the beginning of this sitting. The first one is very gloomy. It seems to me that it is very difficult to manage a country in a crisis situation if you cannot enter the network to participate in the remote sitting of the Saeima. This shows that, unfortunately, the Prime Minister should start with the introduction of internal procedures in the Cabinet. The second observation is a salt softer and salt softer. I understand that this decision has been decided, after a long debate in coalition terrorism, and therefore regardless of the vote, I hope that Mr Plesh will be approved as a minister. Given that any minister - he likes it or does not like it, he loves it or does not love it - has to work with the Saeima, with all the parliamentary groups, with the position and the opposition, I would like to vote regardless of what the vote will be - who will not vote, who will support, who will not support - but to make three elections to the future minister. The first is about specificity. It has already been mentioned today that we should, however, speak specifically, not in general terms. Well, for example, when it comes to saying that, here, the investment of administrative territorial reform in the new municipalities will fall as from heaven. To be honest, there is nothing behind it except the assumption - neither calculations, forecasts, nor experts' views, and so on, and so on. Second. We have to look at the problems, Minister... Minister, the future Minister, with a bolder view... That's an opportunity. Well, let us say, when are you talking about reform - where is the new law on municipalities that would define new functions for new municipalities? Where is the new model, how will budget alignment be created? Where are the other laws related to this reform? Because you can't just look at the map, regardless of all the types of problem complex and problem solutions. And the third. You mentioned that you are a team player. Your status will now change - you are not just a team player, you are a team manager. Whether it's a ministry, or it's a Cabinet of Ministers, here you're already not a team member, you're a team leader. The team manager must not only have a clear mind, but also a strong spine - which I also recommend to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U30	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision on "On Expression of Trust by the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arturs Tom Pleš"! Please, let's vote! For - 61, for - 15, for - 1. Decision adopted. Congratulations to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Arturs Toms Plēš. We would like to work for the benefit of Latvia and its people. (Applause) Thank you. Let's keep sitting. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. Time for notifications. So, on December 17, this year, we will start our second remote emergency session at 11: 00 a.m. The name Mārtiņš Bondars for the announcement apparently... A sitting break... The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U31	Colleagues, 10.35 p.m. Budget and financial (tax) commission meeting. A couple of appropriations this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-17-PT13-2170-U32	Thank you. So the registration of Members. Registration is over. I therefore closed my first remote emergency sitting on 17 December this year. Second meeting - at 11 a.m.
