ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U1	Dear colleagues, We started October 8, the second extraordinary sitting, which takes place at a distance. Linda Liepiņa, a Member, wishes to speak about the procedure. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U2	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, Now this is once again a regular sitting, a new sitting, which, I also believe, does not take place in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Constitution. Just in the email... One e-mail came to talk to... meet... candidate for the new... the position of the President of the Constitutional Court. There will now be a subject to talk about - whether potential candidates believe that this is a legal process that is going on here - it is the meeting of the Saeima or not. And would also call on the other candidates who are candidates... All kinds of conversations have been heard... think of how lawful this process is and why the current President of the Constitutional Court does nothing on this issue to put an end to this illegal form. Well, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U3	Thank you. On the agenda - draft decision “On consent to prosecution against 13. Member of the Saeima Aldi Adamovich.’ On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U4	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 17 and Article 179, first paragraph, point 2, of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima, at its meeting on 7 October, examined an application from the Prosecutor General’s Office for its consent to the opening of criminal proceedings against 13. Members of the Saeima Aldi Adamoviča charged with fraud pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 177 of the Criminal Law on fraud, the second paragraph of Article 318 on misuse of the status of service and the second paragraph of Article 327 on counterfeiting of service. After hearing the representative of the Prosecutor's Office, as well as 13. Members of the Saeima Aldi Adamovič, members of the Commission supported the draft decision prepared by the Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission “On consent to prosecution against 13. Member of the Saeima Aldi Adamovich.’ On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U5	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U6	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I would like to say that in the autumn of 2019 I submitted to the Saeima a fuel check for 60 euros and 3 cents, which... has not been used for service purposes. And in February 2020, I used a second family car that was not registered at the Saeima Registry, including for work. In this case, I have spent 23 euros and 75 cents. In every case, this action has not been by intent or purpose, and I have voluntarily repaid these two amounts to the state budget. I have also explained this in the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption. In fact, I live in Latgale, Preili, about 210 kilometres from Riga, so I am declared there. Every week I arrive at the Saeima and work for three or four days. And I want to say that neither me nor my family in Riga owns a residential area, so the apartment is rented. The question of the rented apartment... 2019 and 2020... seven months... I do not share KNAB's view of using illegal compensation, because I have stayed in the rented apartment as well as in the apartment... the second apartment rented by my son at my own expense. The rules on compensation for rent of an apartment do not specify how often or how long I should stay in the apartment. Many colleagues can assure me that I have stayed in working days working in the Saeima, so... As a result, I also spend several nights a week in Riga instead of going to Preili. I am ready to cooperate and provide explanations to the Prosecutor General's Office and, if necessary, defend my opinion in court. I am of the opinion that I have not abused the state funds intended to compensate Members of the Saeima who live outside Riga. Colleagues! I will myself vote in favour of extradition and I call on you to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U7	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U8	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! And Mr. Adamovich! Well, thank you, Mr Adamovich, for what you said. I will not hide: I was very surprised by this statement I heard a few days ago, this statement about your extradition. You think you're a good person, at least I feel that way. I have not gone into your political path and, of course, I can like it, it may not - purely subjectively - the party whose interests you represent at the moment in the Saeima, but that is every one... as says, it is every individual decision - what to be with or not to be with. What I want to leave with this speech in the book of time is that I think this is another pretty great dishonesty, although the letter of the law is... Well, it's probably true that you have to be extradited for prosecution. But where is that dishonesty, I think? The Saeima is sitting in more terrible people than you, Mr Adamovich, with the same mandate as you. I won't mention, I won't call anyone a loud name today, it's not the right time and it's not the right day. I wish you, Mr Adamovich, endurance passes through this process. I will also vote in favour of you being extradited, because I believe it is necessary to make a fair decision - whether it will be a court or another institution... It may well be that this thing will disappear like many others who may not have to disappear. So I will vote, Mr Adamovich, for your extradition. I think this is not really fair... such unwritten laws. You understand me. And I think I understand those people who... which should be spent, which should have been spent a long time ago, and which should have been placing a Member's mandate for a long time, and that is certainly not you, Mr Adamovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U9	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U10	Hello, colleagues! A little bit of a lawyer spoke to me, despite the fact that I am in general against the compensation paid and granted to Members. And it is clear that there are also Members among us who are very likely to use it for some selfish purposes. But here's one another... in fact, a number of other problems. The first problem. The big problem where we see all these votes... they are formal votes for extradition. In principle, such a procedure... then we must adopt a law and give up the Institute of Extradition as such. For what is the point of such an institution, if we always, in all cases, vote - "issue"? The immunity of a Member does not actually work in Latvia, because it is clearly known that after any process - justified or unjustified - the Member will be issued. The right order would be for crimes related to... For example, if there is a clear crime in relation to... Let us say, when it comes to the danger of human life or of murder and other crimes of this kind. I think there is no doubt there. But with regard to the contentious issues, this measure, in my view, is absolutely... is not legally logical. That is why, first and foremost, we need to review the issue of the issuing institution of Members as such. It doesn't exist right now... So that's... it must obviously be excluded from the law, so that we do not have to proceed with these votes. The second thing. I think it is necessary to give up all Members' compensation for telephones, for living, for fuel and for everything else, so that there is no Member for Butane: EUR 40 (at his EUR three thousand salary!) compensation of the bus. And that's the spirit. Because there are different problems. And this needs to be dealt with very easily. Unpopularly, but rightly: Members should simply set a correspondingly higher remuneration. It is very likely that there should be a smaller number of Members; we do not need 100 Members, we could do it with a very smaller number of Members, but with more pay. Then a more qualitative composition of the Saeima would be formed and there would be no compensation. Then we should not look at such a question as we are dealing with today. That's the second thing. The third thing. Clearly, it doesn't matter whether Mr Adamovich is a good or a bad man. A good man, it's not yet a profession. He votes in and votes in a party against the interests of the people, but that is certainly not the reason to vote in favour... I do not want to defend Mr Adamovich, but at the same time I would like to say that the situation is sufficiently controversial from a legal point of view. First of all, contentious from a legal point of view! And it is clear that it is likely that when Mr Adamovich is released, he will also be sentenced. But what we should do, however, is that we should not, in all votes, always vote 'for' for extradition, but discuss a potential crime... the structure of the insult and to discuss whether or not it is justified, as the initiation of criminal proceedings may also be used for abusive purposes to remove a Member from the track. Irrespective of heading or opposition. This is the main essence of the issuing institution - how to protect the Member if an instrument of this type is being used against him to deliberately remove a Member from the track. I do not know whether this is the case, but it would be much more important to decide whether or not to discuss whether or not there was a violation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U11	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U12	Good morning, dear colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this person is from Latgale. And what should he do to do his work fully in the Saeima? All right, Mr. Adamovich has grown-up children, but if he had little children, he would have to completely change his way of life... not only the way of life, but also the place of residence, to find kindergartens, to find schools, to change their entire life. If there's a second half, she's got to find a job. I thought so... Like here... As Aldis Gobzem said... Today we only carry out formalities and... We automatically issue all Members. I think we really need to show today that this is not a formality; that we will not end up in extremes... and we will vote one after the other by publishing... without looking at the essence and what is happening in the Saeima at all. I think this case... we could solve it in our own inner... The Saeima in the administration. Man has already said he's repaid. And how he lived there, whether the child lived or he lived, it's not our business. We cannot doubt that he is from Preiles. I understand. If it were like the case we had in previous years, that there was some Member in a petrol tractor... But we do not doubt that he is from Latgale and that this compensation is due to him. Maybe let us give some little freedom so that a person can decide his own economic affairs - how he will spend, how it is easier for him to organise his daily life and make use of this compensation! I call on us today to vote against extradition... Alda Adamovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U13	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U14	Yeah... I would like to add to what Karina Sprude said. I myself did not vote in the e-Parliament because I consider this platform to be unconstitutional, but other Members who vote would be invited to vote 'no'. You know my attitude towards Unity. I have criticised the UNIFORM very much, but I would now call for a 'no' vote, precisely because a person can have different living situations. We don't know. For example, there may be such an elementary thing that, I don’t know, new love arises. Now he stays there with the new love... or something else. It's not a crime. There is no doubt here that there is no lie; that man actually lives in Latgale. And the fact that he organises his life in the way he organises it - well, it's legally a very controversial issue. A very, very controversial question! Perhaps there is an infringement there, probably not there. But I think we should, however, distinguish between matters that are very complex, legally... and where are, for example, murder, rape, robbery... and in that spirit. However, two different cases should be distinguished. Otherwise, this issue of parliamentary immunity and extradition and non-refoulement is of a formal nature - a completely pointless norm, absolutely pointless time is spent speaking about it. Then change the law, and do not vote in any case. Then Members have no immunity at all, and all because its immunity is fiction at the moment. I call for the 'no' vote, despite the fact that Mr Adamovich is in Unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U15	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U16	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr. Adamovich! Colleagues! Well, this will be an excellent example of the fact that life can be like American hills at all. I just changed my mind. I can also justify why - I simply listened to my colleagues - both Aldi and Karin. There's something... Something magical just happened here! I got like that, let's say it's like that. I have been for extradition so far, because obviously those people who have been involved, such as Artuss Kaimiņš, Atis Zakaitistovs, Juris Juris Jušas, would be such people in my opinion. That's why I too... That's why I probably also... thinking about these three gentlemen... I think maybe they could be extradited... Whereas a vote should be taken in favour, but... Well, Mr. Adamovich, I wouldn't want to put one of those characters in the same box. Consequently, I also call on Members to vote 'no'. Yeah, because... Well, exactly... Against... Well, three times, the same thing was brought up against me, not from anything, from just some scene that Member Linda Liepiņa doesn't know what she's talking about... Sometimes it can be. But at that time, I very clearly understood that KNAB can propose, cancel... propose, cancel... propose, cancel... I will therefore really call on Members to vote 'no'. And, Mr Adamovich, you must be yourself too, I think... Well, that's just my friendly suggestion... You can also vote against yourself. You know what's good, what's bad. And Karin's right, too... about what she said. You live quite far and, while there are no Members, so that you can afford to move all your family to the city where you work, why not use the compensation? Thank you for your attention. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2120-U17	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? ( Pause) Apparently, on behalf of the Commission, Mrs Kursītes-Pakules does not want to add anything. Colleagues, let's vote. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the consent to criminal prosecution against 13. Members of the Saeima Aldi Adamovich”! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - 4, for - 1. Decision adopted. Registration of Members' presence. It's been a success. Dear colleagues, We'll continue work in 15 minutes, which means at 10.05. I closed my second extraordinary session on October 8.
