ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take up seats in Saeima's meeting room so that we can continue working on the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations”. So, on the agenda, the 112th proposal tabled by Member Viktors Valainis. That's the debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U2	Good morning, colleagues! Let us continue to look at Jelgava. The Minister was yesterday... There is no more today. The Minister mentioned yesterday that they had examined the surrounding region in the government... The specic nature of the surrounding regions showed that... The government has assessed and provided an evaluation that however, Daugavpils, Rezekne and Liepaja regions... However, remain separate. If we look at the figures, then in this case, if Jelgava were to be left separately, Jelgava Municipality is already much stronger in terms of figures and economics - much stronger! - and are able to carry out, on its own, all the functions assigned to it. No analysis of the functions that the municipality of Jelgava or the city of Jelgava could perform was provided.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U3	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U4	Dear Saeima! I will try to say what I think many have been thinking in this Chamber for several days. I really understand the MoEPRD Minister's desire to implement the reform, I understand the opposition's desire to bring the debate to the maximum length, turning it into a farce, self-conceived from day to day (Dep. V. Valainis: “ Oi, Oi, Oi! What are you doing?” ) by making it the longest sitting of the Saeima in the history of Latvia, when a third of the proposals have been discussed within five days. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant: “On the proposal!” ) In other circumstances, the Saeima could continue to bathe a long day from day to day, but in my opinion, Latvia cannot afford it that the Saeima's work has been paralyzed for another two weeks, the Saeima's committees are sitting only (Dep. U. Plant: “Tell me about the proposal!” )...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U5	Mr Dombrava, please speak on the proposal. ( Independence: “On the proposal! We are talking about Jelgava!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U6	At this point in time, I think that the Saeima must act decisively enough... accordingly... we can continue discussions on what is big and small. But now there is a pandemic in the world. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Bergmann and the deposit. U. Plant intermediates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U7	Mr Dombrava, please talk about 112. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U8	In these circumstances, I think the Saeima should decide either... either that all the proposals are being examined today in order to return to the normal work of the Saeima and be able to take the decisions that are urgently needed, or... The second option is...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U9	Mr Dombrava, please speak on proposal 112. ( Interface: “You need to close the microphone out! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U10	Or another option that we are coming back (Minimum: “Why can a representative of the National Alliance talk about what he wants?” )... that we are returning this draft law to the Commission. “ Then everyone will be able to speak... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U11	Mr Dombrava, please speak on proposal 112, I very much invite you to speak on the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U12	I'm sorry, but I really think it's linked because we've debated...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U13	Mr Dombrava, procedural matters can be discussed from the point of view by means of a microphone. These are the procedural issues that you are talking about at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U14	We have allowed the Saeima to talk at its sitting about proposals that have not been supported by the Commission, which we have already voted on.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U15	It is possible to talk about it on the Order Roll... Thank you, Mr Dombrava, thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U16	Good morning, colleagues! Under similar circumstances, I would have had my microphone switched off for a long time. You already understand that if. But listening to Mr Dombrava's speech, it is quite clear that Jelgava is not a big city because of a pandemic in the world. That is also absolutely clear now. And since we're all going to die... Since we are all going to die now, I have a call on this House - perhaps before this great event in our lives, we do at least one job for the people. At least once, we adopt a law that is logical in the interests of the people. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Ms Roosa: “On the proposal!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U17	Please speak on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U18	And logically it is to accept (Interior call.) ... And it is logical to adopt the law, saying that Jelgava is the great city. It's logical, it's more logical than saying that...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U19	Thank you. The debate is over. Name to Member Armand Kraus. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “There will be another chance, Aldi!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U20	Yeah. Good morning, colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Thus, the proposal is about whether Jelgava is of the importance to the republic (Dep. J. President: ‘The proposal is not put to the vote!’ )... So the big city, as we have decided. But I would like to point out, however, that when we are discussing Jelgava, and probably in the future, about other cities, we will get to the criteria, but in this case, Jelgava, no criteria have been taken into account. Mr Dombrava, who was very lobbying for the creation of the Saulkrasti region, was just speaking. (Applause) How many people will there be in Saulkrasti municipality - you know? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Interdependence of Reizniece–Ozola.) About 10,000. In Jelgava... How many new areas are planned with the city? It'll be close to 100,000. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Salanist: “88!” ) It is close to 100, along with both regions. And so ( Dep. S. Riekstins: “ZZS all up round!” )... What does that mean? What does that mean? This means that the criteria for Jelgava do not have to be taken into account at all. These are then complete, absolutely political decisions. Therefore, although this proposal cannot be voted on, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is very important for us to get from the coalition... Minister is not, but, therefore, of those who drive the reform, an explanation - how can it be that there is a region where there are 10 000, and one where there are close to 100 thousand, without which criteria? And why is it important, why is it also important to talk to everyone here? Because there is a very great probability that the counties, residents will turn to the Constitutional Court, and it is better for you, coalition, that you explain here, because then it will be easier for you to defend your completely illogical reform in the Constitutional Court. I therefore call on the coalition to come, however, and to justify it in a reasonable way, because what I have heard so far, also about Jelgava... I have not heard any logical reasons, including from Mr Ples. I haven't heard, I haven't heard at all! ( Internouncing call.) I therefore believe that this is a political reform. This is a political decision, and we need a debate, we also need to say here what we think, what the citizens think, so that later, when the citizens turn to the Constitutional Court, they will have the opportunity to appeal to this stupid reform driven by the coalition.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U21	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U22	Good morning, colleagues! I think we all have a fresh memory of the Saeima election campaign when we talked about who is, and the ZZS called itself... Remember for yourself what. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “You promised that you would teach all English!” ) Good job champions! Well, I think, colleagues, we decided yesterday in the previous proposal, No. 111, as at the present time will be with Jelgava city and the municipality together. This is an identical proposal. Colleagues, let's finish, please build your reputation... ZZS - the length of towing champions and reform brake champions! You've proven it a long time ago. ( Internouncing call.) There is nothing to talk about proposals that have already been decided on! ( Milestones.) Do not talk about decided proposals. Don't talk about unvoting proposals, don't repeat them! Don't take it long! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant: ‘Speak on the proposal!’ ) I cannot agree with Mr Dombrava that (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) The work of the Saeima would have been paralyzed. The work of the Saeima is not paralyzed, we do what we have to do, but then we do what we have to do, not the length of the towed! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I A coalition’s plates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U23	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U24	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Colleagues Paviluts... I think that the roll of order of the Saeima allows us to continue the debate on those proposals which are in the Commission... Not Received (Dep. D. Intersentence of Implicit.) ... Thank you. I would like to remind you that for more than two centuries Jelgava was the capital of the Duke of Kurzeme and Zemgale. It was a fully-fledged state, located in the territory of present-day Latvia, whose heraldisc elements we now see in the state coat of arms. In the next 120 years Jelgava was one of the centers of the Baltic province. During the Second World War, no Latvian city had such a long and bitter battle as Jelgava. Historians believe that it was the bleeding of the opposing armies that led to Jelgava in the summer and autumn of 1944 that Riga was left behind and our capital was not destroyed as a result of the resignation of the German troops. To some extent Jelgava has sacrificed itself to Riga. In the coming decades Jelgava became an important industrial centre of Latvia. Here were produced all the world-famous RAF minibuses. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butan: “What does the proposal have to do with it?” ) Many of those present remember these automotive products. Currently Jelgava is the only city in Zemgale, which is by fact the centre of planning the region, the centre of the constituency, and it is Jelgava that must be a metropolitan city. For friendly competition with Lithuania, our republic needs such a center at the southern border of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U25	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U26	Dear colleagues, The Council of Europe says that municipalities are not just geographical units of national territory, whose government can correct, increase or reduce as if they were LEGO blocks. That is what you are doing at the moment: making one or other city large or small without criteria, and not even embarrassing that there are no criteria and logical considerations, just political drive. For one strength, a geopolitical argument, another individual Member - well, I'm coming from there, I should have arranged. This is not a way to implement the reform! There must be one playing field, and they must be fair. And, Mr. Pavilut! You are not the Saeima's order roll!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U27	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U28	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I would not like to start arguing with Mr Pavlut about what he can, what he can't do, it would be even more stupid than what he has begun. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Intersentence of Implicit.) But talking about the proposal as such. There may not be so much talk about Jelgava - it's a big city or a small city. This is about the criteria why this has happened. And, to be honest, its debate is very valuable because of a single recital. Very slowly, but it also begins to float true why and how it is dealt with. Yesterday in the “Direct Language” programme, Mr. Pucenas finally expressed the position of the KPV LV faction, telling how Liepaja maintained the status of the city of great importance to the city or republic. Very elementary - one Liepaja resident, named Vilnitis, had turned to the fact that he did not like that Liepaja became the centre of the municipality. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Yes!” ) That was yesterday. And so he took this care to the developers of the law. And they have taken into account, because to provide 50+, we also need to meet the will of the population. Perhaps in this case the Jelgava people did not turn to the right address, perhaps they did something wrong. We have to say about this, without hiding this thing here and trying to mask it with some utopian development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U29	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U30	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Still... I asked questions from this troupe yesterday, to which none of them had answered so far. It is only possible to climb the platform without reading the Rule of Conduct, to teach others how to live, how to speak or not to speak, whether it is meaningful or not. It's a matter of talking. And that's why there's already a debate in this Saeima to try the brothers who are now being put to the Saeima to make something better and hope that those who may think themselves to be great professionals in relation to municipalities will finally understand what they are doing, why they are doing, what they will do... For there is no measurable figure for Jelgava or Jelgava district in both the assessment of today and the vision of the future. So, colleagues, we don't need to teach each other! Learn for yourself... I don't know, from my mistakes... or teach your neighbor, but don't teach your fellow workers. I invite you to join me. ... However, I call for a review of the decisions on what are the big cities, which are not the big cities. No one can tell the public that six are less than three. Well, be a little logical and think with your head!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U31	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U32	Good morning, colleagues! I certainly agree with one thing from Mr Dombrava's point of view. I really believe that this draft law... It would be wise to give him back to the commission. But not because there is a pandemic, but because it is clear that there is some other plague that causes us such a reform, such a darts are pushed through. And Jelgava's question in the previous and this proposal simply shows clearly that he is symbolising this brother. And one more thing. Yeah, it's a little salt in relation to a pandemic. Clearly, we see that the economy, to put it very easily, will immediately collapse into the world and with us. And it won't be... which wasn't so... 300 million roads, no... There will be no more 300 million roads. I think it will also be difficult to co-finance administrative territorial reform. Let us say this: to create even more chaos with such a brother in an economically difficult situation in the country, both before and after the elections, I think it is simply crazy. As this is in the context of this proposal, I say once again - Jelgava confirms how much we are able to carry out this reform, and I agree - the commissions should be handed over, because indeed, right now we will have a lot of issues to decide on in relation to the pandemic. Of course, at the Saeima House it will have to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U33	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U34	Latvia is a parliamentary republic, and the task of the parliamentary debate between the position and the opposition is to inform the public, to build public opinion and also to influence the behaviour of the population. Therefore, any speech from this troupe performs exactly these three functions. What functions and tasks... What are the tasks of this reform? Yesterday, Mr Dombrava showed, for the first time, and thanks for his openness, that this reform has not only political but even geopolitical significance. So there are some elements, some of the impact elements that we have not yet known about. It was discovered yesterday. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman and Depp. E. Herbs-Gross intermediates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U35	Mrs Luņova, please, for the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U36	Jelgava...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U37	On the proposal, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U38	The proposal. So, if the reform as a whole also has geopolitical significance, then the status of Jelgava... Former so-called ‘Prime Minister’ of the so-called ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. On the other hand, I will ask you to think about the fact that it is time for Parliament to do a policy that will really improve people's lives and, before the government decides what to do, to think about what we could do during a global pandemic.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U39	On the proposal, please! The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U40	Good morning, colleagues! Listening to the debate about Jelgava, yesterday and today, the feeling is that, with the withdrawal of the republic's city, Jelgava's city will be wiped out of the earth's surface, and the education traditions that have been in existence for a long time will be destroyed by the economy (Dep. R. Bergmanis: “Critiques! You were asked!” ) which has been swimming for a very long time in Jelgava. But, colleagues, that will not be the case! Jelgava will maintain the status of the city. And what we've seen and what we know... that such a step should have been taken for a long time to combine the city with the surrounding area. The city of the Republic, as we know, means that this is a city without a rural area. But in order to ensure closer development along with the surrounding regions that citizens receive these services in the city, it is necessary to take this step, which we have already taken, and to unite this area in a common integrated whole, so that we can effectively develop the urban environment and citizens can finally get much better quality services. So, my fellow Members, I can reassure you, the city of Jelgava will not be wiped off the surface of the earth, but it will be given much more opportunities to develop in the future. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant: “ Which quality services - name! Not just muldi!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U41	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U42	Mr Ples, I think you have no idea about the quality of services in Jelgava and Jelgava and you can't even imagine how they will change and how the quality of social services varies, for example, in Jelgava and Jelgava. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( See K. Feldman's Intersense.) That's the first. Second. If it's not so bad that Jelgava doesn't have any more... will not have the status of a republic city, well, let's do the same with Liepaja, nothing will happen, won't it, KPV LV?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Liepaja will remain in place and there will be peace in our country. We take the same status for Liepaja and then let's see what will happen in your stable government.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U43	The name to Member Uldis Augums for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U44	Some time ago, Mr Pavluta said that it was not right to climb the table for a proposal that was unvoting. Mr. Plies just got up and told me how good everything will be. Mr. Plies, stand up, name one service that is better than it is today, and tell me how much more quality!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U45	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U46	Yesterday the Minister started... A little outline of history in the context of this reform and Jelgava, namely that in the original offer there were only two cities of the republic - Riga and Jurmala. All the other things, Rēzekne including, Daugavpils... was combined with the surrounding district - either added to the city or vice versa. And that's true, that's what we can all see in the original documents. Only where the minister stopped was... explain how the rest of the cities appeared. Of course, he's defaulting because the rest of the cities appeared because he had to say votes if... I must say the votes so that any reform, in the opinion of the Pouce, can be carried out at all. The same applies to the Saulkrasti. The same applies to the zero level, the same applies to the second level. All of this is being cast out, and there is nothing to say that it is thought out, analysed, and so on. Let's get it back to the commission! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U47	Name to Member Aivars Gaidan. ( Subtotal: “The Geidan refused! ” ) First name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U48	Good morning, President. Dear Members, What you have to say... because, of course, this question will not, of course, come... will not withdraw from the agenda after it was voted last time, but we will talk much more about it, most probably also experts in the Constitutional Court. In view of the false statement that the services have been evaluated, we can say with full responsibility that we have surveyed the city of Jelgava as well as the counties - no assessments of the quality of the services have taken place. And therefore, all the success that has been both in Jelgava and, indeed, in the counties, must be assessed as their joint efforts, the heads of the municipalities. Jelgava is also a positive example of this cooperation, especially in the field of education, where Jelgava is one of the best examples of how to cooperate with the municipality... they have been and have been carried out independently of the fact that the territory has been in different municipalities. Again. This is a big experiment, unnecessary experiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U49	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U50	I can't vote, we can go further. This proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U51	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U52	So the 113th proposal by Mr. Valaiņš provides for the status of the Republican city of Jēkabpils. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U53	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U54	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, This proposal concerns my home town, so I was not able to participate in the debate. I know that I am not the only person who was born in Jēkabpils and works in this term. I think it's normal for the Saeima Member to meet with... elected from Zemgale, meets with representatives from their own constituency. And I want to say that neither the mayor of Jēkabpils nor the mayors asked to maintain the status of the city of the republic. They agree with the option proposed by the MoEPRD and will be responsible for the decision taken in the future. Mr SaskaņA will not support the Member's proposal, Mr Valaiņš, and will not vote in favour at all, because we believe that Zemgale must have one city of national importance and that it must be Jelgava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U55	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U56	Here, too, I would like to talk about public administration in general and how much this proposal has been assessed. As far as Jelgava is concerned, it is quite clear that it has not been assessed, and you have even missed the fact that there are much higher services in Jelgava municipality than in Jelgava. In the field of education, Ozolnieki has higher services than in Jelgava. We can say the same about the city of Jēkabpils. In Jēkabpils, services as such have not been assessed in the context of the reform. Development/About! and the relevant minister's understanding of the reform is quite a simple presentation of... a presentation on the unification of the cities and districts of the Republic. Assumption is only one, one plus one is three. In the context of the reform as a whole, one plus three. So let's go together. ... Let's get together Jacob's castle... Jēkabpils Municipality, Krustpils Municipality, and will form an economically stronger unit. Colleagues, from the fact that they put together two equal... two equal units, don't come up... What's... its problems are you also somehow combining immediately? That doesn't happen, colleagues! That's what you need to understand. But I would like to pay special attention to the economic performance of Jēkabpils. The economic indicators of Jēkabpils aren't those brightest today, but the role of Jēkabpils... and here in particular the representatives of Latgale seem to fight for the cities of the republic - Daugavpils and Rezekne - and for the Latvian cities... Remember that the role of Jēkabpils is greatest in urban development. If the economic situation of Jēkabpils deteriorates, the economic situation of their outermost cities will automatically deteriorate. How then you will ensure that in a middle that... would economic development take place at the intersection of Jacob’s city in a concentrated manner, so that there would be some kind of engine? This is not currently the case. On the contrary, it is proposed to disperse investments. Distributed investments are offered. With regard to what the Minister said yesterday, I will touch on the next proposals, but the Minister also deceived the Saeima in some way, saying that the city of the Republic is just such a status. In the sense of the law of municipalities, it is simply a status, but there are other, special laws that impose on cities of the republics completely other duties. There is a completely different attitude to these cities. The country has always expected something completely different from these cities in the field of education, health, business, in any of the aspects. The significance of the city is far greater than that of the city of Jēkabpils. Its development will affect the development of all Latgale. Therefore, my fellow Members, I would like to call for an evaluation and a vote in favour of these proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U57	Thank you. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U58	Yes, colleagues, with regard to the city of Jēkabpils, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that no criteria are taken into account here to change this status, so the population is not taken into account, and the existing cooperation between the city of Jēkabpils and adjacent regions is not taken into account. And all the more - so this, like everyone else, is a political decision, because there are no criteria, there are no arguments why Jēkabpils should be combined in the region with the adjacent regions. All the more, I think... I always thought that coalition might sometimes try to remove something from the surface and wipe it off. And when I was talking about Jēkabpils, I realized that you must be fighting some German baron, like... Some remains, because Jekabpils is in fact the city of the Duke of Kurzeme. If you now want to put away everything that has been preserved in history, you will be able to do so. — Dep. K. Interdependence of the Girgen.) , what German barons once created, founded cities, then I understand - yes, your wish is to eliminate everything, including our own history.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U59	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U60	In some period between the moment when the government submitted the bill to the Saeima, and today's commission, it has come to the conclusion that the city of Jēkabpils will certainly develop better together with the surrounding districts, but Rezekne – on the contrary, if. Rēzekne must remain separate and similar. It would only be reasonable for those who led this up and the head of the commission to come and even for this comparison to tell us how they have come to such conclusions, why it gives a positive result at one point, the other not. Maybe it's... Well, there should be some logical justification. I understand, of course, what I said earlier: it is political. We all decide politically, that is normal. Only political decisions can be made reasonable and political decisions can be made unreasonablely. But then the question is, is there any reason at this bottom? Unfortunately, no response will be given, because in fact, when the reform was still in the government, there were also meetings in various fora with us officials, experts. The question... If we now believe that combining it with urban areas is the right strategy for growth, it should nevertheless be assessed what has been done in the past and what the results have been achieved. Gulbene. For example, the province of Gulbene has been such for 10 years. Well, unite around... the actual boundaries of the former areas. Well, it would be the reference point that we now want to copy in many places, except for those places where we take political considerations out of town if. Some conclusions should be drawn, some analysis, 10 years are a long period for us to conclude whether Gulbene's example of how we are going to redesign the whole of Latvia has produced this desired result. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “No!” ) Understanding whether there has been growth, or whether there have been provided services - better, worse, whether they are subjective or objective circumstances. Maybe in Gulbene, I don't know, the mayor has worked well or worked badly, but they're not the circumstances why it's big or small, it can be. But such an analysis was inevitable if we offer this medicine to everyone further, if it is the way to develop. None of these officials could give such an analysis, and honestly they also said - no one has ever analysed it, studied it - is a assumption that maybe it will not be worse, maybe it will be better. But you can't... it cannot lead the country if, on “may”. Especially if we have 10 years of experience in such a model not only in Gulbene, but Gulbene is the most classic example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U61	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U62	Colleagues! The Municipality of Jēkabpils has decided that it supports the offer to combine it with the municipality. The county objected. And then let's talk about the considerations. But I'm worried about one significant indicator that the Ministry itself predicts. If so far the combined Jelgava region, the city and the municipality have lost 15 percent of the population in 10 years, then this trend will continue for the coming years. It is planned that by 2030 the population in the combined Jelgava district will decrease by 7.5 thousand people - from 41 700, slightly more, to 34 thousand. I think that this figure shows one fundamental defect: that the Ministry proposes to unite municipalities, proposes to redo the boundaries, but does not propose any additional support measures to make these major municipalities also stronger in nature. And in this context, I also really think that it would be useful for Jēkabpils to maintain the status of the republic city or the status of the large city, so that it would continue to be motivated to be that centre of economic development. It was interesting to look at the map prepared by the LMT, where Jēkabpils novads is named apostolic and the inhabitants of the city of Jēkabpils - as poor people. To motivate them to remain unemployed, I think they must give them tools. The status of a major city could be one of them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U63	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U64	It's about Jēkabpils again. This proposal actually also distinguishes what is known as Selia's fate, because then, when voting in favour of Selia's fate, there will be a little lack of precision. But what I would like to emphasise once again and again from this troupe about what Mr Pavulut and Mr Pleš have said about these services. Services are not assessed during the reform. Also included are Jēkabpils, Jēkabpils district residents. If we look at the European Commission's reports, which it likes to refer to in terms of functional territories... Yeah, it's really a number of years, but it's never... never has it been said that it is necessary to create, unite territories in major municipalities. That's the other way around! Europe believes that the municipality starts from 50 thousand... it has never been unanimously accepted... But Jelgava is over 50,000!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U65	Thank you. It's over. I closed the debate. So, on behalf of the commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U66	In the Commission, the 113th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U67	Please call me! Let's vote for 113. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U68	The 114th proposal submitted by the Member Jānis Dombrava provides for the exclusion of the parishes of the potential Aizkraukle municipality from the annex to the law in order to create the municipality of Viesīte. This is also linked to Mr Dombrava's proposal. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U69	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U70	This proposal, as has already been mentioned, is linked to a number of other proposals which propose the creation of a large municipality of Viesīte, or the municipality of Selia. I will add to some that I have no home, apartment, or land in this region of Selia, which could cause some reproach. This proposal was made at a time when the municipalities themselves had not yet agreed, but during the work of the committee the municipalities were able to meet together several times and agree both that they wanted to work together and that they saw as their center directly Guests. Of course, from the point of view of the challenge - what would such a municipality expect? The challenges are many. One of the main things is that in this region the centre would have a very small population, but on the other hand, it is a political question, whether we see the possibility that new centres can be formed in Latvia or whether they can still not be formed. My view is that as a result of a targeted state aid policy, it is possible to create new centres and from the point of view of such polycentric development it would only be valuable that in the territory of Selija, where there are many socio-economic problems which are similar to those faced by Latgale border municipalities, certain municipalities in Northern Vidzeme and Kurzeme... that here, too, we would need to create an additional centre outside Jēkabpils and Aizkraukle, which could ensure the development of this region. Of course, in the next 5th 10th century, the city of Jēkabpils will remain the main centre of the region, just as Riga will remain the main centre of cooperation with all Latvian cities. But at the same time, there is an opportunity to develop a local centre, which could be located in Viesite if it is also the will of all seven municipalities and a municipality with a sufficient population and theoretically with opportunities to compete qualitatively and develop in the coming years.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U71	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U72	According to figures, the municipality of Selia would be more powerful than the city of Jēkabpils, after economic activity, if we were looking at this issue in essence, then, of course, the municipality of Selia would be a polycentric development region, what it should be, and Jēkabpils would remain as a center of monocentric development, as a driving force, as Mr. Dombrava has already mentioned... the driving force behind the development of the entire region and a much wider region - not only for the municipality of Selija, but also for the municipality of Daugavpils, the city of Daugavpils, the municipality of Rezekne, the city of Rezekne, in principle for the whole Latgale. Such joint cooperation would, in my opinion, be much more successful in solving the challenges that are most important for this part of Latvia. With the support of such a proposal, we will make it possible for this area to... Sēlija would not only have cultural and historical cooperation, but not just institutional cooperation, which has already developed... For several years now, where... and now it should be highlighted in particular that these municipalities, with the decisions of the councils, could be said, historically for the first time decided that they were ready to agree on further cooperation, and in this case they should also issue that political mandate to the residents of municipalities. A large region would be formed. This is one good, good example of how the municipalities should be set up - it is the municipalities that agree with each other on what would be the best solution for the management of the municipalities. Why does Sēly fight for independence? Because quite simply understand, and it is absolutely logical that their development vectors with the city of Jēkabpils are not together. They have a great deal of cooperation, certainly they have enormous cooperation, but it is not one against one side of how to manage and which policy in these municipalities. And it would also be an opportunity for the whole territory of Selia to fight politically for its own development and for its own growth in a unified way, putting together those scenarios of development that are logical. At the moment, the scenarios that are for James are not finally going along with those scenarios that are for Selijai. I would like to call for this proposal to be supported, and I will certainly go even further. There is much more to say about the justification for the development prospects of the municipality of Selia in future proposals too. Colleagues, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U73	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U74	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, Indeed, this was one controversial issue in the Reform Commission. In essence, I support Mr Dombrava's proposal. Seoul's leaders... Yes, they agreed on a common region of Selijah. There were several votes in the Commission, I also voted initially in favour of the creation of the municipality of Selija, but then the last vote was that the Commission asked the representatives of the seven counties of Selija, the leaders to find the most accessible option possible for Selija to be formed as a municipality, if there is one of the centres - Aizkraukle or Jēkabpils. But they persevered in their own way, and the guest must have been... And that's for the commission, well... created problems for me too, because I think that this issue could still remain open, open. Also residents of Selia municipality together with local government leaders... yet they should consider whether there is a possibility for them, the municipality of Selija, to foresee a centre, a larger one, but something like, let's say, Daugavpils or Rezekne, or Liepaja version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U75	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U76	Dear President, Honourable Members! This, I think, is the case where we could support the President's recommendation to respect the traditions of cultural and historical areas. Of course, the current proposal does not draw up this, and I think that we have the opportunity to go back to it at third reading. As far as Selie is concerned, I looked at the turn map of 1939. Well, here's the bottom... See, this is the former county of Ilūkste. Of course, Selija includes a larger territory, somewhere from Jaunjelgava or Jēkabpils to the borders of Lithuania and Belarus, but should economic development lead to the abandonment of one cultural and historical tradition? Could we mix the seeds in some way, which is one of the historical small nations of Latvia? In time, Selija was the Duke of Kurzeme and Zemgale - repeat! - not a simple part, but constitutional monarchies - constitutional monarchies! - component. Latgale has never been like that. In time, in 1218 even before the Duke of Kurzeme, Selija was a separate land in the Federation of Livonia. In 1218 she was built as a bishopship, one of the federal lands that formed Livonian territory. In 1244,... What, then, was in Selaya? Who were these leaders, or, how do we now say, the cowardly, the priests? I looked... Giant and Dindy. They accepted the Catholic faith. So Selija's cultural history is absolutely different from Daugavpils district, from Latgale, where there is Catholic religion - there are very large linguistic differences, large traditions. And, by the way, it's interesting that until 1962 when Krustpils added... How many years have it been... But the old people, who live in Krustpils, still today, differ in language from the inhabitants of Jēkabpils. I think this is the case where really bridges have been built and economically... Sēlija can work in Daugavpils, but they can work in Riga, they can work in Jēkabpils, and we should keep this... maintain this cultural and historical tradition and territory.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U77	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U78	There have already been criticisms here today that, here, this is the longest debate in the history of the Saeima, but it seems to me that this is not about the methods of using time to torpedo reform or otherwise, but simply replacing what was to be done by a commission that was to be done by the ministry at the beginning. Listen to the current discussion on the creation of Selia County! This is a clean matter for the commission. Perhaps it is really very interesting, but the only thing I would like to mention in particular is that any development is made up not of borders between municipalities or cities, but of people and people's attitude. If they are ready to accept the offer, then it mobilises and increases the energy that is dedicated to development. If it is accepted by some kind of scepter or irony, then it is not possible to expect any good methods here. I would like to speak here and perhaps to support it instead of this proposal, because it really... there is still work to do, but I wanted to support Mr Dombrava's proposal, which I spoke about on the first day, that it should - and that would be a work of mind to put an end to this long and rather infertile debate here - back here to the draft law commission to continue preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U79	Name of Member Janina Kursīte–Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U80	Dear colleagues, The municipality of Selija may have its own pluses and minuses, just as a good part of the region will be. A common cultural identity of the Selia district, which is a very important, unifying factor also for economic development. The seeds were already in the 14th century a very strong base point or base for Lithuanian struggles against Latgale and Vidzeme. This is not why Selya should be given the status of a county, of course. But just these... the fact that the testicles are still... is really, well, very many connecting factors of physical identity. It's mine that both the liver and others... What Victor Valainis also talked about, about this polycentric... it would be such a good idea and a good solution. But, for example, a graveld road leads from Akiste to Viesite, so to a possible center. Is the infrastructure actually also expected to be improved immediately? I don't know if it's for local people... They don't have the opportunity to ride with jeeps from the present Aknieste region to, let's say, Guests. The very name of Selijah, if accepted, confuses me. We confuse not only cultural and historical regions with administrative districts in the names, using pre-war districts instead of the term “region”, but also the same names. Well, if Selija is a cultural and historical region and we return to it... not coming back, but the name would be “Selia”, we go out completely... it would be like one child called Arthur Tom, Didzis and others put the word “third” or “fourth” in a row. Well, that's the principle that's broken down. It would be more logical, in my opinion, to name the Viesīte region. I agree with Mr Kazinovsky's proposal, including Mr Dombrava's proposal, that this issue is still open and open to discussion, but there are quite a lot of benefits here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U81	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U82	This proposal, in my opinion, opens up such a far-reaching debate, but in the context... And... Well, I mean, there's two... two types of approaches to how we plan Latvia. One is to respect, take account of the cultural and historical heritage, and the other extreme is, well, a pure state as a company, if. State as a company. We know who said this in Latvia - Andris Šķele in 1995, but in fact he only borrowed from Bill Clinton, because this formula was formulated by Bill Clinton in 1992, after being elected president of the United States, but it was not yet inaugurated and the Cold War was over. They formulated a new US policy - a state as a company. And if we assume that a country is a company, then the cultural and historical circumstances are, of course, secondary, we divide the country into economic blocks, larger or smaller, in fact as they are today. That approach is the same at the moment... the problem is that we only say in words that we are a country, but if we approach this reform as if it were a company, then it will not be too successful in practice. We lack some experience there. I think that the right approach would be a combination of these two approaches. Cultural-historical traditions must be respected, but an effective economic space must be created at the same time. And I think that his real effectiveness can be exactly if he combines these two moments - in other words, not the state as a company, but rather the state as a family. To lead the country as a family where we respect diversity, but at the same time we support each other and move forward. And here's the moment, we get to what we haven't discussed yet, because the bill will only become if it becomes, as Mr. Pouce said. The need for these two levels. For the second level to be less cultural, but to take care, let us say, of economic development, investment projects and other matters, while the first level could reasonably be more cultural in the sense that we are removing economic development issues. Then there is a place in Alsunga to be. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , and all other smaller regions. Once again, this is the combination between democracy and effective public administration. It is not for nothing that there are several levels of government or administrative division in the world, because it is simply impossible to combine all this in one side, without breaking, not moving more on one side or on the other side. That's why I... I have a sympathetic offer, but now we probably don't get... but it would be a broader debate, and here again we... Well, again, there's a second... the question of the second level breakdown that could be a medicinal product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U83	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U84	When discussing administrative territorial supply and future municipalities, it is clear that there are several edges here: economic factors, social factors, geographical factors and, of course, cultural and historical factors. As several experts have pointed out both in the context of Selija and Varakļāni, the cultural space extends across administrative boundaries. I would like to point out that yesterday, in my opinion, we adopted and approved a very good thing - we commissioned the Ministry of Culture to develop a cultural and historical concept of how to create a cultural space in Latvia, develop and support different cultural and historical environments. This is very important from the point of view of the preservation of communities and from the point of view of the development of communities. On this issue, which concerns the creation of the Viesīte district, we discussed extensively within the Commission. The Commission instructed these potential municipalities to negotiate and agree which could be the potential centre of development - whether it could be Aizkraukle or Jēkabpils. The municipalities came with their vision that it could be the Viesite. And if we look at it from here, let's say... from an economic development point of view, if we were to put the guests at the centre of development, then, potentially, in the future... At present, there are about one and a half thousand people. And it is clear that very large investments would be needed to develop this centre here. For now, as the data presented by the joint study of the LMT and the University of Latvia show, economic capacity is in Aizkraukle and Jēkabpils. In this case, too, at the limited resources that we have, in my view, it would be sensible to strengthen these centres, not forgetting, of course, also the strengthening of the environment and economic development in the surrounding regions. Therefore, colleagues, in this case, I think that this proposal should not be supported at the moment. At the same time, as Janīna Kursīte-Pakule pointed out, it is important to think about the cultural historical and cultural moments of space development. I think that is what we are going to do. We are waiting for active work from the Ministry of Culture to work more and more effectively on issues that have perhaps been neglected so far.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U85	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U86	Hello, colleagues! On this offer of Selia County, I've been crossover over the last month with the Nerets, guests, liverians and so on (the list is long), and I can tell you what, let's say, people on the ground think about all this. For example, Nereta. Not often before was Jēkabpils district, then Aizkraukle district. And there people say: “Well, unite us where you want! So what will change all of this for us?” If you look at the Guest, where that center is supposed to... There, sorry, harsh, but there's nothing. I don't know how it's possible to mark a center there. And more and more and more... There are a number of these things. No matter how much I would really like to have this... Selya, however, I would probably agree with what Mr Kazinovsky has already said and what I myself said to the Commission (in my view, even the opposition has agreed) - that he could do this... Sedation as an administrative center to leave, but the development center... But it shouldn't be a Guest, because... Well, there's nothing, colleagues. I don't see how... I don't understand, to be honest, how something can develop there at all... And my colleague, Mr. Schmidt, also mentioned... It's that... one of the models actually... Because we... What's up, let's take it, Neret? There is no living area. New families are coming back, but there is no place to live. Go to the garden, they're told there's no room in the garden. And then a man is voting with his feet -- he's in another district right now. We can already combine six... May we bring together six, I apologize, the poor. — Dep. V. Valaiņš’ intermediate call.) and expect them to do something about it, but they won't do it, colleagues! That is why I also think that this issue is certainly still open. But why were these delegated representatives themselves in the committee meeting fully in position and did not even try to accept the proposals - that is the question! And what people say there's talking... There is one particular county that has raised the green flag, and the rest have gone with them, without even thinking. And if we're told that we don't take into account the wishes of the people, then... Directly, by the way, the people voted in favour of Aizkraukle. So... So, in fact, we take direct account of it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U87	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U88	People wonder why banks refuse to credit people in rural areas, why people leave rural areas. This, in my opinion, is also largely due to this attitude - that we believe that if there is not enough city in this case along the middle of the region, then the region has no potential for development. This is the case of a district with more than 20,000 inhabitants (more than, for example, the Olaines district). Do we really believe that these people are so unable to find enough members of the local government to develop the whole territory further in the business environment? In view of this specific situation, there is no middle-sized city in this future municipality of Viesīte... I really believe that this is a struggle of different visions rather than a question of being or not a centre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U89	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U90	I can't agree that there are six poor people in Selya... These six... The six municipalities of this municipality unite together... A profile was also shown in the commission... they are an economically stronger unit than Jēkabpils, the city of Jēkabpils. What was assigned to the municipalities of Selia, was assigned, in the sense of the head of the commission, to choose: to whom you added - to Aizkraukle or to Jēkabpils? The whole of Selya. Development centre and administrative centre - these are two different places. The city of Jacob will be all Selia... baskets, as you wish, Jēkabpils will be the center of development! This is a stupid question of substance - where will your development centre be? Where does Latvia have a development centre? ( How can you ask such a question at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) Of course, it is Riga, it is automatically clear. And so were the seeds asked a stupid question... But basically that question was about it: where are you, all of Selia, to add - to Jēkabpils or to Aizkraukle? And in this context, the issue cannot be looked at. Let us continue the debate, there will be further proposals on this issue. There'll be more!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U91	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U92	I would like to agree with Mr Dombrava that we should not sow pessimism that we have nothing anywhere... Well, that there can be nothing in the Guest... and so on. We're definitely... If we are wise and want to change something, we can make a big difference. But... It should be understood here that this is not what we are talking about. It won't be Viest, Neret and other places like... They will develop not so much because the map of the administrative division will be different, but what economic policy will be in these areas and places. Will we introduce a special tax regime that will attract entrepreneurs and people working in the companies in question? Will we still consider Latvia as flat in tax terms... that in Riga and Neret there must be the same tax policy... both Antonijas street in Riga and Viesite? That's the big question! But it is not a matter of today's agenda; it needs another debate, perhaps even more serious than these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U93	The name to Member Sandy Riekstin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U94	Colleagues! For these six poor... I don't think specifically of Selija, I said this as an example. What will change if six poor people unite? That is first. Secondly. Mr. Valains, what you said... you yourself were in the Commission, you also agreed with the proposal that I made, and you heard what I said. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “What was it?” ) There was no question of what you were talking about... And I carry no pessimism, I explained what people ask. ‘ What's this, Guest... What will be the centre here?” I am talking about this, not that I am saying that. And if here we're talking about entrepreneurship, I can say that there's a peat bog in the stone, the peat extraction, that's all there's; there's a sawmill in one... through logging. That's all there is. There's nothing more, I think, it's not going to happen right now. That's why... Well, if there's no strong local authority, there's nothing going to change significantly. There's something to do with added value, not...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U95	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U96	In the Commission, the 114th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U97	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 114. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 47, for - 2. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Members Gobzem, Stepanenko, Bergmanis, Liepiņa and Dūklav ask to announce a break at the Saeima sitting from 10.15 to 10.45. Mr Aldis Gobzems has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U98	Colleagues! I ask for a break in this sitting, and I call on the entire coalition to collect 34 signatures together with the opposition today and to announce an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. The opposition has prepared... We know you, too, sometime... you will be objectively forced to do the same - call emergency sittings due to the spread of the dangerous infectious disease Covid-19. We have prepared a draft decision with the necessary actions, in fact authorising the Cabinet of Ministers (Interface: “They are already working!” ) to carry out specific activities. And in this particular case, it would be irresponsible on the part of the Saeima not to take such a decision, it would be irresponsible to postpone it. And in fact what the Saeima should adopt today in an extraordinary sitting would be the following solutions. And I'll tell you why. For example, Denmark is deciding today whether to limit public events visited by more than 30 people. For example, in Italy, as I've been informed this morning, young people have also died... the last day of the day. What measures should be put in place? First of all - abolish all public events, stop all studies... classes not only in kindergartens, but in all educational establishments; to ensure that children actually have the same vitamin C if necessary; to decide on tax holidays for those sectors where there are problems, especially the tourism sector, they are restaurants... and in that spirit. To decide how food will be delivered to quarantined, poor or elderly people; to decide on disinfectants; to decide on the issues related to the relocation of extraordinary elections to Riga City Council, on what is necessary to ensure control at the borders of Latvia (it is very possible to close the borders for migrants from certain countries). So, questions relating to the revision of the budget in the context of this unforeseen situation when health care is a priority sector. Issues relating to the incapacity sheets and their issue and payment. These are issues that are more topical today than what we are deciding on. I call on the Saeima Coalition to be responsible, to convene an extraordinary sitting and to take these decisions today. It is clear that we will not deal with reform issues today... and let us not look, most likely, throughout the following week. Let us therefore be accountable to our society! We will not delay the course of this sitting, so please for half an hour. We have a draft decision. Even if you want to move your way, just add, please, in this draft decision... with our suggestions. We are adopting these issues today in a fast, short session without a long debate and coming back, we are continuing to decide on the reform! That would be the actions of responsible politicians. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U99	“Pret” has applied to speak by Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U100	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! First. I would like to say that the break will now be in 12 minutes, another one. So I don't see why we should publish a separate break. That is first. Secondly. Each Member or group of Members may, of course, table various motions for votes at any time in the Saeima. Thirdly. With regard to the Covid-19, as we have certainly heard, today's meeting of the Crisis Management Board is convened at the Cabinet of Ministers at 14.00. Executive, Cabinet of Ministers, responsible... when necessary, meet and decide on new ones (Dep. Mr Stepanenko and Mr Depp. A. Gobzem’s intermediate names.) ... new proposals to limit infection. I would like to call very much, honourable colleagues (Dep. V. Dombrovskis’ intermediate call. ... And the Ministry of Health also comes today to the Crisis Management Board with new proposals, restrictive proposals regarding the spread of infection. I would very much call, colleagues... I would like to ask my fellow Members to listen to what experts - epidemiologists - say about the spread of the virus, not just to think politically about it. We're... No, no. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Epidemiologists can’t prevent!” ), we cannot discuss what the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control recommend to us. Every day ( Dep. L. Liepiņa and dep. R. Lochmele-Lunovo intersage.) , every morning at 9.00, the Ministry of Health also hosts meetings on this outbreak, the Minister and the Ministry's responsible officials listen to professionals, experts on the situation, and the process is taking place. And it works. That is why I would ask you to do this ( Dep. R. Bergmanis’ intermediate call.) do not announce such a break and do not give this question such a special... such a political colour. Colleagues, once again - let us base our political decisions on the expertise and recommendations of specialists! I am convinced that the Ministry of Health is doing this excellently. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem said, "The Saeima will have to decide like this." ) Thank you. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U101	Please call me! Let us vote for a break to the Saeima sitting by 10.45 a.m.! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 53, abstaining - 3. So no break is announced. Let's keep going!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U102	115. - the proposal by Member Viktoras Valaiņš to maintain the Aizkraukle district in its existing territories, as is the case today. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U103	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U104	Concerning the creation of Aizkraukle Municipality. This proposal, in a way, also goes with this exactly... Establishment of the municipality of Selia. I think we will continue to talk about the creation of the municipality of Selia, looking at a number of future proposals. What, then, has been said in this case? In this case, it is said that a more successful governance will be established by bringing these territories together. If you get acquainted with municipal decisions, Aizkraukle municipality does not object as such, and these surrounding regions also look like a possibility... if you need to unite, it could go to unification. Of course, it is important to stress that citizens' decisions in these compositions... There is no clear definition in these regions. Most, however, where surveys have been carried out, have indicated that they are against this. The managers of the municipalities said accordingly to the committee... From Koknese, for example, said that they would be prepared for such a scenario. But what is to be understood is that this region should, in my opinion, be built in another configuration. And that is why I withdrew this proposal as such. I think I will submit to the third reading another configuration for this proposal - in line with the decision of the municipal councils. Why am I doing this? Because, in my view, it really appeared in the debate that the municipality of Selia would be a more successful management solution than that currently offered to VARAM. Because VARAM and politicians too, looking at this proposal... The only real reason why she didn’t create the municipality of Selijah was that there was no centre of development in the municipality of Selijah. There is no development center as such in Rēzekne municipality. There is no Rēzekne municipality development centre. the novads of Sēlijas, one to one... with Rezekne Municipality, Daugavpils Municipality... One to one, that is the situation. And in this case, I would still call... I withdrawn this proposal. And I will submit to the third reading a different, alternative, version. Just like... I hope that today the Saeima will vote in favour of the creation of the municipality of Selia. Because, in my opinion, issues relating to the organisation of these services and public administration in general have not been assessed. There's just this... the old map of Soviet times has been put together, but it has forgotten that the old map of Soviets had even lower levels of municipalities that provided services to citizens. These areas have not been created correctly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U105	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U106	116. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal, which seeks to preserve the region of Jaunjelgava within its existing limits. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U107	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U108	Jaunjelgavas novads - it is a special municipality, and I would like to say that the management of this municipality has always been an effort to stand and stand up for the development of its own municipality and for the rights of its residents. I would like to emphasise that Jaunjelgavas municipality is one of those regions that... your citizens' rights are successful - successful! - defended in the Constitutional Court, fighting for the right to establish and maintain a school, fighting specifically for the decision-making rights of the population, which have been given to them by the law “On Local Authorities”. I will not make any mention of this proposal. In my opinion, Jaunjelgavas municipality in this offer, where... now the Ministry is offering to add them to Aizkraukle municipality. In my opinion, this solution is not fully thought out. The right place for Jaunjelgava is where... as the council has decided. And the council has decided that the county of Jaunjelgava should be located in the municipality of Selija. And this one just shows that this one is... In the novads of Aizkraukles, where they are now offered... Aizkraukle Municipality Development... We'll get to Jaunjelgava County... I do not think that there will be a representative representation of this population large enough to represent their interests. More logically, from the point of view of the representation of the population, Jaunjelgava would have been part of this region of Selija. And I would call for this proposal to be supported, because it is much more logical in this case, if it is not in Selia, then it is better to remain alone as it is. So... Thank you. ( Insight: “Sēlija... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U109	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U110	Proposal 116 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U111	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 116. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U112	117. - the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, which provides for the establishment of a municipality of Selia. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U113	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U114	Yeah. This is the proposal to create the municipality of Selia. As I said before, in the case of the establishment of the municipality of Selija, the municipality of Selija would be an economically stronger unit than the city of Jēkabpils. I think that by numbers too, the region of Selija will definitely be a more economically powerful entity than the municipality of Rēzekne. Maybe... Definitely - also about Daugavpils region. These are the districts that the government decided to leave... Create... The same principle applies here as in the version proposed by the government. There is a strong development center - a development center, which is the city of Jēkabpils. And in this way, the Saeima would express its support that territories can also develop in a polycentric way - as has been the case so far... around the big cities. And if we appreciate Selia County... Mr. Pleska said earlier that he was valued by economic, geographical, cultural and historical... I do not think that the opinion of the citizens has been taken into account. I will repeat again and again: the municipality of Selija for years - for years already! - working together, for years already... have established cooperation in a number of areas of service. And, in my opinion, too, in the commission... In defending the creation of the municipality of Selia, I think there was a lack of logical arguments. This question... You can compare... just like Rezekne and Jelgava... just like any of the big regions... This one would also be created... one of the largest regions in Latvia - with stable historical roots, with a clear wish that they would like to build a self-government in this way (Dep. S. Riekstins: “Nemelo!” )... And if someone feels that going to talk to some people means finding out the opinion of the people, I do not completely agree. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) If we take a look at the decisions we make, we will be able to see what decisions we make. — Dep. S. Riekstins: “What do you think? Look at the population surveys!” ), the decision-making process is very concrete: to build the municipality of Selija. About dome decisions. Most of these areas are opposed to the reform as a whole. Most are against this reform as a whole and not against it... about where they're going to be. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucce: “Time! Time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U115	Let's have a debate after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U116	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U117	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry! Time for notifications. Name to Member Aldim Adamovich. I am sorry, Mrs Golubeva! Mr Adamovich's statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U118	Today it is planned to meet two Ukrainian women. One is Irina Divhana, who has been a prisoner of the Dunecka fighters, and the other is the director of the film “Unbreaked” Olga Volinska. The meeting is scheduled for the next interim for half an hour... 40 minutes. In particular, those in the group of Members for the promotion of cooperation with the Ukrainian Parliament, I call... At 12.30 Jēkaba iela 10/12, fourth floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U119	Thank you. And now, Mrs. Golubeva's name.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U120	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Linda Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Juta Strike, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U121	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U122	Dear colleagues, We are continuing the debate on 117. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Family Union. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U123	In the Commission, I voted in favour of the creation of the municipality of Selia. And, to be honest, listening to all the municipalities that have been cooperating for many years and which had really agreed on their own for our commission... I had no doubts about the development, future of my municipality of Selija that these people who run these municipalities would be able to do so. Whether the administrative center will be the Guest... Because, as we understand here from the debate, we now have a very vague idea of the difference between the administrative centre, the development centre and so on, because there are no criteria already. Talking about culture having no borders... I am looking forward very much to the debate here, in the troupe, with the story of the people of the National Union, what is the plan for supporting this cultural and historical aspect; how much money will go to the region of Selia to support its culture; where the Ministry of Culture will take this money and whose annual budget will for the first time provide for it. Once again, I support all this. On the other hand, I look forward to a person who will tell you (if you vote against the municipality of Selija) here on the side of KPV LV, what is the difference between the principles of establishing the municipality of Lejaskurzeme and the principles of establishing the municipality of Selija. Where is the difference between the people of Selija and those of Lower Courland? Is this the borderline of politics? Of course, I look forward to you, KPV LV, a person who could speak. At least one. I hope that is the case. In general, however, I think that this vote will show the coalition's position. And it will be the first signal to Latvian citizens, what are the real principles of coalition parties, voting for the creation or destruction of separate regions within the framework of this reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U124	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U125	Colleagues! I call for support for this, 117. - a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Selia. I think that when we decide on this area, we must take account of the cultural and historical territory and these aspects. I understand that arguments may exist for someone that cannot bring together several municipalities in a region where there are not enough large cities. The speakers from this region, the cultural-historical region, have come... and, to be honest, Like Sandy Riekstins. And I'm surprised how terrible it is to hate its home country so that it can express itself here and does not support the creation of the municipality of Selia and what the people want. Here I would also like to mention that, if we look at this cultural and historical aspect, there may, of course, also be several districts and the people of this tradition can also be supported by cooperation between several regions. But here we redesigned the fact of history... the cultural and historical map of Latvia. Why do I want to emphasise this fact? Because the President of Latvia also indicates in the letter he has sent that however, there are historical Latvian lands listed in Article 3 of the Satversme and that its limits must be taken into account as far as possible. I will still say here what the President of Latvia said: “This is why a little surprised is the fact that, in the context of the administrative territorial reform of the historical Latvian land, there is no mention at all. I believe that the cultural and historical identity of local communities and their sense of belonging to a specific Latvian historical land should also be duly considered when determining the boundaries of the cities and municipalities to be formed.” It seems to me that the creation of a region that coincides with these cultural and historical boundaries is directly increasing the patriotism of these people, the awareness that they belong to that region and not as it is now. We offer this option, for example, to return to the map of the Soviet Socialist Republic of Latvia. Yes, exactly so, by adding Ilūkste region to Daugavpils region. It's not history. At one time, there were two districts in the countries of Selia, so there was Ilūkste novads and the novads of Jēkabpils. Yeah, they were all the seeds of the land -- two regions. They could cooperate with each other. But, well, it can't be that we now say that part of Selija, where the seeds live, we will add to Latgale. It seems to me, however, that the traditions that we had in the 20th-30th century should be taken into account, as well as what we can do today. Today, we can decide for ourselves, we do not have to listen to Mr Moscow. But it seems that for some more Moscow is sitting right in the head, so this is also the offer.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U126	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U127	I would still like to emphasise in relation to those mentioned by Mr Riekstins, the resident of Selia, six of the poor - it is very wrong to say so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You heard what I said at all?” ) In my opinion, the creation of the municipality of Selia shows that it would be a strong economic unit. What it is important to point out is that, in any case, in the government's offer, these municipalities would remain a grantable municipality. All as one. And in this case, the municipality of Sēlia would be a strong economic entity with historical traditions of cooperation, with a clear cultural and historical belonging. What else would I like to mention on this proposal? If you think that these territories will be economically strong, united, then the State Audit Office has also - and you forget to mention this - said that the previous reform increased administrative expenditure by three percent. It increased, not reduced.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U128	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U129	Hello, colleagues! I will also ask you to support the creation of the municipality of Selia, and I think this is one of the good examples where six regions have agreed on joint development and sought development opportunities. You may like or dislike the chosen centre - Guest - this, of course, would be a subject for discussion, but the choice of the municipality of Selija should, in my opinion, be supported. That's what Mr. Riekstin said. It is nice that you, as a coalition, have decided to listen to the survey conducted by the people of Nera. I would like you then to listen to all those surveys. And about one third of the municipalities have sent us (at least what I have received - more than one third of the letters sent by the municipalities) objections to this reform, which also mentions the results of various surveys. And they are not ultimately in favour of this reform. Then why is it only Nereta? And according to what criteria do you then choose to listen to the survey often and not to listen to it? In my opinion, it would also be wrong to talk about the poor, who can or cannot do something, because no one has become a poor person in good life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U130	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U131	Colleagues, I will once again explain the poor. It was an example and a comparison. ( Insight: “What do you compare? ” ) And we have now turned it into a region called the poor. Well, it wasn't! If we are talking about these population surveys, I only mentioned this because the members of the opposition come and say that the citizens have decided it. Well, people have not decided that. Next. I'm not... I'm not against Selia County. Stop lying! I haven't said that at any time. This is about the way it happens. And I'll tell you a little bit about what's going on. One of the arguments is that we don't need to go to Jēkabpils, but God doesn't give it. Jēkabpils will get it money. Because there's one Member in Ogre playing slots. And yet... These are the arguments that these county leaders tell me. One. Second. Why is Viesite? ‘ Well, we looked around in the middle, so it's Guesty!” Well, this is also not an argument to take. I'm talking about this. ( Internouncing call.) I'm in favour of Selia County. I said, there is still an open question to the third reading, but not about this form and form, as happens, colleagues. Residents of such mathematics, where one has strengthened everyone and tells how good it will be, without any justification... Has anyone asked, let's say, the same thing in Ilūkste, the businessmen they want? I'll make a joke: they want Latgale. Entrepreneurs want Latgale! So stop manipulating! Stop manipulating these things! You draw something out of context and come and teach. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “A where are your arguments?” ) Well, take this more specifically and then come and tell! Everyone turns out to know Selia suddenly! Even Regina Sely knew! Good job! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U132	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U133	Dear colleagues, The project to create the municipality of Selia, about which... which we are building right here is an interesting project, but in that case we should decide together what we are building. If we create a political map, an administrative map, that is one approach. If we are building political economics, that is a different approach. If we create an economic map, this is the third approach. So there should be an understanding for ourselves of what we want in this case. Talking about administrative and development centres. You forgive me, not always and not everywhere this coincides; in the vast area, development centres could be very different from administrative centres. Well, one very bright example. In the United States, the administrative center is known to be Washington. Could anyone object to me that this is not the center of development? In the United States... It's not. It is not a center of development; it is an administrative centre. That is why there needs to be clarity here, and I would propose a ruling coalition, which is debating among itself today on this proposal on several occasions, perhaps in the vote. If it is positive, let us create the municipality and its functions, and let us clarify the rest to the third reading, otherwise it is again, forgive, empty embarrassment.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U134	Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U135	Yes, I would like to draw attention to the fact that not everything is the truth, as Sandis Riekstins says. There were entrepreneurs from Selia in the Commission. For example, from Ilūkste was Mr. Sharapov, who works not in agriculture but in metal processing, who is ready to invest enough funds and to develop business, and he was in favour of the creation of the municipality of Selia. I would therefore say that this proposal should be supported. It is in the interests of both entrepreneurs, it is in the interests of citizens, it is also taking into account our cultural and historical values accordingly. Therefore, please do not lie. Mr Riekstins, if you support this, vote in favour of this proposal (and then it can be clarified and improved at third reading) rather than now vote against. So that I call on you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U136	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U137	Yes, honourable colleagues, we are always talking about having centres for development, where we will unite and put still in place. Just dry facts about what the development index is. Of course, development indices are worse, away from Riga, because the only development centre is Riga. For comparison: Island Municipality Development Index is minus 0,281, Daugavpils Municipality - minus 1,1, Jēkabpils District - minus 0,977. Here is the question how Jēkabpils plans to develop the Island Municipality if its development index is already 3.5 times worse than the Island Municipality. Therefore, colleagues, well, I would call for support, however, for this municipality of Selia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U138	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U139	In the Commission, the 117th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U140	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 117. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 17, it's against 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U141	118. - the proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņa. It provides for the maintenance of the county of Koknese in its existing territory. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U142	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U143	Well, colleagues, let's see! The Koknese Municipality Council has sent a letter to the Saeima, it has been signed by the Chairman of the Council. At its extraordinary meeting on 17 June 2019, the Council decided to conduct a population survey “Do you support the preservation of Koknese Municipality as an independent administrative territory of the Republic of Latvia?” . The results of the survey. 90 percent of the votes... 90.2 percent supported - yes, the county of Koknese must remain a separate administrative territory. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Benhen-Beeken and the deposit. A. Geidan: “How much participated?” ) The question is, of course, not so... the question is, of course, not that simple either. If you're interested in the number of people with voting rights, let's see how you're going to behave... When we look at the Ischile municipality. In this case, the population of Koknese municipality is five thousand. Of course, this forecast will decrease in the future. Unfortunately, I do not have any belief that this forecast will not change in the future even after the reform. Because reform is not accompanied by any policy to reverse this negative trend in any way. As for Koknese, I would like to say that this was indeed an example, in which the head of the municipality also expressed a clear position at the committee meeting that, if there is a reuniting arrangement, in their view, that direction in the direction of Aizkraukle, which was expressed by the chairman of the council, is to be supported. Koknese novads is developing very successfully, in my opinion - very successfully! - even without this reform. The question, of course, is: what will these cooperation mechanisms be for the municipality of Aizkraukle following the reform? In my view, the newly created municipality of Aizkraukle is not the most successful scenario in general. But adding Koknese to Aizkraukle - there I see logic. I have withdrawn this particular proposal because I believe that, despite the fact that there is a vote on the part of the population, it is logical, colleagues, to add Koknese municipality to the Aizkraukle district. I therefore withdrawn this particular proposal. But what is important is to give citizens answers to questions about how future governance will go. So far, this has not been done in any way by VARAM or by the head of commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U144	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U145	Thank you to Mr Valaiņš for his constructive explanation. Next. 119. - the proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņa. It is envisaged to maintain the region within its current territory. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U146	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U147	Colleagues! Decision of an unrare local government council. The opinion of the residents of a municipality shall not be legitimately expressed in full terms by anyone other than the municipal council or its chairman... When assessing the procedure of the Constitutional Court, how the Constitutional Court assessed who is entitled to give this opinion and whom should be consulted. If we look at it, on 28 November 2019 the decision of the municipality of Nereta has been taken and the results of the survey of the residents of Nereta on the territorial division of Latvia have also been mentioned. 54 percent of the local authorities surveyed supported the model offered to Varis for a merger with Aizkraukle Municipality. By openly voting (no six, no, no, no, no, no), Nereta Municipality Council decided to support the merger of Nereta with Aizkraukle, Jaunjelgavas, Skrīvers, Koknese and Pļaviņas. In the absence of implementation of paragraph 1 of this Decision, support must be given to the merger of the county of Nereta with the regions located in the historical territory of Selija in a joint region of Selija by agreement on an administrative centre. Taking into account the views and assumptions expressed by the municipalities of Sēlija Municipality Association, support the decision to establish Sēlija Planning Region with the centre in Jēkabpils. That is, namely, the second level of governance. The decision to send the decision to the responsible parliamentary commission. Further, after this decision, there was already a decision of the Saeima Commission, where this municipal council of Nereta had already submitted to the Commission a decision that they had established the municipality of Selija as an independent municipality and had already agreed on where the administrative centre would be located. The centre of development certainly remains... in this case Jēkabpils. That's... There can be no discussion about this. In this case, the municipality of Nereta has agreed to the reform, but in essence offers a different map of the reform. I have also withdrawn this proposal because it is clear, after consulting the local government concerned, that they are in agreement with the reform. The question is only about the implementation of the reform. In this case, I withdrew this proposal. I will submit to the third reading a configured proposal on how the territorial division would best be for the Municipality of Nereta.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U148	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U149	So the next proposal. 120. - the proposal tabled by Member Viktoras Valaiņa. It shall provide for the maintenance of the Pļaviņa district within its existing territory. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U150	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U151	With regard to meadows, I'll tell you how it is. I think... I have worked with Pļaviņa Municipality for a long time and, in my view, Pļaviņa Municipality has always been a member of Jēkabpils. And so the ambition to the city of Jēkabpils has always been expressed. In terms of resource planning, also in terms of road financing planning, in terms of investment policy planning, the link with the municipality of Jēkabpils, not only the political link, which was for the regional party of Jēkabpils at the time, but also practical considerations... has always been very closely connected. At the moment, this offer from the government is moving in the other direction - towards Aizkraukle municipality. In my opinion, there is no real logic for this. That's my personal opinion. In my view, Pļaviņas novads should also be more successfully developed in another configuration. I will also submit this proposal, my fellow Members, and thank the leadership of the Pļaviņas district that it also came with its constructive vision of how to develop this region further. In my opinion, listening to the decisions of local authorities and municipal councils, the decisions of local authorities, population surveys and evaluation not only economically, but also from other considerations, including cultural and previous cooperation considerations, it is possible to succeed... to arrive at a successful outcome of the reform. I have also withdrawn this proposal and will submit the third reading in another vision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U152	Thank you, so the proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U153	121. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal to preserve the existing administrative... in areas. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U154	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U155	The municipal charter requires certain arrangements for decisions relating to the areas concerned in the context of municipal reform. And these arrangements require that local authorities be heard, that they be consulted and that they receive, in principle, a response from the reform drivers. What proved in the process of driving this reform is that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development had carried out this really very important component as a fiction. The proof of the election is also that the Legal Bureau of the Saeima indicated (after the Saeima Commission had already voted at first reading) that the Commission will have to carry out consultations. That is why I tabled 119 proposals - for each municipality separately - so that these consultations do indeed take place within the relevant Commission. Unfortunately, the Commission in question has, in very many cases, failed to provide answers to the specific municipalities, as their continued independence will be ensured. As regards the decision of Skrīver Municipality Council. In this case too... The screens were already established in 2009 as a separate municipality. Now it works. Yes, it is true that the municipality of Skrīveru is a beneficiary of the municipal finance equalisation fund. Of course, this is the case. The municipality has cooperation with surrounding areas in many different areas. And here I would like to mention one example of the extent of cooperation between municipalities today, how wide it is when we look at the e-environment. In the E-environment, Ventspils Municipality cooperates with about a hundred municipalities in Latvia. And this is one example of the fact that there are no limits to this cooperation between municipalities. And the worst thing that is offered with this reform is that... At the time when municipalities cooperate, it is immediately said that this means that they are unable to fulfil their functions. Cooperation is designed to better fulfil its autonomous functions. And even after the reform, municipalities will continue to cooperate... will also operate beyond its own borders. In the case of screens... After that, when the Commission also heard the management of Skrīvers Municipality... I believe that this proposal should be withdrawn and that it should be further incorporated into the alternative proposal by creating a better further configuration of the Skrīver district, creating a better division of administrative territories than the one currently proposed for VARAM.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U156	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U157	122. - a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance, which provides for the exclusion of Saulkrasti parishes, Saulkrasti city and Sēja parish from the newly created district of Adažu. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U158	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U159	Colleagues! The head of the municipality of Adazi, upon arrival to the Commission, made it clear that after this reform... concerning administrative costs... These costs could, on the contrary, also increase. The State Audit Office also pointed out the same in a way, saying that this study of the Bank of Latvia in terms of benefits is too scattered. There's no concrete... in this study, moreover, the cities of the republics are not considered at all. This proposal provides for... in principle marks the road map to the Sunshore (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... to the creation of the Saulkrasti region. And, in my opinion, this road map, which has been marked, is not in line with what the Minister himself has said. And even though there's that great desire to keep the Suncracker region as such... I, too, support the idea that Saulkrasti region should be preserved, but - is it therefore necessary to destroy other neighbouring regions? I cannot agree with this approach. In my view, this proposal calls for an explanation here today, from this troupe, also from the Group of the National Alliance, as you see... Similarly, as we explained our proposals on Selia. This proposal also requires clarification because, however, you are also, in a way, dividing successful regions by separating the parishes. So, my fellow Members, I call for this proposal to be the subject of a broader debate so that the applicants explain the meaning, validity and other issues of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U160	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U161	Well, I am very, very much waiting for the representatives of the Group of the National Alliance here... Come with the story of geopoliticals! Well, please tell us, a geopolitical object is located in Saulkrasti parish. Is it or is it not the port of Skulte? And what strategic goods are planned to be introduced through Skulte port? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Fish!” ) Is there really a geo-policy involved? For in the parish of Soe there is a part of Adazi. So, then, will the newly formed region of Saulkrasti also have a special strategic role to play? And what strategy does this involve? Well, please tell us, because otherwise we can't explain to Latvian citizens why we have the 40th municipality - in a very strange look, without any criteria, without telling us about what kind of business this newly established region of Saulkrasti will develop and what geopolitical considerations are involved in it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: “You would like to know that!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U162	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U163	This is about the Saulkrasti, as you understand. You must be aware of what I will talk about in the context of Saulkrasti. If Dombrava's house were in Garkalne, then we wouldn't have Saulkrasti novads... Or the Garkalne would be attached to the Sunkrasti... Well, something like that. That is how you reform it. This must be discussed all the time. Repeat and repeat! In fact, Saulkrasti should be added to Adaži. And we need to discuss the fact that perhaps the Garkalne must also be combined with Adaži. Because there is a common infrastructure and, in essence, people live like a border town, sometimes wondering themselves whether they are in Garkalne district or in Adazi district. But building a special parish for Mr Dombrava - I think this is not a state action. I think that such action will not increase the well-being of the population either. I think that such action will not lead to an increase in the population of the country. I think it will only increase the personal well-being of Member Dombrava. It must not come to reform! I have both spoken with humor and seriously about this, and I call on Mr Dombrava himself to climb up and be a public servant. To be a public servant is to say it's a mistake! It is a mistake to create such a Saulkrasti municipality. And I'll be the first coalition to act like a stateman and give up the idea. My refusal as an example will show that the choice in favour of building a district will be determined not by the location of my home, but by reason, logic and common interests of all the people of the country. I'm calling you, John. You've always said that you're national, that you're patriot, that you're fighting for our people, for Latvians. Get up in the pod and show me you're an example! And I will also be an example. I will first come with a proposal to name a Latvian street in your surname... as proof of respect for the fact that you are a stateman and don't just look at the prism - where your house is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U164	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U165	I am not of the Saulkrasti, but in some way the matter of the Saulkrasti also affected my place of residence in all this casks around the region. And I would like to say once again that the logical criteria that should have been used in preparing the reform are not taken into account here - according to which principles we are building in the regions. During the creation of the Saulkrasti district one plan... I don't know who drew it... was so far off that part of Krimulda... And the Low Door should be like a note... Why? ( Intercretion: “A sword! The sword was!” ) Because it's just that... I think it looks like... We put something on a pencil. I would like to say that there is no logic there. Then we could also almost come to a situation where you will stand on the edge of the Gauja valley, look across the Gauja valley to Sigulda and say: we are in the coastal region. That is completely wrong! There, too, should have been clear criteria. I understand Mr. Dombrava, he's fighting for his own municipality. But then let's also look at the history. Indeed, the name could not be ‘Sunkrasti’. Could also be Dombrava municipality, because... There's been cases like this... For example, there's a... part of the meadows in the direction of Jēkabpils... Gostini is in the direction of the Crosspil. And the Gostins had a lot of names. The Gostins were called Zarn City and also Trentenberg. And why? Because there was a Swedish general staying for some time with his troops. Well, I think this is a historical fact, too. Dombrava cherishes the creation of the Saulkrasti region. Let's call it Dombrava County! It is clear that such a proposal should be tabled for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U166	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U167	Saulkrasti - it has been one of the rare municipalities that have paid money to the equalisation fund for all years and maintained even the big cities... Like Jelgava, Liepaja. Saulkrasti by territorial development index, which describes how successfully the municipality has been able to develop, has been among Top 10 municipalities in Latvia. The population has been stable in contrast to other places in Latvia. In the city, particularly after clarification of the borders, the number is likely to reach about six thousand. There are as many as 50 thousand seasonally staying in the region - not tourists, but people who occasionally live in this territory of the municipality. The municipality has been able to develop the port successfully. As a result, cargo turnover has decreased for other major city ports (Dep. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) The cargo turnover of the Saulkrasti port has grown year after year - and mostly at the expense of local cargoes. If we look at the functioning of the municipality so far, we see that it has provided education, culture and security services in a much wider area. Most of Skulte’s children study in Saulkrasti District Schools. The same is true for children in the Sēja district; they also study there in schools, attend sports events, and so on. The creation of such a district would certainly enable the municipality to develop more effectively. Where did the problems begin with such a proposal? Where the problems with it began... Why could there not be a new regional centre in Latvia, a new municipality? The problem is that Mr. Zemmer, who heads the Limbaži District Council, thought this to be wrong, and therefore the ZZS suddenly passionately opposed the wish of a municipality to develop further. And the whole story about the... I am sorry, could I combine the two times of the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U168	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U169	If this discussion seemed to be rather mooting at the outset that the creation of the region is closely linked to the gas project, it does not even withstand any criticism, given that it would be necessary to determine the status of an object of national interest in order to carry out such a major project. And this project would also stretch in several municipalities. But... I think even about this thing... has believed in even... not only a few victims of conspiracy theories, but even the Gazprom Group, which sees that the formation of such a municipality is supported by Jānis Dombrava, who is listed on the Russian black list. And they start to think, "What if there's... Is that so? Well, then let's make the command go out loud to our satellite party." And, unfortunately, that is what is happening at the moment. If so far the opposition was very active in the work of the commission for one, for the other, for the third municipality, that they must be preserved and created within logical limits, then this is an exceptional case that shows the dual face.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U170	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U171	At the end of the day, we have touched on what is called the “Gulf of Great Britain”. Here should be listened to what Mr Kazinovsky said: that, when it comes to administrative large areas, there should still be boundaries based on a number of factors, a number of economic indicators, and then a great deal of external borders, which... inside can and should see the internal distribution. I am not talking here, in this case, against or about the creation of the Saulkrasti region, not at all, Mr. Dombrava. And, to be honest, what you say is that it's a Gazprom rubor - well, it's a sew with white threads. But I'm talking about logic. Yes, really, within the Great Highway could have been created... could have changed the boundaries of the regions... New sites may also be created. That could be the case, too. But it requires a different approach, which is not here today. And that's what we're talking about. All the arguments that Mr Dombrava referred to, let us say, to an even greater extent... they double... if we are talking about size, it applies to Babite. If we're talking about Jurmala, here I can comfort Mr. Gobzem, there's all right with names. Jurmala became a metropolitan city because there the number of railway stations is higher than in Moscow and Paris, taking together... But one of the stations is already named after... Well, what's at the concert hall. It can therefore also be assessed. Other criteria, other approach. Then we can also objectively assess the proposal that came from Mr Dombrava, not from the National Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U172	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U173	Colleagues! In this proposal, I would not like to refer to Saulkrasti and Sej, which are offered to be removed from the district of Adaži, but to Carnikava, which is proposed to be left in the district of Adaži. All that Mr Dombrava has just mentioned about the Saulkrasti is even more relevant to Carnikava. Carnikava is meant to be combined with Adaži. You know, it's going to be like trying to mix water with oil - there's no monolith of liquid. Carnikava is a holiday district where the main activity is on holiday. Ādaži is an industrial military district where the main activity is in relation to jobs - 76 percent of Carnikava's working population already lives in Riga... works in Riga, I am sorry, and there is a great reason for this. Because, for example, communication, transport (rail, bus) - all this is related to Riga. That's logical. If someone says that this way some problems will be solved, for example, administrative costs will be reduced... either, the administrative costs will not be reduced, as already about seven per cent of Adazi and Carnikava are devoted to administrative costs. It's very similar. If you remember the previous reform... if you think about administrative costs at all... they increased by three per cent after the reform, and not decreased. It could be assumed that the number of pupils in schools will increase. Well, that's a goal in other municipalities. This is not the case. Both in Ādaži and Carnikava, the number of pupils is too high for the infrastructure that is currently available. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col’s intermediate call.) More than 200 children are waiting in Carnikava for the kindergarten too. And now we're going to put these two oversaturated municipalities together. The population in Carnikava has increased by 47 percent over 10 years - unlike the rest of Latvia. Colleagues! The non-merger of municipalities does not mean that they cannot cooperate. Already now, for example, Carnikava is building a group house to provide social services not only on its own borders... within their own boundaries. Mellorisation systems are a cross-border service or infrastructure... And there are some examples of this. There is no logic, and the Carnikava people themselves mention it. The people of Carnikava support the reform, but 85 percent of them do not support the merger with Aži or any other... some other county. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Cols: "On the proposal! This is about Saulkrasti!” ) Therefore... If you turn off Saulkrasti and Soy, you must also turn off Carnikava. Rather then really Garkalni could be added to the district of Ādazi, where at least... Even the Church of Garkalne is located in the district of Adazi, and the road is one. I live on Buculta Street; it's invisible... The Garkalne is invisibly moving into the district of Ādazi.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U174	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U175	I would like to address the concerns of Mr Dombrava. The STECF does not oppose the establishment of the Saulkrasti region. The STECF is opposed to you mixing outside the Limbaži region. ZZS doesn't like that. And with regard to what you said... Indeed, all these arguments apply even more forcefully to the district of Carnikava. It's exactly the same thing... I don't care. But it is important here to mention the progress of their consideration by the Commission. What you don't remember here - Seja novads. The Sēja region is conceptually about adding to the Adaži municipality, and even the council has decided they are on reform - and in the direction of Adaži. That is why my question: why was it not respected? If you need those Saulkrasti, the Saulkrasti could be left alone, just like the Livuns alone. Saulkrasti would also... In essence, economic indicators, by adding Soy, would not change, but soy region was not fully heard by the Commission, and their decision was in a very different direction - to Adažis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U176	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U177	A number of remarks about what I heard from this platform. Mr Valaiņš mentioned a moment ago that the Commission had not consulted the local authorities, as should be in line with the European Charter for Local Authorities. Well, that's why I'm absolutely... I really cannot agree. We discussed with every municipality that had arrived. Fully all municipalities were invited when the relevant issues were discussed, they had the opportunity to express their views, we exchanged views, and the Commission came together to the decisions that have been reflected in the document at the moment. If we are talking about population surveys, the opposition here is very pleased to drag and pull in different cuts, how... how the people have decided. And yes, really most of the... the majority of the local government population, as well as the municipalities themselves, have decided that they want to remain in the areas where they currently exist. And if you're talking about, for example, the mentioned Carnikava Municipality, where 85 percent have voted to preserve the territory... But how many participated in this survey? 9.5 per cent of the population living in the municipality participated in this survey. Do you think this is a sufficiently representative figure that reflects the views of all the residents of the municipality? I doubt it. Likely, let us talk to you. — Dep. V. Valainis: “You have another survey?” ) on the results of the survey elsewhere. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Make your own!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U178	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U179	Dear Mr. Plesh! In my opinion, it is not right to speak in favour or in favour of a poll... from a point of view, as you did, how many people participated or did not, until you have created a mechanism to listen to the citizens as much as possible. For now it seems that whatever is done, you don't want to listen to what citizens or local government leaders say, you only follow political motives. And I call for this proposal not to be supported, because the municipality of Carnikava has expressed its opinion that they do not want (Dep. R. Coll: “I support!” ) to be added to no other... none of the municipalities, because the municipality of Carnikava is self-sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U180	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U181	Dear colleagues, I had the opportunity to be present at the committee meeting, where, as Mr Ples said, a discussion took place. I would like to say, Mr. Ples, we do not have to climb into a platform and lie about the debate! The municipalities were heard. Members and the chairman of the commission thanked you. Questions asked to the Ministry, to which no one could answer... Members didn't even think... ask questions, just said thank you. Dear colleagues, If this is a discussion (interfaces.) Mr. Plesz, when he comes and climbs the platform and tells about the discussions, lies openly to the whole of Latvian society.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U182	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U183	I would like to say right away that surveys really show people's attitude to one or the other problem, people are by their nature sufficiently conservative. But it imposes an additional obligation on those who want to dictate their way of life and living. They need to find additional arguments to convince them that this reform will certainly lead to happiness and that it will be happiness not only for those who worked on the draft law, but also for those who are covered by the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U184	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U185	Mr. Plies! Citizens' views must be taken into account - especially if it is combined with quite clear arguments from the local authorities about why one or the other decision should be taken in the same way or the other. And note that in SKDS survey 53 percent of Latvians are against reform, even though you multiply the benefits of it every day! You feel that you are doing this. — Dep. S. Riekstins: “What is SKDS?” )... and try to tell everyone that life will be better, but you can’t explain with a single sentence how it will improve people’s lives. You repeat three words all the time that the reform is “needed for the development of Latvia”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: Development/About! ) However, this is not enough, and the explanation is too weak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U186	The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U187	Hello, colleagues! This proposal provides for such an important foundation for the establishment of the Saulkrasti district. And at first... next, I will also discuss a proposal that I myself have tabled... on the territory of the municipality of Kandava, as it has been so far. When I presented this proposal, I, like a rural guy, was perhaps a little shy about it, and I think there are criteria and Candava may not really meet... But those criteria... no longer exists. And then I began to speak. ... next, the discussion started about the absence of a development centre for Kandava, like for other regions. I see -- oh, there's this Suncrastic idea! The coalition partners also support. And so also the Saulkrasti do not have this development center if. (Applause) So that I'm very... in an uplifted mood. And if we support this further... So that I can really see that hope, too... At the end of the hope and light tunnel... You candid. I think we are also in favour of this district. Mr Ples (I heard it here, I was not here yesterday) also said that there is more force if all the eggs are not in the same basket. So I certainly support you all. So we support Saulkrasti and go on! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: “No boy from the fields!” Thank you very much. Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U188	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. ( Intermediate call: “Aldi, I don’t have a house there! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U189	I can't understand... There is, of course, this reform - each Member per district, if. We started with Dombrav, then we'll go on with Wittenberg... There it is, plus minus... I didn't make a proposal for myself... really, because it was hard for me to choose. Since I have a declared place of residence, let's say, at one address, but I live at another address, then... I'm more modest... so modest. I'd be ready to join you in combining it all with the Adajos County... But, seriously speaking, I do not believe that there is a state-run principle for each Member on a district basis. Clearly, we will get less than 119... especially given that there are 100 Members in Parliament. Clearly, we will get even less, because, as a rule, there are less than 100 if. ( Interface: No opposition, only for the position!) ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U190	The speaking time is over. Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U191	Colleagues! In this case, however, I also... I'm not going to talk about Dombrava, but I'm going to talk about... for Soy. Well, in this case, adding maybe and... combined with Adaži, where... also initially there was such a desire of the people of the Sēja district... It would be logical, because there is the Adaži landfill, which is now in several regions. If this military territory were in the same district, it's all right! But we remember this huge landfill in the middle! And, by the way, there are people living closer to Sigulda, closer to Krimulda. And if we are to reform, then we should also look logically. It is also possible that areas should have been divided. And here I would also like to say that the novads of Sejas conducted an operational population survey - from 31 January to 4 February - on the addition to the Saulkrasti region... together with Skulti. And 82 percent were against such a proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U192	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U193	Mr. Dombrava, I don't care where you live... until you live well. And I do not believe that you are moving this proposal because you live in one region or another. But what such the most attentive listeners have noticed in your speech is that you... You probably called Skulte's port Saulkrasti. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Dombrava: “She is there!” ) Well, I guess this fact - on Skulti and Saulkrasti - makes us think more about in which direction we are then moving like more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U194	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U195	Proposal 122 was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U196	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 122. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the National Alliance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U197	Unanimous. Proposals 123, 124 and 125 address one issue: adding the Garkalne parish to the newly created district of Ādazi. The proposal was tabled by the Group of the National Alliance. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U198	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U199	First. I have to say that I am in favour of adding Garkalne to the district of Adazi because... At least the place where I myself... This will be subjective... the place where I myself lived and... I'm going home, I'm going home every day. I've always been here (Interior call) ... I always have to cross these borders, and I don't really understand which side of the road is Ādaži, which has Garkalne region. That seems logical to me. But there's another thing that's much more important. I understood why Raivis Dzintars did not respond to my call to decide as a stateman on Saulkrasti and on everything else, on Jelgava... and in that spirit. And that's the answer... Why should the Brīvības Boulevard not be called Dzintari Boulevard? Because we already have the Dzintari station. In principle Raivis Dzintars has achieved his own, huh? We have a Dzintary Station. Consequently, the aim of becoming a public servant and acting in the interests of the citizens of the country as a whole is not yet in fact the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U200	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U201	Dear President, Honourable Members! Whatever I want to support the work of the commission, this is the moment I have to say that, in theory, these two regions... The Garms cannot be taken away from Adaži. And I'll give you 10 reasons why. Well, the first one is irrelevant - more than 80 percent of the Garkalne's population has voted for wanting to be at Adaži's, but... Well, surveys, as you understand, are not important. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “It doesn’t matter!” ) We do not take that into account, of course. ( Mr Bergmanis: in the name of coalition stability!) ) I'm ironic. Second. Total transport. That's already a little more serious reason. ‘ Ekspress–Ādaži” serves both Ādažu and Garkalne parish. Common watercourse system - the third reason. ‘ Adazi Water’. Common sewage system also - the same “Adaži Vandens”... Then followed by the most interesting - the Garkalne church is located in the territory of Adazi. ( Insight: “That’s it! ”) ) The fifth reason. Garkalne Municipality has no cemetery. If you separate this form and add the Garkalni to the Ulbroka, it is obvious that those who belong there will have to enter into any agreements with the Adaži in order to settle these matters in some way, let us say. Six. There are two congregations that are also located... actually most... two churches. And both churches are located... One is the church of Adazi, you know, at Baltezer, the other is the church of Garkalne, but it is also located in the territory of Adazi. Well, maybe it doesn't matter if? How will Baltezer's village be divided? Courage again! This is the seventh reason because half of Baltezer’s village is located in Garkalne, and half of Garkalne’s village is located in Ādaži. Should I be artificially divided in some way? Next reason. How will the Great and Small Baltezers be managed if the current border between the two regions goes between the Great Baltezers in the middle and the Garkalne district has little access to the Small Baltezers, the beach? So there's got to be some sort of division again. Of course, Ādaži puts the fish's little ones in, so apparently the region of Ulbroka will be able to catch them there, put nets... or in some way... And the last one is education. Not only at the Waldorf School, but also at the new primary school, many people in Garkalne are studying and applying for it. So this, I think, is a big mistake. And by no means can this happen. And even if we now have something like that... let's rot, I doubt that the President will sign it as a rule. ( Internouncing call.) We can destroy all this law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U202	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U203	Yeah... This proposal is similar to the next few proposals. And Mr. Kirstein already took me out of my mouth. And in addition to Mr. Kirštein's words of clean... dry facts show that about 8,500 people are currently registered in Garkalne district, of which about five thousand, or most of the population, live in the immediate vicinity of Adazi district. Baltezers, Buculi, Garkalne, Suži, Bergy... Either they have a common sense, as I said, of communal farming, transport and so on... Another part of this population, or about 2700, lives a little further - along the A4 highway. These are Windows, Riversciems, Dogs, which are just a little away from the district of Adaži. It would be more logical then, of course, to add these settlements to either Riga or the same Adažiai. Since we do not add to Riga, it is clear that it would be logical to add Adaži. But this is just one aspect. In addition to what Mr Kirštein said, there is a railway station called Garkalne in Garkalne, which is four to six kilometres from the village of Ādaži. And Adam's village in this... Let's say, in this part of the Daugava, in the northern part of Riga, there is the largest development centre. And I see that, in the future, this place will continue to be the most progress and development in the area. And it should be noted that Ādaži is like the middle between the Carnikava railway station and the Garkalne railway station. So logically: in the development of both railway stations - both Carnikava and Garkalne - it would be in Adaži's interest in the development of these stations. But now that we put a line in the middle between these two regions, this station, or multimodal... Let us say that the development of a transport hub will simply not be possible. Well, that's why I... personally, I support both this proposal and my future proposal... Proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U204	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U205	At the start of the discussion on administrative territorial reform, we heard Gobzem's reflections on where the house is. Now I realize that Gobzem has a house in Garkalne district. I don't know what condition and what and how, but... At least he has finally come to the conclusion that everyone lives somewhere. I congratulate him on that. This proposal. Yes, Garkalne region has a very specific nature in the sense that different... On both sides of the highway there are many villages that... everyone is on their way. And it would be only logical that the villages on the side of Garkalne, namely, Garkalne, Baltezers and others, would be together with Āžiai. On the other side of the highway... Could definitely be in accordance with Ulbroka County. We have now decided that we will not divide. That is, below the level of the parish we do not divide into two or more parts. And that's also why there's this debate right now. I believe that it would only be right that no matter whether there is a solution for Adaži... In particular, Garkalne is with Ādaži or Garkalne is with Ulbroka district - that by 2025, we would find a solution to the issue of clarifying the areas of these villages and to which municipality these particular villages are subject. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “You will vote for yourself?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U206	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U207	There is a certain problem here, colleagues, and its author is sitting there. It is the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development! That is why, today, such a debate has taken up on this proposal at all. The minister is responsible for the fact that he's ever been born here... The municipality of Ulbroka, and it has not been quite logical to explain why such a region has been created at all. You are now very well theoretical about how the municipality would be better and rational... which direction is in the direction. In my opinion, it also shows how undervalued this reform of administrative territories, settlements, is. There's a lot of talking... are people living in specific areas, are people who think about particular areas, but are people who draw the thoughts of the particular territory... And in this case, we should first know what the council of this particular territory thinks about and whether the council in its decision, which she has sent to the commission responsible... what is then said there. Garkalne Municipality Council... let us, in substance, reject the fact that it is against reform, but in the case of reform, it has been mentioned very specifically here that they would like to join the Inčukalns Municipality. And in this case, it is a completely different offer from what you are talking about here, and also a justification for why. Both districts have a similar territorial structure. The territory is geographically uniform. The total population exceeds 15 000. The same is true in the criteria of its own minister... It's enough... Number of primary education institutions provided plus one secondary school, setting up an effective network of educational institutions... road infrastructure is arranged and so on. Here are several examples... several... many arguments. The most important of these is that Garkalne novads and Inčukalns novads would not turn to the Constitutional Court to challenge this reform. But my colleagues, the interest in Garkalne district, I think, is so great for just one small reason. And that's why it's important... look at how, in fact, this area could work more effectively, taking into account all aspects that have not been assessed so far. Because all the other territories have stunned colleagues... For one reason only. Three and a half million municipalities in the Equalisation Fund - that is, what is paid by Garkalne novads. And this is really very interesting amount of funding that would be useful for any administrative area. One of the largest payers is the Garkalne region. And that's how he gets it. Assessment of the substance of this debate, too, to date, as it really is... on the provision of functions... has not been evaluated. And the Minister has said nothing of his own.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U208	Thank you. Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U209	In several speeches, Mr. Schmidt called for such a certain analogy or association with building houses. In this case, we are again at the same stage. Because where is the construction idea that we're talking about, together with the construction project? We are already going to implement this construction project without coordinating with any institution dealing with it. Today we are also trying this project in some way, which has been discussed ten times within 80 hours... in committee sittings... In the ministry before that, there was probably some kind of consultation. Are only the Prime Minister's guest performances in Latvia? It's hard to say, huh? But today we really do try to improve the brother that has been given us. It's not about the fact that the Garkalni can be combined with Adaži or someone else... But where is the principle? I already say: we have to talk about the agglomeration of Great Britain, and only then can we talk about the structure of the agglomeration. Mr Kazinovsky is one hundred percent right that this issue is a primary issue in this law. Second. The issue of this - there are centres for development, there are no centres for development - is secondary. You can call Saulkrasti a development center, it's stupid! Because the development centre around everyone is one - Riga. It's all about Riga. Mārupe - airport, Adažiai - landfill, and so on, and so on. You can already connect Marupe to Adaži... building a tunnel under the Daugava, creating a metro in Riga. Let's solve the investment problem... investment project... jobs and so on. We'll improve transport. But it's not a story. The story is that, once again, we need to return to the main project - what the administrative territory called Great Britain looks like. And it's a ministerial task. It was, it is, and remains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U210	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U211	the novads of Garkalnes, It is also a good example of political decision-making. In fact, this approach should have been different. I have to look... be guided directly by the development and planning of the area. And here I would like to agree with Mr Kirštein that, yes, the Adams are bordering the Garkalni. The church is located in the district of Ādazi, in common streets... But we also need to see that Garkalne region is already large enough. And if we know that Garkalne Municipality Council is located in Riga territory at all, then... we see that the other end, where there are the Riverers, where there are the Dogies... There are Mucenieki next to it, where common streets as well... For you to better get to the territory of Garkalne municipality, to their streets, better drive through the Mucenieki; this is the province of Rozazu. And in this case... If we look at the Riversciems, the Dog and that end... they are closer to Ulbroka, however. Here, I think I should have had to be bold, to have a longer debate, to have a better preparation for this reform. And perhaps the Garkalne region had to be divided. It was to be divided either directly along the Pskov highway or by rail. It's completely logical because the infrastructure... That half of the infrastructure that is near Adaži - it is more together with Adaži, but its infrastructure and its streets and homes, and the population that is closer to Ulbroka and Rozai - they are still more connected to that side. And here I would also like to remind Mr Butane that at all, the railway station you call Garkalni... Yes, it is really called Garkalne, but in 2011 it was renamed Garkalne railway station. That was the Rozai railway station at all. So that's... in this case, maybe, also historically, looking... If the Garkalne district is divided and added to one part of the Rozai, in general, the new Ulbroka district should be called the Rozai district. I think that would be logical. And also these historical sites... The cultural history I've been talking about last time... That would be normal. Ādažu novads and Ropažu novads - two large regions with history and all infrastructure... and with the customs of the population to go shopping somewhere... And the infrastructure would also be connected... and... That would be just logical. So, I think, there is a need to look nationalally at this issue, not politically. Now it came like this: Yes, Garkalne is such a delicious couch... and all the regions... Since the Vella will serve in Riga were driven by freightmen from all sides, because everyone wanted it in Riga, the freightmen also drive from all sides, because all the Garkalni want it. And who's gonna get it? We'll see that.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U212	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U213	Colleagues! If the Garkalni don't leave it alone... It could also be fully possible to do so, given that self-sufficient... population is growing, and contributions to the equalisation fund... or don't join Inčukalns... as the municipality itself wants, then... Of course, you have to listen to the people, Mr Kirštein. If 80 percent want to join Adams, they should. And a lot of arguments have already been made here - and quite precisely. I can give you a few examples. Already now Adažiai and Garkalne have joint development projects, such as Baltezers bypass, the Venzi road, and the Adaži bicycle route are included in the Eurocross, one end of which is in Adaži, the other one is in Garkalne. And in the near future it was also planned to review the administrative boundaries between the two municipalities. Now, so naturally, two municipalities are together that there can be no closer. One good example I think is the Alder road, maybe someone knows. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I know!” ) Well, such a completely curved pilot, curved pilot, apparently a very old road, when the horse was driven, so that way is formed. It is interesting that for this road each bend is located in one region or another, about half in the Adžiai and about half in the Garkalne. And imagine if these two municipalities are separate. In my opinion, waste is a very close subject to Mr Pouce. You could even imagine how it would then be organised. Two different cars and one to the right, the other to the left, one to the right, the other to the left. But if seriously, then it really is a logical solution. And I think that it is quite certain right now, too, that municipalities do not object and citizens do not object to unite with Adaži, because until recently, of course, the Adaži City Council was toxic. From 2010 to 2016, Ādaži Municipality Council was in the financial stabilisation process. They made everything go down. The Ministry of Finance had to lead the municipality to get it back on the road, now everything is fine. The debt is only about 13 per cent of the total budget. And I think it's just logical, it's also hospitals... For the population living in the Garkalne, the nearest hospital and health services are in Adaži, which is also one of the most important aspects - where there will be schools where there will be hospitals. So I'm calling for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U214	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U215	Yeah. Thank you. Dear President, Honourable Members! Hospital, swimming pool, cultural house, library - well, that's one thing. But I forgot another important thing. Since at the beginning Garkalne was with Adaži and this region of Ulbroka was not planned at all, a project was developed to build a road to the Garkalne station, and the Minister of Transport Linkait recently visited Araiši. And the main problem is that everyone from the village of Alder in Adaži, as well as from the northern part of the village of Garkalne, travels from the railway to the road of Tallinn in the morning and makes a left turn, although there is a road to the Garkalne station, which can be asphalted. The Ministry of Transport also agreed that there could be a crossing, so that many people would go to the Pskov highway in the morning. And there would be no problem. Here, too, we cannot solve the problem by dividing these regions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U216	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U217	As the salt departs from the global concept that we are arguing about, administrative reforms as such... There's two levels or different... we could look at how certain issues are dealt with by other countries. If we look, for example, at Finland, it could be said that Finland has a permanent, continuous administrative territorial reform. How do I think so? Over the past 10 years... I can make a mistake in the numbers, I don't remember now, but over the last 10 years Finland has reduced the number of its municipalities by some 30... with individual decisions in certain areas... I mean. They do not believe that if there is an objective problem in the north, it is necessary to redesign Finland as a whole. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... the specific issue at a particular point, where it exists, because it is clear that people's mobility is different, people from some area are getting away. And, in turn, these issues need to be addressed. Why am I saying that? If we put a piece at the edge of that big concept... for us objectively previous reforms and a variety of other reasons were carried out in Latvia. We have several regions that are not united. And the story of Ādaži-Garkalne, which has already been reflected in several... In quite detail, there is one of the great deformities that have been incorporated and that should be eliminated, whether we redesign the whole of Latvia or not. Let us assume that we would not even organise anything today on a larger scale, but this should be resolved anyway. I'm not gonna miss your time. In my opinion, the 10 arguments counted by Mr Kirštein are very precise and objectively describe this situation. And if we... Well, if we can't do anything good, confuse big cities and do something else that we can't understand, talk about levels, then this would be the same thing, one of some things where we could correct the deformity with this decision that we're going to take... For the purposes of Not there... All right.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U218	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U219	Minister! I won't stop, I'll ask you. Come and explain why you made Ulbroca County? That is why, too, there is this whole debate here today, from this troupe. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakules interscene.) There is no real explanation why such a municipality has arisen at all. See the description of the area attached. So the basis for the creation of the municipality, the creation of the Ulbroka municipality. “Riga Apriņķa Avīze” Ltd. has been established. It is a cooperation in education, culture and sport for the municipalities of Garkalne, Inčukalns, Rožai, Stopņi and other municipalities. Why, then, didn't others add them immediately? We can also watch associations working in the Association of the Municipality of Pierīga... These four. There, I think more of them municipalities. Well, let's get them all together. Minister! This is a fool driven by you, not a fool from the opposition. This is your proposal to create such a district of Ulbroka. Then come defend! The Commission was told that a strong area would be created, with a budget of 52 million...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U220	Thank you. I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U221	I'll be back. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U222	For the Commission... Is that so? ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U223	I will be without back! In the Commission, proposal 123 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U224	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 123. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the National Alliance! ( The box “On ”!) ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 45, for - 6. The proposal is not supported. Colleagues! We will continue after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U225	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Linda Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Juta Strīķe, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U226	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U227	Colleagues, I call you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's keep going! Name to Member Arthur Tom Pleš on behalf of the Commission on Territorial Reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U228	For the Commission... Proposal 124 was not supported or put to the vote by the Commission, as the Saeima made its decision on proposal 123.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U229	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U230	Proposal 125 is also not to be put to the vote for the reasons set out above.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U231	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U232	Proposal 126 is a proposal of the National Alliance, which intends to add the city of Wangazi to the newly created district of Adazi. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U233	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U234	The 127th proposal is a proposal from the FAO Group, which intends to maintain the district of Adazi in its existing areas. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U235	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U236	Proposals 128 and 129 address one issue: that the Carnikava region is maintained in its existing territories. The 128th proposal tabled by Mr Valainis was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U237	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U238	On this point, I do not really want to agree with the ZZS. But the reason why, is that it is clear that during the reform, it is clear that there will always be some dissatisfied, whether in the form of a combination of parishes or districts, as we call them. There is no doubt about this. The problem is that, in the present case, there is a illogical combination of municipalities. It is illogical in all of the above mentioned cases. illogical because it is done in some personal interest. An example of the Garkalne is a very good example. On Carnikavos speaking. I would also like to say that I understand that Carnikava is now self-sufficient, but if, as a Member of this troupe, I have said that Saulkrasti should be added to Adaži, then according to what I said earlier... public political rhetoric... It is also logical for me to maintain the argument that Adažis should be added to the Suncrasts. That is why I do not agree with the views expressed accordingly by other colleagues in this case. And it's like... and I have always tried, as I say, not only to take on the role of classic positions or opposition, but to express my opinion in accordance with my own convictions and to be fair in my judgments. This is the same as the Garkalne, which is actually willing to add to Ulbroka at the moment, and that is why the public needs to know. As far as I am aware, Ulbroka has some connection with Edgars Jaunupe's father, as here in the culuar talk, and that is the main reason why Garkalne is not combined with Adažis, but why Garkalne is added to Ulbroka. And that's exactly what it's like with the Dombrava House in the Saulkrasti. I do not think that this situation is acceptable. The fact that a territory will have objections is clear, but it is not logical that Ventspils is smaller than Rezekne or Jelgava is smaller than Rezekne, and it is not logical to add Garkalni to Ulbroka, but it is logical to add to Āžiai. And so do Saulkrasti. This would be a logical approach to dealing with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U239	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U240	Colleagues, I have already mentioned the reasons why it is not appropriate to combine Carnikava with the municipality of Adazi. And I would like to emphasise once again that Carnikava must remain an autonomous unit of the municipality. It already demonstrates that it is fully able to ensure the performance of its statutory autonomous functions, it provides real quality services to citizens, citizens are satisfied, and there are already centralised financial management and accounting services in the region. A number of services are being carried out which have already been taken over from the country. It is also an administrative area capable of economic development, it is a relatively important contributor to the equalisation fund - 2.11 million last year, a total of almost 15 million euros over 10 years. And quite actively also works to implement business development measures in their municipality. If you really want to help Carnikava, then you have to think about something completely different. Assistance is needed in the construction of schools, kindergartens, so that all children who live in Carnikava do not have to go to Riga to study or register artificially in other municipalities, such as the United States, in order to get a place in educational establishments in general, to think about providing better quality health care, rather than artificially combining with other municipalities. For if you really think it will be a huge benefit, then the only clear benefit at the moment is a reduction in the number of Members, which will certainly not bring significant financial benefits, even less so as to compensate for all the costs involved in the merger - the alignment of all systems, the alignment of forms, all the practical things that any municipality will, of course, have to survive in the context of the reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U241	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U242	If we talk about the importance of houses or properties, then I have to say that in Carnikava district, as far as I am informed, there is also a house for Valdis Dombrovskis. I don't know if he's turned to the request to save or has forgotten that thing, but it's like that à propos. As regards the criteria, now, indeed, the Carnikava region, compared to Adaži, even pays more than the Adaži Equalisation Fund, and indeed it is a sufficiently independent region. It has to be said that the projects to be implemented in Carnikava municipality also show that the municipality in this territory really meets the functions required by the residents. It's a sleeping area. And we can talk with foam on our lips about development centres, about development, but its development is linked to Riga. And that's why here too... In this case, it's... addition will improve administration in a given area or not, there is no answer of this kind. The economic performance will be improved by combining two different levels of economic capacity of the municipality? There's a lot of doubt. It seems to me that this proposal makes a great deal of sense, but I repeat what I have said on several occasions: it is a complex issue that must also be dealt with by the packages. There must be an administrative division of Great Britain. And then you can only decide how its components interact and what dimensions... And everything else... what they should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U243	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U244	Dear colleagues, This is a small amount of material sent by Carnikava Municipality Council regarding the maintenance of Carnikava as an independent entity. In this context, I would like to say (Interface from the NA Group: ‘Who leads Carnikava?’ )... I would like to touch Mr Dombrava... Mr Dombrava's mention of how you have argued about the creation of the Saulkrasti region. Carnikavas municipality in any of your called criteria - in any of your called criteria! - it's superior to head justice. This includes the number of visitors to Carnikava during the summer in terms of tourism, in economic terms, in a wide range of aspects (Dep. Feldman: “Negis buys!” ) Carnikava region is much more capable. What is being offered... What is being offered... is offered to combine Carnikava with Adaži Municipality. ( Internouncing call.) Sounds logical, but have you studied how Carnikava municipality developed at all? And here's the Chairman of Carnikava Municipality Council... Unfortunately... If the new Conservative Party did not submit it from the commission, then all other colleagues were offered a study on the basis of which Carnikava Municipality was established. Carnikava municipality was with the district of Ādazi. And it was precisely by examining various socio-economic considerations that it came to the conclusion that such an association is not viable in the long term, successful, viable, that it should be separated. This was a study by the Academy of Sciences, which served as a basis for their separation. At present, you, fellow Members, are being offered to build the Adaži district, based on a study, when this region becomes more economically strong when you put together the two budgets. Well, colleagues! Can you name me at least one municipal function that overlapd with Carnikava, where they would have disagreements in the performance of the function... For Adam with Carnikava? Just one! That is such a simple question. You are creating a reform to make it more successful for all the further development, where is the scenario of its development? Give me a question that we want to solve. ( Internouncing call.) The essence of the cultural history was not assessed at all why Carnikava... Nor has it been assessed. In the Commission, following a presentation by the President of the Council, it was... You know what happened? ‘ Thank you, we have listened to you, we will vote!” That's the understanding of the consultation... Development/About! I mean.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U245	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U246	I'm in science... The Latvian Academy of Sciences refers to negrosas. I do not regard it as an authoritative organisation that could be relied on. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ; dep. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) But if you talk about Carnikava as a separate region and compare it with Adazi, then by population... These regions are quite similar in terms of population. In the district of Adazi, the population is slightly higher, but in fact, visiting both... I've been to both the municipality at... In Carnikava district, both in the municipality of Ādazi, visited and discussed their development plans on how they plan to develop, what matters to them, what is important, painful and similar. Then you can actually see that these, let's say, the interests of the Adams go to... In the direction of Carnikava also, in part, where it is possible to create new jobs, build new roads. Carnikava is interested in mobility issues that come from the Adamics, for example... The flows of pupils to which the school is to be sent and so on, as well as the development of a railway station, are important for both municipalities. One is specifically the development of the Carnikava railway station; the other would be important development of the Garkalne railway station. But what is important? By leaving the municipalities so small - 10... around, plus minus 10 000 inhabitants - there is, in fact, no way for a major economic breakthrough. Therefore, now we make the size of their municipalities smaller, separate and prevent them from developing simply because, here, in Carnikava municipality, there is a president of the Latvian Farmers' Union, now... In my opinion, this is not the best argument. I will therefore call for a vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U247	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U248	You know, with this understanding of municipalities, you did not run or you will not run any municipality, I can assure you that. The question of... You've traveled by talking to the municipality of Adazi, but you don't think you've listened well. There is no conflicting relationship between the district of Adaži and the municipality of Carnikava. They have complementary relationships. If we look at population forecasts and dynamics, then in the district of Adazi plus 21 percent in the years to come, in the district of Carnikava - plus 4.4. Both regions will continue to grow. Under such circumstances, they are perfectly... Tell me, let's take... Both regions are concerned with the construction of kindergartens. There's no room in kindergartens. How will this reform solve any one kindergarten issue? Even one kindergarten question how will this reform solve? And, Mr. Butane, remember your vote on the Saulkrasti speaking...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U249	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U250	I had never been interested in the party in which the chairman of a council was present. But in this case, my logic was taken off the rails. Following the logic put forward just now, it seems to me that, in that case, the question of how to double the number of Members of the Saeima should be raised operationally. Perhaps 200 Members will work more productively, more productively, and more qualitatively than the existing one?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U251	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U252	In the Commission, the 128th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U253	Please call me! We will vote for 128. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U254	Consequently, the 129th proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens/ Farmers Union cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U255	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U256	The 130th proposal by Sergey Dolgopolov, a Member, provides for the establishment of a district of Babite consisting of the parish of Babite, the parish of Sala and Skulte. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U257	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U258	Colleagues! I understand that these economic indicators are absolutely unnecessary. Although here, to be honest, the difference between the Saulkrasti and the Babite is twofold - the population is twice as large as the Saulkrasti with all the annexes. Revenue from the budget... the income share is higher per capita than in any of the metropolitan cities except Riga. Payments to the Equalisation Fund are made on an annual basis and are substantial enough - around two million euros, but not a story. Let's join Babite with Marupe. What practical advantage does Babite and its inhabitants have? Several projects financed from European funds and Riga funds are implemented in Mārupe. This means that we will pass this burden on to pay for these projects, and these are infrastructure projects that do not and will never geographically affect Babite County, but will be allocated to them as well. We are talking about the development centre Riga Airport as the Mārupe Development Centre? I don't think so. Because this is in no way related to Babite or Marupe. In this case, what are its preferences and benefits for the people of Babite, whose number is increasing every year, the permanent, not the summerer, but the permanent population? What do they have... Now I would also very much like to know the argument that benefits all of this. There will be a new development - how will it be? New roads - who will pay for it? Is there competition between Marupe and Babite? This is not because they have different interests. There is no visible interest in implementing the proposed project. That is why I would call for my proposal to be supported and for a certain derogation to be maintained, because historically the piece we are talking about is... History has always been in Babite district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U259	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U260	Colleagues! I also call on you to save a separate region of Babite... and a little about the local government itself, the municipality of Babite municipality, observations about the process. They stress that consultations with the Ministry have been very poor and violate the provisions of the municipal charter on the obligation to consult properly. They mention that there have been meetings with the Minister, but unfortunately this meeting cannot be classified as consultations, but as an indisputable presentation of the Minister's opinion without a record of the developments, recording and evaluating opinions. Then a letter was written to the Ministry with a question: What will be the benefit of merging the municipality with the Municipality of Marupe? And in general, the answer again is very general, with a general assumption that combining Babite Municipality with Marupe Municipality will enable citizens to provide a wider and better range of services, as well as both... the combined region will be able to afford to attract qualified professionals. Of course, no substantiated fact which is not properly implemented, which will directly improve or any considerations why Babite and Mārupe could not afford to attract specialists at the moment due to a lack of funds is mentioned. Accordingly, the growth rates of both districts have not been assessed. And they are really high. In 2018, they were the highest among all municipalities. Where else could a full glass result from a merger? Then more water, as its edges allow, will not really be available! Well, and of course, what will be the benefits for the local population or for the public administration system? No specific argument. I think it quite clearly shows that not only are we opposition Members, here in the Saeima, but also the local government leaders themselves and their citizens seeing that the king is nude, there are no arguments. Contrary to the fact that the municipality itself has prepared a rather detailed analysis, which was also presented to the Commission of State Administration and Municipality. After this presentation, the only ones who asked questions at all about this material were two members of the opposition. The coalition has no interest at all. Thank you, we... Your duty to watch, our duty not to listen - this is the attitude. I think it's not right... and follow the proposal of Babite Municipality to leave it as an autonomous unit of the municipality.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U261	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U262	A little bit about the facts. These municipalities are also paying grants to the municipal equalisation fund. Babītes novads - two million, Mārupes novads - 5.5 million last year. However, with regard to Babite County, I would like to mention... because right now we're talking about it... Of course, the reasoning developed from Babite Municipality Manager. And, colleagues, I think this will be the case when the municipality of Babite municipality will also turn to the Constitutional Court. Very high probability, at least looking at how one of my questions is answered about how you evaluate the process that has taken place in the Saeima, is absolutely clear. Babies... The presentation of this Mārupe municipality was simple: combining these regions - 30 thousand inhabitants, a total budget of 53 million, in smoothing municipal finances, we accept, 7.5 million will be paid by this newly created region. In Babite municipality there is one secondary school, in Marupe municipality as well as one secondary school. Next, of course, this... who are already at this municipality of Ulbroka, which is also members of Riga Apriņķis Avīze, they are... education, culture, sport is also... Babite and Marupe have cooperation there. As well as those other municipalities that are in Ulbroka's cooperation story. So, in my opinion, these arguments do not ultimately serve as a reason why they should be created. And with regard to the way consultations have been conducted here too, unfortunately, I, as a Member, cannot answer any questions... Babite district asked questions, which will directly be better after the merger. If we go through the main functions, the educational function... That'll be better. They will also work within the framework of the current strategy in Marupe and Babite. For them, education systems are incompatible, because they are two different territories. Administrative expenditure. The Commission also said very clearly that administrative expenditure is unlikely to decrease in nature, because there is simply no way to reduce it. The only one to be reduced is on Members' salaries, but this is unlikely to happen, because, as we are talking here, we want to expect much more from Members today. I would expect much more from the Minister, who is no longer here to explain what was then the argument to choose 15 thousand for the optimal development of the municipality, because that is the criterion that this offer did not meet, but the criterion was abolished by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U263	Thank you. Your speaking time is over. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U264	This proposal is once again a story, firstly, of the lack of criteria and, secondly, of a rational approach. Marupe and Babite regions are absolutely self-sufficient. In 2020, following the plan of the Ministry of Finance, Mārupes novads will pay almost six million to the Equalisation Fund and Babītes novads - one and a half million euros. Maybe there's some reason that these people will really have services... more accessible or something will change their lives for the better. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Unfortunately, if it changes, then only the worst side, because for some of Babite residents the distance to the new administrative centre will increase to 80 kilometres. You could also look at Google’s map and see that there is a large forest between some of Babite settlements and Marupi. And there's no straight way. Of course, to the third reading I expect from the coalition Members proposals such as to rename, for example, the combined district of Babite and Marupe... For example, about the Western Riga region. And what we're going to do in two or three years' time when Development/About! will come with an offer to combine all of Perry with Riga, then we will have a colossal country with monocentric development? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Interdependence of Reizniece–Ozola.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U265	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U266	Colleagues, I will also call on you to support the call of the municipalities of Babite and Marupe to keep these municipalities separate. But I would like to draw attention to what the managers of these municipalities point out about the quality of the work in the commission where these issues were discussed. At the invitation of the chairman of the commission, the chairmen of the municipalities of Babite and Mārupe announced the arguments why the municipal councils do not support VARAM's offer to combine the two municipalities. And from all the members of the commission, questions were asked only by Members of the Saeima Viktors Valainis and Regina Ločmele-Lunova. The representative of VARAM did not, in fact, answer or answer any of the parliamentary questions. So what qualitative discussion, Mr. Plies, are you trying to tell us? Well, why do you hit our batons on... What is the story about? What was black on white written? You're reading or how? Can you read it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U267	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U268	The Ministry will set criteria. The geographically united territory of Babite is. The county territory is defined in the national development planning documents, except for Pierīga, however. There are not less than 15 000 permanent residents in pious regions - but potentially, if we look at developments, this will happen there. There will be more than 15,000 people in Babite. Why 15,000 people? Neither did anyone explain it. Sustainable economic development of the area is possible. There is absolutely no doubt about Babite. This is the attraction of investment, clearly. There can be no question of attracting investment in Babite. The network of education, public transport and other services is already effective in the area. There is a sufficient number of students for one perspective secondary school. Isn't it? And! Question... optimally establish the territory so that the municipality can independently ensure that it performs the autonomous functions laid down in the laws. All functions shall be performed in 100 per cent. What is the question?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U269	Thank you. It's over. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U270	Indeed, in preparing legislative proposals, the Ministry is losing an understanding of what geography is. But it's not that story either. In the smoker, Mr Plesa and I talked about the fact that the agglomeration of Great Britain really required a separate approach, and he seemed to have agreed to it in theory. But probably, after consulting the fine pair of Pavlut and Puce, that opinion had to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U271	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U272	In the Commission, 130 proposals were not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U273	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 130. - Member Dolgopolova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U274	The 131st proposal, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, provides for the maintenance of the district of Babite in its existing territories. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U275	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U276	With regard to Babite County, there would be much to say. Let's go on with the previous... previous stories, i.e., in general on the criterion of establishing the territory of Babite municipality. At the moment, too, in the Commission when we looked at this issue, the only reason why Babite could not build... because economically from all criteria - from absolutely all criteria! - Babite region should be left as it is, without considering how Babite region has historically developed... no one appreciates it at all. With regard to the population criterion, in my opinion, the novads of Babītes... already clear developments show that there will only be an increase in population. As for the fact that they are two completely different administrations. That too, I think absolutely for everyone is clear, and here I have a question again: can anyone call one single-to-one kat between Babite and Marupe, even one unanswered and unsolved question that would be exactly between these two municipalities? Can anyone tell you where there is a common interest among the people in these two regions? What is the unifying of these two regions, why should such a united region be formed? In the Commission for these... No replies were received to these questions. All the more, I'll just repeat... the fact that, including Babitei, the main issues are directly in cooperation with Riga. And these are mutual challenges for both Riga and Babite. In the context of this draft law, no solutions were offered to the MoEPRD in order to solve the problems of cooperation between Pierīga and Riga. Zero! No solution! At the same time, a rather heavy mechanism is being created, the territories that, by their very nature, could have functioned peacefully, because the challenges that these territories face are very local. Indeed, for them, this policy is also to be seen at local level from the point of view of the challenges. Now, for example, in Babite and Mārupe, there is also a kindergarten problem that passes through the whole of Piegai. Is there any solution proposed for this reform to address this specific problem related to municipal functions? There is no solution, instead it is said that if you unite, there will be more money. Will this reduce the population? At that point, will the problems be reduced immediately? The kindergartens won't have to be built anymore? You don't have to keep social houses? Are all these problems removed at that time? I would like to say that one plus one is not three. And that's what you're trying to tell the whole Latvian society that, by combining budgets, they will suddenly become richer. There will be no wealth, but territories will remain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U277	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U278	Colleagues! Sometimes it's that one plus one isn't just three, but there's even less than two. And I think this is one of those cases: two self-sufficient municipalities, artificially put together, will not benefit. You'll just say that the local people from... their front positions will be remote. Well, Babite is really self-sufficient, the two million euro contribution to the equalisation fund is one of the indicators, the lowest unemployment in Latvia is just three percent. Two indicators that speak for themselves. Imagine the merger of Marupi and Babite, even the transport system cannot be normalized, because at present no one can go from Marupe to Babite and vice versa without sitting in Riga. Well, that Riga cannot be wiped out, between the two regions it is. Population as a criterion I think here you have another example where you get a break for your extremely many exceptions to this system. Līvāni is an example where you have left a separate municipality, knowing clearly that there are about 12 000 inhabitants, which do not reach as many as 15 000. But... Babite itself, of course, emphasizes that she is fully satisfied with her functions - education, public transport, roads, social service, the exercise of autonomous functions of municipalities according to the law “On Local Government” is fully carried out, there is a sufficiently efficient health care network, municipal network, road infrastructure to the administrative centre of the municipality... Well, it's completely arranged, it's also an autonomous municipality model, that from a distant point of view, you have to travel 50 kilometres to the center, conveniently for the population. If you have at least one argument that something is wrong and indeed just one argument on the substance that will improve citizens in this whole range of services, then come and say. You're... The only thing to try to say is that it will be better, but no clear argument is that it will be better.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U279	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U280	For efficient management... add the territory of the vald of Salas to Babite since 2009. The administrative expenses are small, because in the daily life Sala parish only the social employees of the municipality work, which provides a sufficiently good link between the population of Sala parish and the administration of the municipality. If necessary, the employees of the administration shall provide services when travelling to the parish of Salas, as well as the reception of residents in the premises of the administration in the parish of Salas. This formation was established in 2009. And for the administrative costs, how would they save, now we... If we make calculations, then it comes from... Only from administrative expenditure alone, where something, that is to say, to the wages of municipal Members, could be saved. And the administrative expenses... they may amount to five per cent of the administrative expenditure. Can anyone tell me everything in the praised study of the Bank of Latvia: how much will Latvia save by combining these two regions? What savings will be made?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U281	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U282	In the Commission 131, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U283	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 131. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U284	Consequently, the 132nd proposal, which speaks on the same subject and is tabled from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, does not constitute a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U285	Proposal 133 should not be put to the vote, but proposal 132 should be put to the vote. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Victor... Oh, no, it wouldn't be! You're right, Mr. Plesh. So we are starting a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U286	I also join in the fact that this proposal cannot be voted on, but, as I have already said, this will certainly be the municipality that will most likely turn to the Constitutional Court and this decision... The Saeima will challenge this very thoughtful decision. That's why I would also call for... It is precisely in this case that reform drivers should come and explain more about why this area should be combined in a purely administrative manner. The big message for reform is to make a geographically unified... Babite is already geographically united... economically strong - Babite is an economically strong entity, peer-to-peer entity, so that they do not differ sharply. In any case, I would like to say that Babite will not be the smaller municipality if we would support the creation of the independence of Babite municipality. Moreover, Babite has already strengthened its cultural and historical role, has its traditions, has a system of local government, has established a whole series of very successful companies that have developed in Babite district. And in principle, it's not known who would then be who would... no one has taken the initiative to make them dissatisfied. The evaluation of the residents of the municipality as such has not been carried out or is not satisfied with the work of the municipality. The only assessment that has been made... they are the regular elections, where the same party always wins. It is the Association of the Regions of Latvia. Yeah, well, maybe when you're looking at politics, combining Babite with Marupe... maybe something could change there, but now also the political leadership of Babite (and it is not the ZZS) has shown that it is working very successfully, it is working successfully... and for a very long time. The citizens, through their votes, show that they are in favour of this governance model. And the development center, the administrative center that is now in Piņķi village... already the first news of the Piņķi village and the island dates back to 1225. And there is a municipality of Babite. At this point in time, we must rely on the estimates of a minister who is no longer present here in the hall, on the criteria that have been imagined, which are not based on any actual research. And the analysis of the services as such has not been carried out at all. All available information that has been provided to Members has been taken from the local government development programmes themselves, with a record of the facts without any conclusions. In my view, the merger of Babite municipality with Marupi is not justified, and the information provided by Babite municipality proves this absolutely.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U287	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U288	Colleagues, I know that I do not have the right to talk to the hall under the rule of the Saeima. But I understand... right that you are heading such a reform in the name of the coalition's stability? That's right? You're home with your head. So the reform is being directed towards the coalition's stability. It is a pity that this coalition drives some reforms in the name of the coalition's stability. I thought that reforms should be directed in the name of the Latvian people and in the interest of the Latvian people, not in the name of the coalition's stability. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U289	Mr Gobzem, speak on the proposal. Proposal 132:
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U290	Mrs. Moore, listen to the end! You will understand that I...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U291	Don't talk to the chair of the sitting! Debate on proposal 132.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U292	Mrs. Moore, we're not in a kindergarten! We're...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U293	Don't talk to the chair of the sitting! Please debate the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U294	We're not in a kindergarten! And political rhetoric. There's no kindergarten here, Mrs. Murniece! And listen to the end!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U295	Debate, please, on the proposal. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U296	Then don't bother me and let me debate. And for this very reason, these all of your stupid unifications or unifications in different strange places are not really actions for the benefit of society. Everything we have talked about in the last days shows that you want to break down the regions, the municipalities that work well. Do you have any argument that they will now start to work twice better? No, no! Your basic arguments still return to your personal interests. And that's what's wrong. In this case, too, you have no arguments. I don't even know if it's fair, whether it's better or worse that Babite will unite with Marupe, but position... The coalition did not step in the tributary and did not provide factual arguments, logical professional arguments that prove that it would be better. What will improve in exactly one section? And that is how there is a lack of political debate on your part. Stop making decisions! Stop driving reforms in the name of the coalition's stability. Move reforms for the benefit of the people, in the name of the people and in the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U297	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U298	For a little more clarity, I would like to say that the previous Constitutional Court has already assessed the previous reform. And what is important: the previous reform was for every administrative territory that offered, for example, Babite to combine with Marupe... was a merger plan. And every question of the municipality was an answer to the substance. Every one! Not just the answer to the fact that you will then live better. And what happened at the third reading, to which everyone refers, is that the reform was adopted last night - there was already a division of territories. The preparatory work itself was much more extensive, and the issues raised here were simply not. Therefore, its reform was also examined at a relatively very short time. Therefore, colleagues, we will still have long, long negotiations on this reform in the coming days.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U299	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U300	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add that, yes, there was a discussion with the local authorities. Members asked questions to both municipalities and residents, as well as to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development answered the questions asked to it. Proposal 132 cannot be put to the vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U301	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U302	The 133th proposal is also not put to the vote, as the Saeima expressed its views on the 131st proposal by rejecting it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U303	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U304	134 The proposal tabled by Member Viktors Valainis is intended to maintain the Prize Municipality in its existing territories. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U305	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U306	I will call for support for this proposal because there are also regions that do not agree with the new version of the Prize County. And in particular, it is about Baltinavas municipality. And I will also invite Members to listen to what they write from Baltinawa. The draft law is prepared hasty, imprudent, without a long-term vision of the local areas following this reform. No objective analysis has been carried out either from VARAM or from the Saeima Commission, how the development of the territory of Baltinavas municipality will be affected in the long term, improvement of welfare of the population, involvement of the population in decision-making. Nor is it clear about the economic benefits, how much funding will go into economisation and how much funding will be needed to implement this reform in each newly created region. Thus, Baltinava Municipality Council does not agree with the draft law promoted by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission of Saeima, which provides for the addition of Baltinava Municipality to the Award Municipality. Please, please... Take this into account! I'm reading this... it also remains in the time book, in the records of the debate. And, honourable members of the CPV LV, when we went through the pre-election campaign around the counties around the rural people, we told them all that such a reform was necessary and that we were on reform, but we were talking about something else - that we were first setting up the second level and only then getting on with what you are trying to do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U307	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U308	Yes, colleagues, according to VARAM logic, the awards could be added to Sigulda in a calm manner. No problem! Because they have cooperation on waste management. Why... Why not? All those in the middle, they're gonna have to... in one network, we put everything together... One big Sigulda will be. This proposal, I think, was very bright about the issue of representation. In case of addition of surrounding regions to the Award Municipality, then the surrounding regions... and the previous speaker has already mentioned Baltinava Municipality... there will be a very, very great challenge to get some representation in the Council. But I have a question for the reform drivers - could you explain what will really change? This is... we are now starting to look at such a remote area, this area of the Prize. There is a proposal on the maintenance of the Prize Municipality as an independent region. We see that the Balvu novads currently receives 3.3 million from the municipal financial equalisation fund. Similarly, all surrounding regions receive funds from the Equalisation Fund. Maybe... Mr. Pavilut, you said that you should create a big, strong economic... At what point will the new Balvu region, which could potentially receive almost six million from equalisation of municipal finances, become economically independent? At what point? Will it be in the foreseeable future? If we look at the National Development Plan, that will not happen in 2027 either. According to the National Development Plan, in 2027 the funding will not be six million, but 5.8 million. These areas will also have to be given. Do you... What do I mean by that? Even though Baltinava... The Balvu region is not opposed to this reform, I will withdraw this particular proposal, but I generally believe... in general, I believe that this has not been discussed in this case, too, and I will explain in much more detail how foolish and, in fact, small, the action of the Minister for the Environment and Regional Development in the process of preparing this reform has been on the table. Very weak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U309	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U310	The 135th proposal, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, provides for the maintenance of the district of Baltinava in its existing territories. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U311	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U312	the novads of Baltinavas. One of the smallest, if not the smallest region in Latvia. The population is not even one thousand. In my opinion, Baltinavas novads is such a deeply symbolic region in Latvia, around it there are many... A lot of things went on, different historical events, even the National Association once stood up for the preservation of the part of this municipality in the territory of Latvia - this is Abrene County. So a very wide history. And I find it very sympathetic for this region manager - her determination to fight for the existence of her own region. That is why I will not leave this proposal behind and will call on the Saeima to also vote in favour of it. And then what is... Baltinavas Municipality Council has also sent its explanation. District Council... with less than a thousand inhabitants. All voters of this Mrs. Sarmite Tabori, the head of the municipal council, are very... He has always been supported by citizens in their elections. She has already several names. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Witenberg: “What party?” ) However... But in this case... We can't... in this one case VARAM failure to explain to Baltinavas Municipality Council what the benefits of the reform will be... In this case, there was even the Prime Minister's resolution to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to explain to the people of Baltinava how their lives would change after the reform. ( Subtotal: “Nothing! ”) ) Is that... Did you explain it? You can criticise politicians from previous times, but politicians from previous times explained in 2009 to all the administrative units that will change in their particular territory, in particular. You have not done so, even for the municipality of Baltinava you have not explained what will change in their life. Can you, Mr Ples, get up at this moment's platform and say just one thing about what will change for the people of the district of Baltinava? They have asked the questions in a respectable way here - they have asked the questions in a respectable way! The key in your face is that your life will be better. It's a spit in their face. They are ready, they have really come to this consultation. You said: thank you for your attention, we will add you to the Prize.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U313	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U314	To explain to Baltinava what will then improve them, you really... It doesn't work. Their own estimates are that out of the 13 areas following the administrative territorial reform, nothing will change in the four areas... good news, but the situation will get worse in nine areas. And therefore, of course, more than 90 percent of the people of Baltinava are opposed to being added to the Prizes. They give some examples, ask questions. Culture. What will improve culture? Because they already have the highest figure in the number of self-employed collectives per thousand. Education. It is correct to point out that the Ministry of Education and Science plans a network of schools according to the number of pupils in an educational institution. This has nothing to do with administrative territorial reform. Healthcare is over again. As was the case so far in Balvos, the nearest hospital after the reform will be in Balvos. Nothing has changed, and nothing will change. Social services. Well, here they estimate that they could get worse, as they are now providing social services and benefits as close as possible to the population and according to local needs in four regions. One important factor, colleagues, if you are making larger municipalities, public transport. How can a person from the remote part of the region get to that center? In this case, the Prizes. They themselves say, for example, that from 1 January 2021 there will be no bus route in Cesis-Gulbene-Balvi-Baltinava-Karava. And actually six settlements... These are Zubki, Dzierviņa, Rudukova, Timshani, Paslaure... people will not be able to reach the new centre of the district at all. Currently, part of Sloboda residents have to go on foot or cycle to Baltinavas region. There's no way to get to the Prize. Same as road condition. Road condition: P46 14 km long is in very poor condition, P35 4 km long - in very poor condition. A total of 18 kilometres in very bad condition, and they don't see any prospects that will improve. Of course, here's the guess... 300 million roads, right? But then tell me which particular roads, how many kilometres... How many kilometres will the district of Baltinava be arranged and during which period and from where will you take their funding? These are just some examples. There is a great deal that Baltinava itself has asked questions in the form of questions to the Ministry and has, by nature, not received a reply. And this, in my opinion, really shows a very bad administration. If you can't convince people, then... That's... command to unite, I think you will be able to obtain such a rather bad effect from it. The people will be very dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U315	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U316	In the past, from the opposition, I no longer remember which Member, I heard that we are, in principle, not opposed to administrative territorial reform. We are in favour of a balanced, constructive and arguments-based reform. So, looking at the number of people in Baltinava municipality, where 963 people were registered at the beginning of last year, I have a question: where are these reasoned and substantiated facts about the need for such a region? ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) Does this mean that we all need regions with 900, 500, 900 or how many inhabitants? And that's the economic justification? Yes, then maybe we need a second direction - not to consolidate, but to share more small units. ( Milestones.) I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U317	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U318	This time I really will have an emotional speech, because Baltinava - it's my, my ancestors' residence. My grandfather, who was involved in the release of Rezekne, is buried in the once Abrene County. And I'm just going to read a part of the document prepared by a colossal man of the head of Baltinava municipality - Sarmīte Tabore. There will be some answers to Mr Butane's concern. And the answers are as follows. The question is the departure of the population and the settlement of the territory. Is it going to improve? The answer is that there will be an increasing risk of an increase in the number of exits. There is a high risk that new families with children and young people will leave, which will lead to even greater depopulation in the area. Question: State security. Deterioration of the area at the eastern border in rural areas, a decline in the well-being of the population and a deterioration in the availability of services can cause great frustration to the population at the eastern border. Is there a need for people in the eastern border who are devoting loyalty to the country, or is this not a risk to national security? The situation is getting worse. Question: It's your place. In the small districts, people have a much more prominent belonging to their home country, their traditions, and patriotism. Upon joining a larger municipality, belonging to its territory, as if disappearing to its own municipality, it was observed in the parishes which were merged in 2009. And the last one. Can I unite the times, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U319	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U320	And the last one. Of the 13 areas following the administrative territorial reform, nothing will change in four areas, but in nine areas the situation will deteriorate. In no area of our region, Baltinava municipality, there will be no improvement for citizens. This merely shows that this reform is not in the interests of the citizens and that the reform of the district of Baltinavas will only bring about a significant deterioration of the situation. There is no justification for this type of reform. Yes, indeed, it is the smaller municipality of Latvia. But is it not our duty to listen to their thoughts and desires?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U321	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U322	The situation will not improve if we do nothing. Indeed, as Mr Butan pointed out, there are now 963 inhabitants in the area of Baltinava. And those trends marked by demographics... basically demographic trends by 2030... a quarter of the current situation could lead to a decrease in the population. ( Milestones.) What kind of services are available, what quality of services, what budget is sufficient to provide them, we can talk about... in such a small municipality? It is clear that the municipality itself will have to think... Prizes to the municipality how to improve these services in the municipality. The state will not be able to determine everything from above how the municipality organises its life on the ground. It is clear that this will also be the responsibility of municipalities, but what we see is clear: in order for us to reduce somewhat the rate of depopulation, which is also mentioned by Baltinavas, we need to think about how we can use the budget that the municipality has more effectively and, at the same time, the municipalities... which is also one of their autonomous functions... promote the development of entrepreneurship in the region. That is something that the municipality must also think about. And the municipality cannot exist only for the purpose of providing jobs in municipal structures.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U323	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U324	Friends, you really don't want to hear what you're told. We are saying that you are unable to justify to the local people why they will be better in this reform. From the fact that you think it would be better for me to do ballet, for example, I don't think I'm going to do ballet, I'm going to stay with the chess. And the same thing must be done for you, namely, the same principle must be observed in the context of Baltinav. If you think they will be better by adding a municipality, you must give arguments. You have not even asked whether they also believe that they have been divided into the provision of services or that they feel unhappy. Business... business you mentioned. In business they have 69 active companies per thousand inhabitants, a very active municipality in business. Given that there is also one large part of agriculture... agricultural land... the land used and, in fact, other types of business are even limited.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U325	Thank you, thank you. Your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U326	I think you have to carry out the analyses, you have a duty to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U327	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U328	... the Head of the sitting! Well, colleagues! It's... This is the most interesting thing. You have just shown yourself that you simply cannot. Baltinavas region would simply put you in a bag with its questions and arguments. You cannot justify why Baltinava region should be added to the Awards. ( Internouncing call.) The only argument is that you have a small population there. Is this an argument for the existence or absence of a municipality? The only argument, in your opinion! Look at how Europe works! All the other arguments - entrepreneurship, management, education - are here. Baltinavas novads, small municipality, you are placed in the bag! Just put it in... Into the bag. What do you mean... What do you mean by your ideas in this reform - effective, self-sufficient, something else. Baltinavas municipality - the small Baltinavas region - asked you: Come explain! Prime Minister asked VARAM for a resolution - come explain! Finally, I would just like to say thank you very much to Sarmīte Tabor. You are simply a great municipal leader who has actually shown that a little cinite can beat a great deal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U329	Thank you. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U330	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U331	Proposal 135 was not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U332	Please call me! Let's vote for 135. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U333	136 The proposal put forward by Member Viktors Valainis provides for the maintenance of the Rugāju district in its existing territories. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U334	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U335	Now this is a long time... the first one where the county council agrees to the creation of a territory configuration in this way. And, in my view, this decision of the Rugāju District Council also marks the fact that consultations on the substance... Here too, we are reflecting the fact that there has not been any consultation on its substance. And the second point, which the Rugāju District Council, including the small Rugāju District Council - 2100 inhabitants - invites the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia... Administratively, the Territorial Reform Commission calls for halting the progress of territorial reform on the basis of the current model to ensure the successive, hasty, democratic, tactical introduction of a territorial reform model. In my opinion, it is also possible to achieve some successive compromise and a consecutive proposal on how to develop the territory of the municipality of Rugāju. In this case, as in the previous case, I can say that these small municipality areas, with their questions, simply show how weak you are in fact. The only thing you have is you have the voices of the coalition, but this arrogance will end at some point, and you must be able to answer. You've always been able to do this, you're just saying, well, you have a small population there, it's not enough. And what are the criteria? How then do you yourself vote for certain regions... How are you going to vote for certain regions? Colleagues! You do not have consistency, and the worst thing is that you all respond to this sort of dragged phrase: “It will be more effective. It means better, it means better administration right away." If we look at the change in population... If we look at the changes in population in these small regions, they are smaller than in the large districts. Now let's look at the example of Baltinava County. In Baltinavas municipality there is less population reduction than in Daugavpils municipality. A much smaller reduction than in large regions. Can this be taken as an objective criterion? In my opinion, this cannot be taken as an objective criterion, but it is the only criterion that you have taken. You like to fall out very well in your chairs, but the only thing we ask is, explain. ( Interface: “Two works! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U336	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U337	Indeed, colleagues! The Rueji Regional Council has decided to postpone the adoption of the reform, with a request to Members, in order to carry out a qualitative analysis and develop a model that is indeed based on real data. And that is to a large extent precisely because they also believe that the consultation process has been very weak, that it does not comply with the Constitution and also with the Charter that citizens, the municipality, have not had the opportunity to get answers to questions in substance. And you don't do this, you see that you're getting that glow right now. One important thing that I think they are concerned about is that an analysis by the map publishing house of John... economic geographer Turlay admits this, and he is a great authority in this reform... that the newly created Balvu region with its development centre, Balvos, is considered as a territory with low development potential. What you are telling the Rugāju Municipality Council and its residents that we will create a larger municipality... but it's all going down. And, in my opinion, it is something that does not really motivate citizens to be excited about this reform. You must give answers to the question of how you will help the Prize to develop in such a way that the Reds also benefit. How will you even arrange these roads so that the inhabitants of Rugāju district can get to the Prizes, and they can... as an administrative centre. Well, the more you would have explained in the process of preparing the reform, the more arguments would have been given, and sometimes it is true that the municipalities themselves are preparing a much more valuable, more detailed and more precise analysis than the Ministry has done. The less problems at the moment, the only argument should not be used - a small population. Then we could already say that Norway is a poor country and has no prospects for it, there are 422 municipalities. Of course, the territory is larger, but a large number of municipalities.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U338	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U339	In the Commission 136, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U340	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 136 - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 11, it's against - 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U341	Proposal 137 tabled by Member Viktors Valainis provides for the maintenance of the district of Viļaka in its existing areas. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U342	Let's start a debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I am sorry! You don't have to follow the line of order? And the application was submitted!’ ) Name of Member Viktor Valainis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) Turn on the microphone for Member Gobzem!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U343	Well, Mrs. Moore, you don't have to follow the Rule of Conduct? An application has been submitted, which must be examined at the time when it is submitted. It was tabled before the next question was examined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U344	Not applicable. There's no time when... This application should... when it should be examined. The application will be examined. Don't worry! ( Internouncing call.) There is still time for this, and we have started the debate, and let the debateer speak. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U345	Yes, thank you. We've come to another municipality. Viļaka Municipality Council. It's like... What a surprise you think! The municipality of this municipality has also replied that consultations with the municipality have taken place formally. The fact that this municipality is in principle seeing another development scenario. The municipality... no justification has been received. Mr. Plies, you and, in particular, all those who would say that everything is clear to everyone... No justification has been received for adding the Award Municipality to improve the situation in Viļaka region's business, economic situation, accessibility and quality of services, increase the level of development of the territory and reduce the depopulation, and improve demographic and other indicators. A very simple question. It's sent from little Viļaka City Council. Sergey Maximov, in my opinion, is one very good head of the municipality. By the way, I think he's from Latgale, right? And that is why the question is also for the New Unity: why have you not explained to your partners what the benefits will come from this reform? Let us reject VARAM, New Unity, Mr. Leiens, Mr. Adamovich. It is your party's partner who has sent a letter to the Saeima that it has not been explained what the benefits of this reform will be. I understand that the Prime Minister wrote the resolution to explain to Baltinava. Baltinava did not receive a reply. The Viļaka will benefit from adding the Viļaka... will they add to the Prizes? And that's why I'm going to keep going. Why have you not turned to the Minister in a coalition if your partner, a political partner, points out that consultations have not been, that they have been fiction and that they have not been heard in the Saeima? So how can such a letter be received... To come in such a letter, sent to me... On 4 March, where I asked him - tell him, please, just your thoughts, as the whole process seems to you. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues, I asked this question personally to all Latvian municipalities. And, as a miracle, most of them have answered me. And, uh, it's like! Other responses are also given. Well then maybe you're so smart and you can answer it. I cannot answer how exactly and what will change as a result of this reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U346	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U347	In Viļaka municipality there are about 4500 inhabitants in 2019... Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of 22 October Average over the last three years - on average! - the average annual population of the region is reduced by 300 people. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “What will change?” ) So we can see the current situation: if we... if we leave as we are now and the current trend continues: the population of the municipality is falling by 300 inhabitants per year (Dep. R. Lochmele–Lunova: “The population will rise instantly!” ), then after... then it turns out that after 10-15 years the population in this region does not remain at all. That is why I think it is necessary to take action, to consolidate resources so that we can finally at least have some kind of economic activity at the border.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U348	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U349	Consequently, there has not been any consultation of citizens on this issue at all. The Minister's map has been created in Old Town, in the ministerial office. And I have serious doubts. — Dep. A. T. Pleasure - or... Does the Minister even know where the... He probably knows, but if he's been to Viļaka. That is another question. People need to talk to... not only with Edgars Newup and their sponsors gambling... That's one thing. The other thing I want to say. Latvian society, opposition has asked to convene an extraordinary sitting of half-four Saeima and has called Prime Minister Kariņš to the Saeima. At the moment, the position is trying to avoid this issue and try to call its own extraordinary sitting, so as not to show that the opposition has done so, instead of simply working constructively (Dep. R. Coll and D. J. Salnieks: “On the proposal!” ), instead of working constructively, the following manipulations are carried out. That's why Mrs. Mourniece...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U350	Speak, please, on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U351	... did not examine the relevant application at the time it was submitted. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U352	Okay. Colleagues, we still have a debate three minutes to break. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U353	Colleagues, it's the third in a row. Again a small municipality and again a reproach to you for the absence of consultations. These are, of course, not the only ones, but it would be so simple to give them at least some arguments that will be better. When Mr. Butan's coming up in the truce... I really very much expected that there would be precise comments on which roads, how many kilometres in which I would arrange not only for Viļaka but also for previous municipalities, which clearly say that they will not be able to reach the centre that you will reset because of the fact that the neck can be broken on the existing roads. That is what you have to come and tell. And maybe in this way, you will also be able to convince small municipalities. If they clearly know the concrete benefits - a smooth road to the center, life will be better, no bike will have to drive, you will be able to... will be able to go to arrange the paperwork, to go to the Doctor in the normal way - then understand that it really is worth it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U354	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U355	Yes, I understand now that you have the logic of saying that you are talking about Viļaka Municipality, Mr. Butane, that there is a shrinking population... How many... 300 or how much of a year... A What happens if we make a bigger region? Then the statistics will be terrible at all - there will be three thousand per year. Now, in fact, that reform must already be in order to develop these regions and not to reduce the number of people. And if only that 300 is a terrible number and that's why we have to unite... you will really look tragic. And then is the county bigger if there are minus three thousand... will these minuses fall? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butan: “I should have listened to what I said!” ) So that comes, say something here and you don't know what. These are now the drivers of the reform. I think, however, that the most important thing here is consultation with citizens. They have not taken place, no replies have been received from the Minister or from the Commission. And those inhabitants and municipalities which have turned, and in this case the municipality of Viļaka and the inhabitants of Viļaka... to understand what the benefits will be and how this reform will improve their lives, improve opportunities in education... elsewhere... they were left unanswered. And I think that's the most important thing. And this is also a violation of international obligations, that there have not been consultations with the population. And if you remember, Latvia has joined the municipal charter, and it is an international document, and we still have to respect the principles that have been laid down there. I therefore call for the views of the municipalities to be taken into account. Perhaps we should stop looking at this bill at all, we should stop it because there has been no consultation, because the international texts have been violated. And finally because we're all going to get infected with the coronavirus right now (Laughter) and we'll get to go home like this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U356	Colleagues! Time to break. Let's have a debate after the break. There is also a five-member submission calling on us. A. Gobzem: “I withdrew!” )... that invites us to stop. This is not to be considered as it coincides with the ordinary agenda of the Saeima sitting. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U357	Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Anda Čakša, Inese Ikstena, Nikolai Kabanovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Maris Kučinskis, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Juris Rancāns, Ivans Ribakovs, Andris Skride, Karina Sprūke, Juta Strīķe, Jānis Urbanovičs, Ivans Zariņš... I'm sorry, Ivars Zarins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U358	Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U359	Colleagues! Let's keep going. On the agenda - draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”. For the Commission, Member... Excuse me, we shall continue the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U360	It must be acknowledged that, after such an extraordinary sitting, it is difficult to return to this issue. But, colleagues, we're going to go on... continue on administrative territorial reform, in this case on the Municipality of Viļaka. Let me just emphasise once again that consultations with the local government... Within the framework of the consultation... the essence, as the municipality itself points out in this letter dated 4 March, which was... Until the Saeima... has not happened. The head of the municipality did not appear before the Commission, but, in his letter, asked him not to take such a decision. And in essence, what can be deduced from this letter, too... the only thing the Head of the Municipality of Viļaka wants - he wants an explanation from the reformers about exactly how this border region, the border region, with all the challenges of border regions, but... how the economic situation in this region will improve.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U361	Thank you. The debate is over. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U362	In the Commission 137, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U363	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 137. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 20, no, 47, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U364	138. - the proposal by Member Viktoras Valaiņš that the territory of Bauska region should be maintained within the existing limits. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U365	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U366	Colleagues! With heart and soul, I am the commandmentmaker and the inhabitants of Bauska district. And what I see is that the Bauska region has really developed in recent years, has been thinking about improving the quality of education, ensuring social services and also attracting businesses. Likewise, of course, there have been other regions, but... in this reform offer, which I support, where... Bauska municipality will be combined with Rundāle Municipality (Dep. R. Coll: “You won’t be at least playing!” ) with Iecava Municipality and Vecumnieki Municipality... This district will have a combined population of more than 40 000 people and a budget of more than EUR 60 million to provide its functions in order to develop the functions that the municipality needs to provide to its residents. I see it - its development trends - and how these municipalities work. They are already working very well in different directions - in education and... For example, there is a joint construction board, there is a common tourism... tourism planning... and also a number of other questions where its roots are already... has already been established and has been in existence for a very long time. And it is clear that we will only benefit even more from this decision. It is clear that action will also be needed to further improve the development of this region. Here is a story about how to handle roads, especially the Bauska-Vecumnieki road (road P88). And, as already mentioned in the road programme, EUR 300 million will be allocated over a three-year period to improve the road network. I very much hope that this stage of the journey will be something that will be decided to improve in discussions with local authorities. I would like to emphasise that Bauska region, the existing one, is developing an industrial park, and it will certainly be a strong support for making Bauska region even more powerful in the future and providing jobs for all inhabitants of Bauska municipality in the future. If we are talking with the view a little further in the future, it is a great pleasure that planning documents have reached a faster implementation of the Bauska bypass, as well as the fact that both Bauska and Iecava will have regional Rail Baltica stops. And from such a future perspective, it is very important that the Bauska district is further developed. So, colleagues, I call on you to support what the Cabinet has proposed and what the Commission has proposed - to build a new and strong Bauska district.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U367	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U368	Thank you, Mr Ples, for the first time there is at least a little more detailed reasoning from this platform. Apparently, you really know Bauska municipality. And maybe there's the key here - we need to go more often to visit other regions and talk to people trying to get to know the municipality and then offer reforms. I will talk about one aspect of this proposal. This proposal provides for the Bauska region to be smaller than planned in the reform, for example, to exclude the Iecava municipality. And the most important reason, of course, is that Iecava municipality does not want to be part of Bauska municipality itself. They also mention that after separation from Bauska district Iecava itself has developed into a local development centre with a real potential to become a regional development centre, a municipality with several features more corresponding to Riga planning than Zemgale planning region municipalities. One example is the territorial development index. In 2018, Iecavas novads is 33rd place, Bauska novads - 49th place. And logically, Iecava is therefore concerned that adding the Iecava to Bauska region will not strengthen its potential to develop, to become even stronger, but, on the contrary, that it could be such a heaviness of stone that would drag their development down. And it's also actually their most important argument. In addition, of course, 97.4 percent of Iecava's population... wishes to maintain its identity and individual county. Perhaps there is one practical reason for this decision: the residents of Iecava municipality have become accustomed to handling all administrative matters in Iecava municipality. And if suddenly the centre will be Bauska, it will also mean a significant change of habits for them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U369	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U370	Yes, proposal 138 - on the preservation of the Bauska area in its existing areas. This proposal, after consultation within the Commission itself... I do not see that this would be the best solution. I agree with Mr Plesa in the sense that the Bauska area should expand, but I strongly disagree with the fact that the Bauska area should increase the area in the section you are currently offering. The Bauska region really already has a strong independent unit with a development centre. I do believe that, despite the fact that the Bauska municipality has a grant from the municipal financial equalisation fund of more than three million; that will continue to be so, and this reform will unfortunately not change in any way. But what should be changed with regard to this offer... This offer has not been considered exactly from these... Development vectors. And in this case, the question of the future of Iecava and Elders has not been fully invented here. The status of the development center has been taken, which Bauska, of course, is, and around this... In the municipality of Bauska... the following areas are added: Reformers have put themselves in the frames in relation precisely to Pierīga. And in this case, I would look more at one of the municipalities of Pierīga. And this Municipality of Pierīga - Baldoni - would be joined together with the seniors and Iecava, forming the Iecava as an administrative centre. It would, in my opinion, be a much more logical and correct offer, and... Adding some parishes to the Bauska, but... together with the relevant... Accordingly, together with Vecumnieku Municipality, they also agreed on the re-allocation of the... And, in my view, this agreement can be reached... and... It is also agreed with the Municipality of Rundale on the way in which it will then be managed. Rundāle region is also one of those regions that have sent a lot of questions that we will touch on here next, talking about Rundāle municipality, but... With regard to the Bauska region, I did not withdraw this proposal, but I can already say that I will be offering a different configuration for this region at the third reading on the basis of decisions taken by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U371	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U372	Colleagues! I will also not support the addition of Iecava Municipality to Bauska Municipality. And as the main argument, I will say very briefly that the owners themselves believe that this reform is not of a good quality (Dep. A. Interdependence of the Muižniece.) - Yeah. even the new profile of Bauska district was prepared with incorrect and incorrect data, incorrect and incorrect data. And then the question is: if the attention of the members of the commission was drawn to this, why did you not take it into account? At least it's written here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U373	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U374	I would like to draw attention to just one important point in this opinion of Bauska Regional Council, which is dated 6 January. There is also a proposal for a basic law, where... unfortunately, it has not been fully taken into account. For the third reading, I would ask you to think and find a solution... Let me draw attention to paragraph 9 of the transitional provisions, which we talked about very much. This municipality also very specifically points to this basic text of the basic law – that the basic text of the law already encodes the problem. The municipality's budget for the financial year shall not exceed three months... and confirmed by... This time is too short, as this particular municipality points out. I would call for this to be respected and for this debate to be remembered for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U375	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U376	Mrs. Liepiņa. If we are talking about this data, it is the responsibility of the municipalities, which data they provide to the responsible authorities. And these data, which the municipalities have provided, were collected and submitted to the Commission by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in a specific data form, so that Members of the Commission can get to know all of this and take a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U377	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U378	In the Commission, proposal 138 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U379	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 138. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U380	139. - the proposal by Member Viktoras Valaiņš to maintain the Iecava district in its existing... in areas. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U381	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U382	I would like to focus, by nature, on the creation of the Iecava district. In this case, in the context of this reform, Iecava County Iecava City... city status is also granted. So the city already expresses ambition to... How... obtaining the status of development centre. The municipality of Iecava currently has a total of 8359 inhabitants, which is after these VARAM... Members' proposals have been sent to... But what would I like to focus on? Administratively, the Territorial Reform Commission had a very well prepared alternative proposal, based on the views prepared by the councils. The proposal provided for the establishment of a common administrative territory for Baldone, Iecava and Elders. At present, the link with Bauska is much smaller than that with Riga. The bay has developed... This is also confirmed by the facts, as demonstrated by the information provided by the municipalities, by the very detailed information on how the owners move and where their jobs are. And the municipality council itself has clearly stated that their development vector is in a different direction. It has already developed more than the Municipality of Pieriga. I think it's good to... for the entire territory of Bauska region, such a solution for Iecava would be more successful than that offered by VARAM. In the opinion of Iecava Municipality there was also a detailed passage through... for each section... how many people move to Bauska every day, how - to Riga. And there these figures are simply not comparable. Essentially, most move in a completely different direction. This in essence... I understand the situation... Well, if there are Members in Valmiera, they understand the problem of Rūjiena... In fact, there is exactly the same problem of Rūjiena, which is being encoded in the law. Here's a successful... successful cooperation, I think... Of course, you can try, but a much more successful model of cooperation would be if Iecava, Elders and Baldone formed a common territory and Bauska merged with small areas around Bauska; this would increase the Bauska Development Area. So, my fellow Members, I am calling for this proposal from Izcava to be considered. And for the third reading, I will certainly also make a specific offer, because in the commission too... Those who are members of the Commission - you saw: Iecava had prepared a very good alternative reform offer.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U383	Thank you. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U384	This question. The municipalities concerned already have good cooperation in the fields of education, culture, sport, tourism, as well as a joint civil protection commission, joint construction board and... a number of other issues. If we talk about the proximity of Riga, then, of course, different studies and different data show how far it really is... how far is the hand of Riga and how far is this area of influence... How far it reaches. It actually goes up to... to the city of Bauska, which is ensured by the road A7. And a large part of the inhabitants of Bauska municipality go to work in Riga daily according to SRS data. But this would certainly not be the case because of all this Riga... the relative agglomerations and these close links should be converted into the municipalities of Pieriga. What we have to do - we really have to make strong municipalities also locally, despite the proximity of Riga. For, of course, Riga will and will be the driving force behind the economy for the whole country, but the municipality itself must also develop a business on the ground, where these integrations are successful (I hope it will be even better in the future) so that it can be ensured... Therefore, in my view, this proposal to maintain a separate district of Iecava would not be acceptable.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U385	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U386	I'm glad for Mr. Pleis. When he talks about his home country, however, he can explain something, not to the end. On this newly created district of Bauska. In fact, it is the old Bauska district, it consisted of 17 municipalities that were zero... Well, lower-level municipalities. Currently, its territory is objectively formed and management issues will be a major, major challenge for this newly created municipality. But what do I want to stress? In this case, the challenge is all the more serious, because from Iecava, as the chairman of Iecava Municipality Council mentioned in the Commission, only 3.2 percent of the people on a daily basis relate their way to Bauska's direction, all the others link it in a completely opposite direction - towards Riga. And that makes it clear that... trends in people's lives already show that there are completely different governance models that are needed. And in my opinion, the municipal offer was better than we can offer.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U387	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U388	Colleagues! The municipality of Iecava also points out the shortcomings of the process, including the fact that we have not been consulted on the substance and no responses were received. The only answer that has been heard from VARAM is that the Saeima determines everything that it does not decide. And that's a little weird! If we are the author of the reform, then it must be one that can at least explain one decision or another, rather than saying that all responsibility lies with the Saeima. And the second factor to which Izava Municipality points is that this is the new profile of Bauska Municipality, which is prepared... like a rating like that, so everybody will live in the future... In an attempt to justify a better life, it is wrong to prepare. Well, starting with the total population in the profile, regardless of how many people live in the current rural centres. And so the scene is not correct. Even the population is not correct! Well, and then a few more technical things... But, of course, their most important objection is that its life is not at all related to Bauska right now. And in the working environment, it really is that only 3.2 percent of Iecava's population lives... works in Bauska, 35 - in the Iecava district itself, while 50 percent works in Riga. Colleagues! The fact that Iecava will be added to Bauska municipality does not mean that its relations will become stronger and that the employees who are currently working in Riga will really move to Bauska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U389	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U390	The 139th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U391	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 139. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -11, for -49, for -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U392	140. - a proposal from the ZZS Group providing for the establishment of an Iecava district. The municipality is composed of the existing Iecava municipality, as well as the municipality of Baldones and Baldones. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U393	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U394	For the second reading, the Union of Greens/Farmers already had information on how to develop... more logical development of Iecava municipality municipality. The present proposal provides for a merger of the Celebration with Boldon. This is also a proposal from the Group of the Union of Greens/Farmers - To combine Iecava directly with the Municipality of Baldone. In a way, the Commission should make a choice, tell us clearly whether in that case Baldone and Iecava would become a municipality of Pierīga or whether, let us say, they would remain in the neutral zone. I will withdraw this proposal, my fellow Members, because during the Commission, during the examination, in particular with the local authorities, a much more successful proposal emerged. And by adding not these two, but the three municipalities combined... That's what I agree with... Local government leaders also agreed with the consultations, and an alternative offer was prepared for how this could look. The only reason why this alternative offer was not supported... Yeah... Both in terms of population, in terms of budget size and in all other issues, as well as in terms of the... Even in purely administrative terms, in logistical terms, this offer would be much more logical and would be much better enforceable... and would also be a more successful result. In this case, we are withdrawing this proposal. And, as I said, for the third reading, we, as a political group, will come up with a different regulation, in a way also confusing the government's offer for Bauska, but... without claiming that we are against reform, but offering a better solution to reform, at least in this case. That will certainly be so! And I call on the head of the commission and the coalition in general, and on the VAR, if they still follow, to give up the development centre criterion, because without the development centre criterion... As we were talking about here, it's planned to change them... this would be a much more successful area. And if you are thinking of political monitoring, it is also a municipality of Unity that comes to the FAO right now and demands help. I think we need to remove the policy here and look at the substance of those issues. The only reason why this did not happen is the centre of development. We need to move aside from the development centre criterion and we will have much more successful areas.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U395	Thank you. The proposal is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U396	141. - the proposal of the Member Valaiņa, which provides for the maintenance of the Rundāle district in its existing territories. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U397	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U398	the novads of Rundāles... For many Rundāle region is associated only with Rundāle castle. But there are almost three and a half thousand people in Rundāle! Of course, the development forecasts are not for Rundāle municipality, but it has also developed... with its historical development. And a population survey was also carried out in Rundāle. Third part, my colleagues, the district's population voted... participated in this survey. Part three: Whether it is legitimate or not, I think it is enough to evaluate and respect this district. Of the 973 votes, 931 were ‘for’ for the maintenance of the Rundāle municipality as an independent district, 14 were ‘for’. If you look at how Rundāles novads has worked, I think Rundāles novads has been quite successful, because also in the information on business attraction projects presented by the municipality, Rundāles novads has been very successful in providing services. What was interesting? In the Commission Mr. Okmanis, Head of Rundāle Municipality, has been... is also a former Head of the district. And he also came to this historical experience in relation to... and it was very good that there was an opportunity to debate historical experience, as has been the case in the districts. There are 17 municipalities in the former Bauska district. Currently, it is measured, made as one, and so there is this great challenge of how this region will be managed successfully. The county of Rundāle had little to do with the Commission... practical questions for the head of the municipality. There are a lot of arguments in this letter, and this is also the case when I think VARO had to treat himself respectfully. A third of the municipality’s population took part in this survey, and it would only be respectful to tell them a little more than that they would have a better life. Tell us how the representation of their interests will be ensured, how social services will be provided, which will take place with the educational institutions in Rundāle, which will take place with the pre-school educational institutions in Rundāle, how further business development will take place. These are simple questions that are answerable to the drivers of the reform. Since you have not done so and Rundāle novads also makes it clear that in consultations... and what has happened in the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government when dealing with this issue has happened outside the principles of the Charter. I did not withdraw this proposal and I also call on the Saeima to make its own choice.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U399	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U400	In the Commission 141, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U401	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 141. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U402	Proposals 142 and 143 are talking about the same issue: preserving the Older People's District in its existing territories. Proposal 142 and tabled by Member Viktors Valainis. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U403	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U404	The municipality of Vecumnieku is also a surprise! - has sent a letter dated 10 December 2019. Of course, as in many other cases, here too, the decision of the Council is against reform. Here, too, the council is very reasoned about how consultations have taken place or... i.e. they have not taken place. The same shall apply to the work in which the consultations were conducted within the Commission. I would like to emphasise in particular that, after hearing the local authorities in the Commission, local authorities have the right to receive answers. Here the Vecumnieku Municipality Council has noted that the objective, the objective set by the reform, is in contradiction with Latvia’s sustainable development strategy “Latvia 2030” as a hierarchically highest long-term development planning document in Latvia 266, which highlights the three main aspects of Latvia’s spatial development perspective – accessibility and mobility opportunities, residential life as an economic development, people’s living and working environment, as well as other arguments that I think it would be worth considering as an in-depth development of the municipality’s territory as a whole. It is clear that the main direction of the municipality of Vecumnieki is to Riga. It will also confirm the plans of the Ministry of Transport, where the Ministry of Transport, carrying out various replannings every year... exactly the way to Bauska. It's a road in which the car slips in the spring, the school bus doesn't go at all, because it can't be there... there simply cannot drive in the spring, there are dairy cars slipping away. Then about this... This road has never been considered strategic by the Ministry of Transport as it simply does not happen traffic, and traffic takes place in a completely different direction. And the priority is Riga's direction. There is a connection right in the direction of Riga... There has already been a different direction in the national development strategy programmes, so I think in particular that the development of Vecumnieki municipality is exactly in the direction of Riga as the residents are already using it very actively. Riga and Olders must complement each other in order to be successful in development scenarios. Don't go against the stream! This is what you offer, you offer to go against the stream. As regards Olders, in my opinion this offer should be improved, and the municipality of Vecumnieki is the one where very careful consultations with the management of the municipality concerned should be carried out and whether the municipality of Vecumnieki could not be divided into several parts and part added to the newly created municipality of Iecava, the other part - Bauska municipality.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U405	Thank you. The speaking time is over. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U406	In the Commission 142, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U407	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 142. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 11, it's against 52, it's not about. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U408	143 The proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens/farmers' Union cannot therefore be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U409	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U410	I will keep that idea for the Older. The municipality of seniors is so important... the most important thing - their territorial location. And certain territories really have closer ties to Bauska, and these individual territories should also move more towards Bauska, because life has shown that there is more links, not with the Older Town, but with... directly with Bauska. Therefore, in my opinion, a similar scenario should be created in Vecumnieki municipality, as we created in Aglona municipality, where the region is divided into several parts. That's what you're supposed to do with... together with members of the local government, including the surrounding municipalities. I am fully convinced that such a successful agreement can be reached in these regions. It will not be 40, it will be 41, but it will be 41. J. Witenbergs: “Kandava!” ) will be much more successful than currently proposed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U411	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U412	Mr. Valaiņš, you somehow get into a little contradiction with yourself, talking about different municipalities. When we talk about one municipality, you say: “Well, yes, here the municipality will have its development perspectives (Interface: You will also object!” ), we can set up a development centre and build this development there.” In this case, when it comes to Older People’s Municipality: “Well, no, they already have the direction to Riga. What are we going to do with Bauska?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ It is clear, therefore, that road infrastructure needs to be organised, and this is also one of the points of reform that any region must reach this centre of development and administration. In this view, it is very important for me that the road connecting Bauska and the Olders be put in order in the P88. If we are talking about consultations, last year the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development held consultations with municipalities, newly created administrative territories. I took part in a number of consultations. One of those I visited was this consultation, where specialists of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Minister also met representatives of the newly created Bauska district. And yes, there were a lot of questions, and the Minister answered those questions. So I couldn't agree with that... the fact, the fact that we are trying to assume that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has not conducted consultations. So do we in the commission... I can reiterate - we invited the municipalities, we discussed with the municipalities and also provided the consultation process within the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. So I do not see any problems or any kind of infringement of procedures, to which the opposition is so keenly trying to point out to us.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U413	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U414	The fact that I am talking about older people's direction to Riga is an objective fact. In this case, I am not talking about Riga, but about Izcava, which could be this administrative centre, and that is what I am talking about in the three previous proposals. So, Mr. Plies, I am asking you to listen more to what I am saying. Regarding the way in which consultations have been conducted. Indeed, Mr Plesh, you could prove this by showing at least one minutes of the meeting, so that we can have confidence that the answer is really answered. Just one! I am familiar with several minutes of meetings which were recorded by the local governments, and unfortunately there is clearly what appears here, in this sitting of the Saeima, to be about most of the proposals... As you all talk about how good this reform will be, you simply respond to the fact that the reform will be good. They are not consultations within the meaning of this bill. For the purposes of this draft law, you must provide answers to the questions asked in substance. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U415	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U416	143 The proposal cannot be put to the vote because the Saeima has expressed its views by voting in favour of proposal 142.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U417	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U418	144. - the proposal tabled by Member Viktoras Valaiņa. It is planned to maintain the municipality of Cesis in its existing territory. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U419	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U420	With regard to Cesis. This is a special story why I believe that the municipality of Cesis should remain in the existing territory. In Cesis, I think that such an important centre of development for Vidzeme has also developed, and in Cesis municipality should also develop further towards more monocentric than polycentric development. This proposal provides for the (Sitting Manager to knock down with a hammer) maintain the municipality of Cesis as an independent entity. The commission also had a long discussion on this issue, and in a way, at least the head of Cesis County was one of those who somehow understood what I was talking about. — The Hall of Noise. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U421	Mr. Valains, one moment. Just a minute! Colleagues! Please stop the conversation, it is difficult to hear the speaker on the floor. ( The ring of noise.) Please take the seats in the Chamber. We are continuing the Saeima sitting. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. J. Izalnieks: “All the time speaks the same language!” ) Colleagues! We must continue the debate. Please let us continue the debate. Once again, the name of Member Viktor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U422	Thank you, Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! I did not bring this reform to the Saeima, you did it, so please accept that there will be this debate on each proposal and on the substance of each proposal. In this case, the story is about Cesis Municipality. In my view, Cesis Municipality has developed very successfully not only because it has had relatively large support from the national central budget, which has not been the case for other municipalities, but also... regarding the fact that the municipality of Cesis could play... There is currently only one important development centre in Vidzeme, and it is Valmiera. Cesis, Smiltene could also be those of the next major development centres. Here, in particular, I would like to emphasise this... We should look at what is happening around Cesis Municipality. Around Cesis municipality also has a whole range of municipalities, which in my opinion have established very successful cooperation in principle in all the main functions assigned to municipalities and have been working for years. These regions, the surrounding regions, too, were clearly prepared. It was not a consensus on their part, it should be noted, but most expressed clear readiness to work together to build up this... one polycentric development centre and one single centre for development. In my opinion, Cesis is the municipality that could become a more important point in all Vidzeme.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U423	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U424	I am listening here to Viktoras Valainis, and it's his feeling that he knows about every municipality in Latvia. He has an opinion on each municipality of Latvia. ( Intercretion: “He was working in the commission! ” ) I am from Cesis, so I also have an opinion on Cesis Municipality. I can only say that, in the previous reform, the rivals and the surrounding residents, the residents of the surrounding regions, were about creating one large region, not about sharing the various small regions to ensure, so to say, the work of the parishes. Here too, this proposal and the following proposal on the creation of Priekuļu Municipality... There's no... there is no logic between them. Because if you want to separate yourself from Cesis municipality and talk about Cesis as a development centre, as a city, then Vaives municipality should also be taken off and put in this Priekuļu district, not in the proposal to propose that here, Cesis municipality as a development centre. I can say that from surrounding regions to Cesis, in principle most of the population travel to work and... educational institutions and health... all transport infrastructure is linked - everything is directed to Cesis. Joint integration of these administrative territories in one region would be a logical step for both development and... Talking to the representatives of the municipality, they see more... in terms of money, quite a large economy that could be iconomised. I do not understand why this economy should be abandoned?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U425	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U426	Mr. Butane, you should have listened more clearly to what I said. In this case, I propose the creation of a clear development centre in Vidzeme, which could play a more important role than is currently the case. What you're offering right now - you're offering just... The government offer is to create one large territory and start with Cesis... It is for the county of Cesis, which has now marked such a clear vector of development (and also the state's targeted grants are coming very close), to mark the fact that this municipality is still developing in a monocentric way. ( If you want to know what the word “monocentric ” means, I can explain to you.) But the rest of the region - it is dispersed, the territory of another density - the rest of the region develops polycentrically. There's no story about parishes. I suggest that all those seven regions be merged into one area, but that Cesis district be maintained in the existing area.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U427	Thank you. The debate is over. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U428	It happened that I was lucky to live in Cesis for a year. It's really a wonderful place. But here it is perhaps not so much about their reorganisations and the creation of the Cesis district, how - that it would be very important to remember history here. In the first phase of the reform, it was proposed to combine in a truly single region all the regions around Cesis. That was the offer. It caused enormous resistance from all regions, especially from Priekuļu region, where the real economic situation at that time was much better than in Cēsis itself. Indeed, there has been significant progress in recent years in the Cesis, and they have indeed become a well-known, serious centre. But it's something else. You see, too, that those who live in the regions that are joined together must be clear and clear about the benefits that come from it. This is dialogue. Dialogue with the public, dialogue with the public, dialogue with local government staff and Members. This is an important issue, and this is what we are talking about here in a very large part of the proposals made by Mr Valaiņš. And this, the honourable Mr Butan, that Valainis is preparing for this legislative debate, gives him great honour, unlike a coalition Member who is not prepared for such a process. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butan: “Do you accuse me that I am not ready?” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U429	Would you have two minutes, Mrs. Ozola? Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U430	The fact that Cēsu novads is not optimal in its present offer can be seen in the reservations of more local governments to be added to Cēsu novads. One of these is the Municipality of Jaunpiebalga, which, of course, also highlights the fact that consultations have not been sufficient, rather considering them as an information seminar where citizens and Members were not even able to ask practical questions. One of the factors which they also point out is that Cēsu novads does not comply with Article 6(7) of the draft law, because the territory is not optimally designed so that the municipality can be more efficient than the current administrative... implement the autonomous functions assigned to it in the administrative territorial model. Why is that? It's just because of the distance. The village of Jaunpiebalga is located 72 kilometres from the city of Cesis, which is planned as a development centre in the perspective region. This means that in order to receive the services of individual municipalities, assuming that everything will not be electronically available next year, citizens of Jaunbrīga will either have to spend two hours in private transport or three in public transport. That's quite a lot. This means that the quality of life of its citizens will not be improved. Well, they compare that Smilten is 37 kilometers away, Gulbene - 48. Even it would be better than the city of Cesis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U431	Dear colleagues, Members Paviluts, Adamovich, Zakaistov, Feldman and Dzintar ask for a break from 5 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. So let's debate further after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U432	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Andrejs Klementjevs... yes, Ieva Krapāne, Janīna Kursīte–Pakule, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Juris Rancāns, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Mārtiņš Staķis (Interface: Yes!) )... is, Juta Strike, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivars Zarins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U433	Thank you. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U434	Colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's keep going. On the agenda is proposal 144. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U435	Yes, colleagues, about Cesis Municipality. In this case, too, I feel that the views of the citizens have not been taken into account. The representation of the population, too... political representation and participation after this reform will be reduced. Here we have already mentioned the fact that there are 70 kilometres from New Rewards to Cesis. But you can imagine that the other end of the county of Cesis will be the Straupe side, where there are still more than 30 kilometres to Cesis. And it seems to me that the region will now be almost 100 kilometres wide... Well, I don't believe that citizens will actually feel some sort of territorial belonging... people with the Old Prielga, New Prielga. It's never been. Well, if the only thing... We are coming back to the Soviet era again. Of course, in Soviet times it was one district. Well, then, I say, it seems to me that this reform is already a return to the former areas and in this case it is not really in the interests of the citizens to lose their political representation. Here again, of course, rural areas could try to elect their representatives in new councils, but cities are likely to dominate. I think this is wrong. It must also be possible for rural people to participate in political processes, so that their representatives are elected and that the elected Members listen to the rural population rather than that the cities dominate the countryside. Logically, Members too... If the city is the one where the number of voters is the highest, and if the city is the one which actually ensures that the candidate for a particular Member is elected in the future, then he will have more day-to-day care than in the outermost regions. That is why I am calling, in this case, for support to be given to proposals relating to such a logic, which will ensure that citizens are politically active and that citizens have political representation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U436	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U437	In the Commission, the 144th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U438	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 144. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U439	145. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union. Provision is made for the establishment of a new Priekuļu region. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U440	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. There is a humiliation in the grass. Depp. A. Gobzem: “Who is coughing? Who was it? Mr. Budrik, please go home!” (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U441	Yes, colleagues! As regards the establishment of Priekuļu Municipality. This region, if it were set up, would be more than... Around 25 thousand people would live in total. In budgetary terms... There would be a budget of around EUR 40 million for this region. What is important is that we prepared this proposal directly after consulting the local authorities concerned. Not only during the consultation, but also during the meeting of the committee responsible, it was clear... clear... These municipalities concerned have clearly demonstrated that they are prepared to work together in the future in such a new structure. What would that mean? This would mean that this newly created Priekuļu region, where also the heads of the municipality of Priekuļu and the heads of the surrounding municipalities had already agreed with each other that it could... This centre could be a joy to form together a single municipality that would be economically strong, a single municipality. What should be stressed with regard to this new municipality's offer? For several years all these municipalities have a common education administration, a construction board, and the main functions of the municipality are already carried out together. I think it already shows how many of these municipalities are already... Well, in a way, since the introduction of the previous reform, it has been very sensible to come up with this issue. A large part of them do not meet the requirements of this Law currently in force and do not meet the criteria of the existing Law. There are also no new criteria in nature. However, this municipality would be quite economically strong, already with the relevant indicators, in nature, there would be no change in the organisation of the work of the municipality. It signifies that one polycentric development region is formed around Cesis. Cesis would continue the scenario of monocentric development of the region and really develop as another. Ideally, three or even four strong development centres would be established in Vidzeme. There's only one right now, and it's Valmiera. In my opinion, Cesis should be given this opportunity to develop directly...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U442	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U443	Let's see. The joys that have just been mentioned, which may be the center of this district, are about five miles [5 km] from the center of Cesis, or about three miles [4 km] from the border. In the past, when discussing Cesis Municipality, it was said that Jaunpiebalga was too far and could not reach the center. Then you don't know why this proposal, where Priekuļi is the same place as Cesis, is included and will be available here. I think this more looks like after the destruction... and not reasonably weighed. Instead of looking for really rationally reasoned, well-founded proposals such as, for example, in the county of Cesis, we could discuss the addition of the city or parish of Līgatne to perhaps Sigulda, which would be a debate, or the addition of Rauna to Smiltene or Cesis, which is the opinion of the people... which divides 50 to 50... The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Instead, you simply take and make destructive proposals and spoil administrative territorial reform. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (Mr E. Papule and other Members' inter-speakers)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U444	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U445	If you're really interested, I could take a break... Come here and tell me what the polycentric development model means and what the monocentric development model means. In this case, I offer... It is this Priekuļu region that would be targeted as a polycentric development model. This does not mean that the Priekuļu would consolidate... All development services will be concentrated. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butāns: “I have a master’s degree in geography, I can read a lecture!” ) This would certainly happen in a number of points in this new... in the new county. If you have any real proposal, please come and tell me! This is a proposal to create a much more successful region than you offer. At the same time, it would also give real resistance to the further development of Cesis as a development centre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U446	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U447	I had a very deep and long discussion on this proposal with a person living on the New Court side, Mr Dūklav, and he asked Mr Butan to refer this matter. When you're next time you get into the New Reward, Mr. Butane... He ordered such a case: “You don’t touch the reward!” (Applause) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U448	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U449	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Now we see, we are starting the phase where Mr. Valina's proposals prevail... can clearly... leave the existing status of a number of regions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “It’s not about it!” ) including the county of Cesis (Dep. V. Valainis: “It’s not about it either!” ) and it is directly linked. If we look at the joint proposals, Mr Valaiņa has tabled 116 proposals on individual regions. We currently have 119 municipalities. In practice, it is a destructive act - leave everything as it is, without any argumentation, without any added value (Dep. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) ... Why... Why am I saying that, Mr. Valaiņš? I think the public should remember the summer of 2018, where Mr Valaiņš, as a candidate for a Member, said such things to the Saeima - he has built a sports hall in the Old Town, in Skaistkalne. He's built a stadium in Iecava. He has improved the park, the Lutheran Church of Elders has been restored. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Substitution: On the Proposal! ) See, it shows the essence of this proposal - fragmented Latvia so that people do not really understand what has changed, how living conditions have improved, the availability of services, so that there is a total fog and the policies that have been pursued so far can continue. This is the handwriting of all Valaiņš' proposals. I call for no support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U450	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U451	Finally, Mr. Cole has woke up... But in principle, it is not about saying that we're going to say the words "sabotage", "destruction" and so on, and still. This is not even about supporting or not supporting this proposal. This is about something else. Here are the different merger or reform projects that apply to one territory, that is the work that was to be done in the ministry, because there are indeed different visions and different perceptions of how to organise the work better. Naturally, I agree that here is not the right place to talk about it and perhaps to debate it, and try to say that there is one better, one worse, because it had to be done before. And that's the big problem with this bill, that we're working on design... from the design point of view, not a particularly well-thought-out project. That is why I am not calling for neither to support nor reject Mr Valaiņš' proposal, but I am calling, in particular, on the ministries and the special committee to think about these things, because it is to some extent a parachute in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U452	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U453	Colleagues! I could agree that the many proposals made by Mr Valaiņa are destruction if it were not really within a short time (we spoke to the local authorities to express their views) within a few days... Well, there's not all here, but here's some of those that municipality... Local governments sent out, and 99 percent of them are critical of the existing reform, including the process. Even if the municipality had agreed to join the municipality, it is often true that there has not been any consultation. That is why it is good that there are so many proposals. We can hold its debate here so that the public can see that those local authorities, dissatisfied local authorities, leaders and citizens can see what the arguments are for the reform offer. Unfortunately, the coalition... coalition does not use it, does not come with its own explanations. One rarity can hear someone, an adequate comment, and that is the worst. That comment on the summer of 2018 - I think it was a blow under the waist. It wasn't cool.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U454	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U455	In the Commission, proposal 145 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U456	Please call me! We will vote for 145. - The Greens and the Farmers' Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 11, it's against -54, it's abstaining - it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U457	146. - the proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņa. Makes provision for the Priekuļu Municipality to be maintained in its existing areas... within the territory. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U458	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U459	Mr Kola, I did not bring this reform to the Saeima in the state in which it was submitted to the Saeima, nor did I create this special commission, which would simply order three homes from all municipalities. What I did - I force this commission to listen to absolutely all Latvian municipalities. All of them! Do not turn off anyone. I submitted 119 proposals and forced that this Saeima should have an opinion from each municipality. What Puce didn't do. You voted in favour of this reform at first reading, you did not have any information about any municipality, what their views on this reform are. In a way, I come in front of you with my offer, I help bring this reform into some sense, order. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “Good!” ) Listen to what we say from this platform! In the case of the Municipality of Priekuļi (Intersacre.) ... Here, look, Priekuļu Municipality asks for answers to clear questions such as impact on public development, quality of life of the population, changes in the business environment after reform, reform related to other reforms, school network and so on. Mr. Cole! Where is your beautiful answer then... how specifically in this area... It's a municipality, it's not some imaginary formation that we're talking about here today. They are democratically elected, elected citizens' municipalities, and these municipalities must respond to their questions in substance. What you are doing here at the Saeima right now is simply rolling the couple. I have told you several times that this reform will put the Constitutional Court at risk. All I ask of you is to explain. It hasn't happened, Mr. Cole! That's why I'm coming here, I'm going to talk about each municipality separately if I need it, and I'm coming to the third reading as well. I'll do it as long as you start working! Colleagues, you can close my mouth - come and explain these things! But you can't do this because you just don't have any arguments to say. What will you tell this Municipality of Priekuļu? ( Insight: “Valainis fought! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U460	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U461	Thank you for the substantive debate. I have always considered that there should be maximum diversity of views at the Saeima sitting, as it is necessary to reduce all possible risks of constancy when examining the draft law. So please come as much as possible. We need to make informed decisions based on facts and evidence, because we need them. E. Papule: “ Honey! Honey! Or some honey!’ ) for the Constitutional Court to recognise that this draft law, which is important for national development, has been adopted in a legal manner. Thank you for your energy, let's wait another...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U462	Please turn to the proposal. Thank you. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U463	Mr. Valaiņš, I really don't know what we would have done without you?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, These proposals would not have been tabled, and if... I do not know, you would not be in this commission at all, because it was clear, before we started the work of the committee, how we would organise the process of hearing local governments that we would ask local governments for this opinion, so that they would give an opinion on the draft law “Law on Administrative Areas and Localities”. We would also have planned to listen to local authorities in the Commission, even without these proposals, in order to consult on the draft law text. What you are showing with these proposals is that you want to keep the current order of things, not to develop Latvia. This particular proposal to maintain the Priekuļu district in the configuration it is currently in, to subject it, to say it, not to development, but to decision - that is your choice. I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U464	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U465	Colleagues, we are talking about the Praise now, and how will the Praise look in the future, and then there is a word battle about the fact that Valainis has not done something in the past and so on. This discussion, I think, is pointless for the reason that it could be compared to a situation where we are all in the backyard and there in the hand, plant flowers, let go of the lawn, and we can see that the tsunami is coming. Just comes a huge tsunami, but we continue to water and everything else... This is the situation of today's Saeima. We would put a garden here, but we have a crisis on top, we have an emergency on top. We continue to work on the principle of what we should not do today. One thing. The other thing. Mr. Cole, you are criticising Mr. Valaiņa, who is objectively the best prepared for this debate... Unlike me or you, let us be honest! That is a fair, fair answer. You're coming, you say, Valainis doesn't have any stadiums or he's built. I am sorry, you and your party - how many years promise that everything will be okay? But how many Latvians have left here in Latvia? And this is actually your only point in the program, that here, in Latvia, there will be an abnormally large number of Latvians, there will be an increase and so on. But in fact, everything is the other way around. So what have you done as a party? With you ahead, Mr. Cole? Don't come offended Mr. Valaiņš! That's why I'm also on the ladder, that objectively Viktors Valainis speaks only in content with each proposal, unlike me, or unlike you. Only in content! What are you doing? Are you coming to answer in content? No, no! You have to answer for some stadiums, for some promotional campaigns to talk about. I would understand that you would come to answer me, as a asshole, I'm sorry, at your age. (Laughter) But do not do this to a person who constructively approaches completely every detail that people listen to. And let's close it, maybe, at the moment when the tsunami goes down right away. We are already talking here about a huge crisis in the shells. People write news, letters, everything else. Everyone understands. We're fighting for the Praise. Is that serious? No, it's not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U466	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U467	Mr Feldman's proposal is indeed on the table. Because exactly about this Valainis speaks in each of his speeches, he invites to come and explain. By the way, this did not happen at the meetings of the special committee, because it worked to a large extent as a voting machine. Unfortunately, Parliament is also working today as a voting machine - no more and no less. Forgive me, it is a laxity, and it is not a serious attitude to the legislation that is our main point, forgive me, a piece of bread and our work.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U468	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U469	Colleagues! Of course, Mr Valaiņš has put forward many proposals. I made it right. Those starting from this seem to be from one of the 110 proposals. They are simply brutal, primitive, contrary to what the reform offers, back to the status quo... to the status quo. ( Internouncing call.) Returning to this way, you can say in the composition as it is. Mr. Gobzems mentions that, you see, the number of Latvians is falling, there is no growth. I see that it is this reform that can change the stagnation that has been in place since the last reform and improve opportunities. No one has crystal bombs here in this hall to tell what the final result will be for this reform, the impact on every citizen of Latvia. But it is clear that excessive resource spending on 119 municipalities... Either, have not proven to be very effective, is aimed at each municipality’s population and would benefit most from it. I think these proposals, which... We'll keep looking at them... They don't change... Mr. Valaiņš, malacis, he is walking into a tributary and a debate, but there is only one question in the debate about the lack of knowledge of the opinion of the municipalities. And mostly such the most prominent municipalities - well, coincidence! - there are the RFMO-led municipalities. Well, well! The same Carnikava. Nobody says that! Or, I don't know, let's see it differently! The same Jelgava. But here, if we look at the last debate on the latest proposals, if we look at the content, there is no significant difference in Valaiņa's debate. Copy - Paste. Next, just put a little bit of a different dimension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U470	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U471	In reality, Mr Valaiņa's proposals are of an absolutely systemic nature. It really points to a serious approach to dealing with issues, because if at the very beginning it was... the reform “design”, that model along with your, National Association, proposed zero level, along with Kazinovsky’s second level, would not have questions. It would be just a question of a real map. But that map could look completely different. The question is only one: this is reform because of reform or reform for people? If people are reformed, then those people are currently living in the 119 municipalities where they would... which should be heard. I do not really understand - you may just regret your time to work in the Saeima. For example, I do not believe that most of the issues that we are dealing with here, including amendments to the Hunting Act and so on (where men and some women are arguing here for hours), would be serious. Only one question is about values, about priorities and about access to politics. It's just that, and you, with your presentations, simply demonstrate very clearly both your values and your attitude towards people living in Latvia - no matter where they live. And with those words, go into history, Mr. Cole! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U472	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U473	Yes, Mr Kola, indeed, you are right that these my proposals have been made in accordance with the areas already covered by the law in force. The proposals from the Group of the Greens/Family Union are on the table for what we are proposing to change this proposal for administrative territorial reform. In this regard, I must remind you a little bit of the past - 2009. I have assessed the way in which the reform process took place at that time. Each of these municipalities, including Priekuļu Municipality, had its own merger plan. Each municipality was clearly informed of the benefits and challenges of this reform. None of this has been done at the moment. Already at that time, very many municipalities contested this reform in the Constitutional Court. With this approach, which is now being proposed to VARAM, you can come to the point that all this good work that you are talking about at the moment will just end up with nothing.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U474	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U475	Mr. Cole! You really think how you say that you are making this reform so that there are more Latvians in Latvia? So do you make Dombrava the Dombrava parish in Saulkrasti? So you have a smaller Jelgava than Rezekne? You really are as honest as a stateman to approach this advertisement... for this reform, do you only promote your party and ideology, but are you actually doing something completely different? Be you too, Mr. Cole - you can afford it more than everyone else, you don't have to sit here because of the salary - be a governmentman! Stand above that! Stand above that Dombrava will have his own parish! Be better! Get in history! You can do this, you are young, capable, beautiful, sympathetic. (Laughter) Impression. Medicines cause noise.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U476	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U477	I understand that these political positions may differ. Some prefer the regions within the existing limits, as is the proposal put forward here. There are those that prefer larger regions with greater economic capacity. But I'm doing one thing... Let's say, raise questions. In the previous proposal, Mr Valainis defended the large Priekuļu district with more than 20 000 inhabitants. For the purposes of this proposal... This proposal runs counter to the previous one, which you just as passionately defended. I just... If I support your position, I do not know what to vote on - for the previous proposal or for this proposal - because they are contradictory. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U478	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U479	Why do we have such a chaotic debate both on this proposal and on everyone else for these days? Because we do not have a conceptual view of this reform. We actually destroyed it at first sitting and first question. And why? I may repeat a little, but yet again - Mr Pouce had brought an original view. The view was the following: one level of approximately 40 municipalities with Riga and Jurmala as separate cities. With your logic. Understandably, about 40 development centres, which are the big cities, the common cities, just a village that may not be a city, have not called it. The concept. I'm not in favour of this concept. I believe that democracy is being undermined and that there is not enough efficiency. For democracy in municipalities too much, for an effective country - too little. That is why I have always supported the two-level approach. But in any case it was a conceptual offer. I can like it, don't like it, it doesn't matter right now. There was a logic. How would this concept work or not - we would really see it just back in history. Whether it was the right step or not. Instead of the Saeima talking about whether or not they approve such a concept... Let us assume that this would be confirmed, the further debate on the specific border points on this map would be quite simple. It would be clear that no isolated parish would be any longer, they should join one of the 40 units in one of the development centres. The question is which one? There would be some kind of dispute, but we would have already finished the debate. We would have gone through this debate a long time ago! Instead of looking again for so-called voices and thinking how to push them through, we start to completely break down their concept. We are saying that there will be a zero level, but we are not saying what the function will be at the zero level. We say that there will be a second level, where there will be a special law, but we do not say anything about the functions that will be given to the second level. We make big cities small, small cities big. We're mixing, we're just making a huge chaos. In fact, until we have returned to the conceptual decision that we then see this governance model, everything we are voting here after, all these secondary votes are absolutely after the idea of a legal vote. But it is not ideal for them to be voted, because it cannot be said what is the correct size of municipalities at this mid-level, until we have said what this mid-level, if we have such a level (it is now that we will have an administrative division of three levels)... the functions to be achieved by the medium level. If it has one function, it may be appropriate if it has other functions - it is too big if it has other functions - too little. I just call once again - and I do not know when this will happen, whether the coronavirus has taken us all into quarantine here - before the third reading, it should be agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U480	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U481	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. High Ministers and Fair Ministers... Honourable Ministers (Laughter) , who has arrived after the government sitting for this sitting! I want to go on with what Mr. Schmidt spoke about. I was encouraged by the statements I had before him. In essence, we have finally started to talk about the methodology. In my view, this reform should have been evidence-based methodology, and I am sorry if what I say would seem too theoretical to someone but evidence... In practice, there are two main methods: there is the method of detection and the method of induction. We expected that what will bring us to Parliament and with which we will work at second reading will be a draft law drawn up in evidence based on the method of detection. It proves that the new regions... What is being offered in new regions from the point of view of services, in terms of how entrepreneurship will develop, and in other aspects, in terms of how the education process will take place, that it will be demonstrated, that it will be better in new regions. These functions will be better ensured. Unfortunately, such evidence of the absolutely most of the regions we have not heard, and that is why what my colleague, a group colleague, Viktors Valainis, is to turn on a second method. This is the method of induction that we take each individual region and try to prove that it is not worse in each old region than in the new region. Therefore, there are also some of these controversial proposals that encourage debate and seek this... answers to these questions. That is how I see what we are doing at second reading. Please do not offend that this is the case, because it is really in the interests of the people of our country. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U482	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U483	Colleagues! We are currently debating proposal 146, if I am not mistaken, on Priekuļu District, and during the debate on this proposal it proves once again that the opposition has thrown a roll of parliamentary order into waste. ( Internouncing call.) Because the sorrow is that those poor, those poor - I won't tell you who is in the debate: reform is wrong, Puce is not. But there's one hero, and now suddenly he's going to the trigger and he's defending that hero. The hero's name is Victor. I forgot my last name. Listen, well, stop this stupid thing! ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) Proposal 146. I am 'no' and I will be 'no'. If you think you need to be different, well, forgive me, you need this! A deal? ( Milestones.) You made an oath that you would observe the law (Military words: “Oi, Oi!” ), the laws of the Republic of Latvia and the Treaties! ( Milestones.) And you broke that oath. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U484	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U485	The proposal 146 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U486	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 146. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U487	We are continuing discussions about the newly created county of Cesis. 147. - Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal. It is intended to maintain the Amat district within its existing territory. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U488	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U489	Colleagues! It's about the Amat County. The municipality of Amatas does not agree with the decision of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission on the establishment of Cesis district in the territory of the former Cesis district with the administrative centre in Cesis and invites Members of the Saeima not to support this draft law at second reading. This does not mean that the Amatas novads wants to maintain the status quo, they understand that reform is necessary, and had also come to the Commission with its proposal. Elita Eglīte, the Chair of the Trade Council, had also arrived, but her proposals, ideas, questions, as well as those of Priekuļi, Pārgaujas, Vecpiebalga, Līgatnes, and representatives of Jaunpiebalga were not heard. Their idea was that Cēsu novads should leave the current area and form Priekuļu region, which would include Amatas, Līgatnes, Pārgaujas, Priekuļu, Jaunpiebalga and Vecpiebalga region. Once again, I think colleagues are showing that the consultation process has not taken place in substance. One of the main objections to the Amata region is that it is obvious - and also in the sitting of the Saeima Commission - that there is a misunderstood understanding of who the municipality is. The municipality is perceived as a provider of public services and not as a management body of the territory created by residents living in the territory, representativeness of the population. In this context, the Amatas novads also proposes to approve the reform along with other measures, such as the possibility of submitting electoral associations and not only the political party list to municipal elections if the population of the municipality exceeds five thousand inhabitants. At least in some way, this would guarantee the present small local representation and the principle that, if a person pays taxes, he should also have the opportunity to be represented in the areas and decisions on the use of taxes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U490	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U491	Dear colleagues, First of all, this is a very good proposal, but it is not the main one at the moment. The main thing is that Mr Bondara has suddenly remembered the oath of our Member and the importance of complying with the law of the Republic of Latvia. We all remember, after all, that Mr Bondara respects and respects the laws of the Republic of Latvia, especially the Law on Health Financing, which Mr Bondara together with his colleagues, as we remember, is, well, very respected, isn't it? The Law on Scientific Activities... about universities and several others... But what is the sum of all this? Is it so good that Members have such a short memory, colleagues?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U492	Colleagues, please look at the specific proposal put forward by Mr Valainis. I recall Amendment 147. Name to Member Martin Stein. Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U493	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ministers! Colleagues! Resurrection! I come from Amata, and I can understand people's concerns, misunderstandings and resistance to municipal reform. Reforms are never easy, especially if there is a lot of unknowns, and especially if we realise that this reform of municipalities will have to change for ourselves. I would like to mention a number of benefits for the inhabitants of Amata, if a single county of Cesis is created. As an example, I will take the family in the Amata district of Nietaur. Three children grow up in the family - two young people and a baby. Parents work in paid employment outside the Amata region and in parallel work in domestic production. As a result of the reform, the municipality will have financial opportunities, human resources to form a business support team in the municipality. As a result, people in the local municipality will be able to receive business advice, and the municipality will have the capacity to organise training for young entrepreneurs. The company can expect that, like in Smiltene, for example, this region will also provide more support to local companies. Currently, the municipality of Amata does not offer grant ideas... business grant programs. In the United States of Cesis, there will be a greater opportunity to develop grant programmes. Children and young people will have more opportunities. Currently, the only secondary school in the Amata region is located in Nietaur. Six young people study in 10th grade, with 13 students in all high school. Secondary school has good records in central exams, but extracurricular activities, which are very important for young people, are limited. As a result of the reform, Cesis Municipality has several strong secondary schools, including gymnasiums, which offer both scholarships and various other activities and circles. The implementation of youth policy will also improve, as it has been developed in Cesis region for many years. Family doctor, social workers in Nitour are not present every day. The largest area will have greater possibilities to plan investment in health and also to build social support teams. There are many seniors in the family and neighbors who feel lonely every day. Experts acknowledge that loneliness is the same social problem as poverty. It is important that employees in the municipality are able not only to distribute food parcels, but to provide regular support, organise training and proactively solve problems. It would be important that municipalities are able to visit single seniors several times a year and are able to implement innovative solutions for social protection. The family is also active in one national society, but it is also considering setting up an organisation to bring together active people in the local community who are concerned about environmental issues and promoting active rural life. The largest area will have much greater opportunities for the associations to take part in competitions with their ideas and obtain funding, as the municipality will have more opportunities to organise them. Friends from Riga often visit the family and relax, they appreciate the peace and atmosphere of the countryside, but so far the biggest environmental projects in Nitāur are a natural trail and an outdoor hockey square created by enthusiasts. A larger municipality will be able to develop programmes for local organic farms and environmental projects through resource efficiency. Environmentally friendly farming... Environmentally friendly farming will also need to be carried out as required by global trends, and innovative solutions to climate problems are already being seriously tested and implemented in Cesis district. This direction is where the whole new county of Cesis must move. I call for a vote in favour of a larger county in Cesis, stronger and for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U494	Honourable Members! The Prime Minister and the Ministers of the Government have come to us at this late evening hour, and the Prime Minister wants to make an urgent announcement to the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that we listen to the Prime Minister and declare a technical break without time limit? There is no objection. So a technical break. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U495	Thank you. Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues! Ministers! Yesterday, the World Health Organisation declared this new Covid-19 virus to be a pandemic. In Latvia, as we know, there are 16 confirmed cases, but it is good that all sources of disease are now known. But there has also been a local transmission of the disease. In the case where a Latvian resident had gone abroad, returned sick, without knowing he went to family members and also visited one family member, who is now also sick. We need to understand and accept the fact that this disease is not to be stopped, but it is to be restricted. There are two trajectories that can be taken for this type of virus. We can see this from earlier and other epidemics and pandemics in the world, as well as from the experience of different countries (which are more serious and previously affected than Latvia). One trajectories would be - I draw over that time - that cases of disease reach a high height very quickly and then fall rather quickly, and end somewhere. A second trajectory would be that its height is never reached by various means, with a slower sickness curve, possibly longer, stretched over time. What is to be understood about this sharp duck? This would create an unbearable burden both for our health system and for anyone, no matter how rich the health system, as there would be a very large number of sick people in a very short period of time. No hospital, no healthcare system can handle this. That objective in all such pandemics is to reduce their curve and to extend them over time, and this can be done. In order to limit the spread of this disease and virus, it is vital to limit the possibilities of gathering people together, especially in the next four weeks, within a month before this disease has entered Latvia, as it is said, endemic that it is located in our wider society, because there is no such confirmation at this time. Medicals call this social distance, which means that in just one place there are no too many diseases... people, because if any of them is ill, the number of possible contacts would be less. In order to be able to ensure this necessary social distance in Latvia, in order to limit the possibilities for gathering people, the government decided that we should declare the emergency situation in our country for the next month. The first decisions we have made are aimed at one goal: to reduce and slow down the spread of disease in Latvia, to relax our health care system as much as possible. So by April 14, we physically close all the schools. The Ministry of Education and Science will further specify how distance learning will be carried out and how centralised school examinations will be carried out. We will limit the visits to kindergartens. Those are only those people whose parents can prove in writing that neither they nor family members have been in contact with the so-called contact person from these areas. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “How do you know that?” ) Next. We are putting an end to the educational process of all interests - trainings, competitions and attempts - and we are removing and prohibiting all public events, meetings, moves and pickets, where there would be more than 200 people. That objective, I repeat, is essential to limit the possibility that a person may become infected from a human being, so that we have as few cases as possible where many people are alone. This is the aim of our governments and, in my opinion, of our country. We, as a government, are calling on our citizens not to travel outside the country at all. We call not to move outside the country, but it must be understood that those people who have left the affected area - for them, in the future, those restrictions imposed by medical professionals... of which self-insulation becomes mandatory. It is no longer a voluntary, voluntary question. This is a mandatory measure for citizens. Why? Because the person who has been in these affected areas can unwittingly go around... and transfer this disease to other residents of Latvia. The danger of this disease, as it appears from experience in the world up to now, is not so great for young people or physically healthy people, but the particular risk is for all our seniors and all those who have already suffered from another disease, especially respiratory disease. We need to protect these people, and how to protect them is not to go away, not to bring their disease home. It's about the economy. The government will do its utmost to mitigate any negative consequences for the economy from the situation of this virus. I'm... last night I met at the teleconference here from Riga with the other European Heads of State, including the President of the European Central Bank and the Head of the European Commission. The subject of the withdrawal was the conversation about Covid-19 virus spread in Europe, but the actual conversation was dedicated to... Half is about disease prevention, and half is about economic issues. What everyone has agreed on (and there is no ready solution for anyone) is that everyone will have to work together, namely the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the leaders of the Member States, to protect our businesses from this rapid slowdown, which has already begun in several sectors. Depending on how this virus will spread around the world and what the situation in other countries will be, it could have a larger or smaller effect on the economy, regardless of what happens in Latvia. So it's also necessary to understand, looking at what happened, for example, in China, that they started an outbreak about two months ago and two months later a majority... China is already beginning to return to normal economic circulation, with the exception of the most affected... the area initially affected, which is still under an exceptional regime. This means, perhaps, that our companies have to prepare for about two months of an unknown braking phase, but it is likely that this... this crisis will change in Latvia and Europe and that there would be no reason why our companies would not be able to reinstate themselves once the economy is revived. Our challenge - and it will be a real challenge not only for Latvia but for the European Union as a whole - to help companies, to say, overwintering the difficult times ahead. But we will do our utmost to mitigate the negative effects. Colleagues! That's the thing... there have not been such circumstances in Latvia, none of us have any experience in dealing with such a situation, there are no clear indications, there are just examples that are not good. And if we look at Europe, it seems that in those countries and regions where there is a very large outbreak, their governments are reacting too slowly, limiting the possibilities for gathering people together. We act preventively before it is confirmed that our society... This disease is known to pass from human to human sources. We are adopting rapid measures to reduce this opportunity. But the government alone cannot ensure that everything happens as it should. It is also, of course, the Saeima, the executive power, the medical profession, but most importantly, it is in the hands of the public itself - to work hand in hand with each other. I am convinced of one thing: we will overcome these difficult times by working together. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U496	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister of Government, for coming to the Saeima today. You've been active and accepted... the government has already issued an order to declare the emergency situation. The order has already entered into force. We have also received the document sent by the Cabinet of Ministers. This has already been referred by the resolution to the Commission responsible for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption for the preparation of the draft decision. I invite the Commission to meet tomorrow to form its draft decision, so that tomorrow we can also reconfirm this order of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the announcement of the emergency situation in an emergency sitting. ( Milestones.) Colleagues, this order has already entered into force. The Saeima will only reaffirm this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Wait what does it mean - will it be confirmed again?” (See the box below.) Dear colleagues, Members Adamovich, Pavļuts, Zakaistovs, Lībiņa-Egnere and Beitnere-Le Galla are asking for a break at the Saeima sitting by 10 a.m. on 13 March this year. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! Let us vote for a break before 10 a.m. on March 13! ( Milestones.) Please vote mode! Please get the result! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) On - 52, against - 24, refraining - not. This leads to a break by 10 a.m. on March 13. Please call me! Please register the Members! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the results of registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U497	Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Jānis Iesalnieks, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Rihards Kols... is, Ieva Krapāne, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Linda Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Juta Strīķe, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs, Jānis Vucans and Ivars Zariņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2049-U498	Thank you. Interruption until 10 a.m. on 13 March this year. ( Interruption)
