ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U1	Dear colleagues, Good morning, Members of the Saeima and members of the Saeima, who have come together today in different halls to meet during an emergency meeting of the Saeima. Historically, the first time we work remotely, but we are on our way to e-Europe completely. Dear colleagues, In order for us to come to such a regime today and to work as fully as possible and as safely as possible, our Saeima team – employees – has been working in an extremely intensive mode for one and a half weeks, so they have also worked on holidays, also in very late evening hours. Let's give them thanks – really huge, warm thanks – when you get up! And let us say thank you very much to the Secretary-General and to all the others. (Applause) Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the arrangements in which we will be working today. There will be nuances that will be different from the work we've already used to. So, in view of the state emergency, a number of precautions have been introduced in the Saeima, which you were already informed about yesterday by electronic means. In your e-mails you received not only information about the precautions taken in the Saeima and the premises where the Saeima meeting will take place today, but also information about the progress of the Saeima meeting. Colleagues! For us to be able to work successfully in such a regime, a great deal of discipline, organisation and a great deal of responsibility are expected of all. And now how we're going to work today. Yes, Members of the Saeima are in different premises. Each room shall also include delegated vote counters of the parliamentary groups concerned and a vote counter nominated by non-members. Each room shall also contain forms showing the presence of Members, in which Members indicate their name and their presence at the sitting of the Saeima shall be certified by signature. I invite Members to complete this form by the end of the sitting. At the end of the sitting these forms shall be submitted by the vote counters to the Security Section of the Saeima. In each room there is also a technical officer of the Saeima Administration who will provide you with the necessary support during the sitting. The question of applying for a speech and the order of debate. A Member who wishes to speak about the draft laws submitted shall send information from his Saeima e-mail to the Saeima.sede@sayima.lv indicating whether he will speak "for" or "for". So the name will be given to the Member who will be the first to apply to speak for or against. For the debate, Members are referring only to the question under discussion - to the question under discussion! – by filling in the form “Please name” (as we say, they are green leaves) and by submitting it to the technical staff of the Saeima Administration, who then sends this information to the head of the meeting. Members shall take part in the debates in accordance with the application procedure and shall speak from their place in the Chamber concerned. Colleagues, that's what we're debating. At the start of the speech, the Member shall turn on the microphone. And, colleagues, there's one nuance. Since it is more difficult to clarify when you end your speech during the debate, let us be polite with one another in this emergency situation as well. When you end up speaking, say thank you, and then the chairman of the sitting will know that you have finished your speech and that this is not a break. So thank you for having completed the speech. And when we start the vote, then before the vote I will once again inform you of the voting order. Can we get started? Can we get to work? Thank you. Ten Members' applications have been received before we start work. Members of the Saeima, Feldman, Zālīte-Grosa, Muižniece, Budriķis and others are asking for the speaking time to be reduced, during the debate on the issues to be discussed at the first extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 2 April 2020: to establish that, for the first time, the period of debate is three minutes, and, for the second time, one minute. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) So Members have reservations and we have to vote. Before the vote, I will inform you of the progress of the vote. So the vote takes place in each room separately. Each Member shall name his/her name – aloud his/her name and surname! – and expresses its attitude: “for”, “to” or “abstain”. For example, “Ināra Mūrniece – for.” Voice countr in the room. The vote counters shall then send the results of the vote to the representative of the vote counters, Rihard Kola. Then I will give the floor to Rihards Kola as soon as he has compiled the results of the counting of the votes of the Members. We can start. So, colleagues, we will vote in favour of determining the time of the debate at the first extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 2 April 2020: for the first time – three minutes, once again – one minute. Please call me! Please prepare your voice counters! Let us vote for a deadline for the debate on issues to be discussed by the Saeima at its first extraordinary session on 2 April 2020: for the first time, three minutes, speaking for the second time, one minute! The vote started. ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, I'm calling for seats. We are ready to listen. — Dep. A. Gobzem: “On the procedure... “) voice counters. Please turn on the microphone for Richard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U2	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on reducing the time for debate by three minutes, speaking for the first time, one minute – speaking for the second time: on - 64, against - 24, abstaining - does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U3	Thank you. So the decision has been made. The Time of Debate in This (Dep. A. Gobzem: “On the procedure... There are three minutes, speaking for the first time, one minute – speaking for the second time. Please turn on the microphone for Member Gobzem, who wants to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U4	Dear colleagues, I am speaking not only on my own behalf, but also on behalf of a number of opposition Members, whom I have just contacted by telephone. That is, before this vote, I was the one who said that I was 'no' and that is why we voted. But the same point of view was also ready for other opposition Members who informed us that it was technically impossible to listen to such views at this point in time... This means that it would be technical to wait a minute for the Member who says he is "for" or "for" a question that has been raised... should wait to prepare green leaves, collect them... or they are, or they are... Since I was at the Saeima Hall, I could do it orally and very quickly. We saw for ourselves how long the vote was... and the vote was counted for almost half an hour per vote. I call on the coalition to return to a sensible solution, not to make this day a farce in this Chamber. In general, a Covid-19 test has been carried out by all Members in the Saeima. It's been negative...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U5	Could you very briefly formulate your proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U6	My proposal is to return to normal. Otherwise, this sitting will be longer than the crisis itself.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U7	So Mr Gobzem calls on us to hold the Saeima sitting in the Saeima sitting room, which brings together all the Members of the Saeima. Colleagues, this is not a vote. We've made a decision... The Saeima Bureau has taken a decision by contacting Members in contact with the group presidents to hold the Saeima sitting, meeting in separate Chambers. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda, approval and termination of the parliamentary term. Communication on John Butan 13. The Saeima shall approve the mandate of a Member. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications – Member Janīna Kursīte–Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U8	And 13. Certificate of death of Saeima Member Juta Strike... At its meeting on 31 January 2019, the Saeima approved the mandate of Janis Butans as a member, while the elected Members from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Region perform their duties as ministers. In accordance with the order of the Saeima, Jānis Butāns has been invited to join the Saeima on a permanent basis, and he has agreed to it. In its meeting on 31 March of this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications assessed all documents received and therefore declares that Jānis Butāns 13. The Saeima is composed not for a time, but on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U9	Thank you. We have heard the announcement. On the agenda – draft decision “On Evas Mārtāžas 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for a period of time, while Members elected from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Region shall perform their duties as ministers.’ On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications – Member Janīna Kursīte–Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U10	Colleagues! Dear colleagues, On the basis of the first and third paragraphs of Article 6 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Board of Mandates, Ethics and Application has prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On Evas Mārtāžas 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for a period of time, while Members elected from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Region shall perform their duties as ministers.’ From the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Area 13. Farlis Linkait has been elected to the Saeima, who has set 13. the parliamentary mandate for the term of office of the Minister. The next candidate, in this case the candidate, is Eva Mārtuza, who has agreed to take on 13 in this constituency. The mandate of a member of the Saeima for a temporary term of office. Please support the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U11	Thank you. I invite Eva Mārtuz to make an oath or solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U12	As a member of the Saeima, I solemnly promise to be faithful to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only language of the country, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and for the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U13	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. So the promise is signed. Please call me! Please prepare your voice counters! We will vote on the draft decision on Evas Mārtūžas 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for as long as Members elected from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties”! Please vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone. On behalf of Vote counters: Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U14	Colleagues! The result of the vote on the draft decision “On Evas Mārtūžas 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for a period of time, while Members elected from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Region shall perform their duties as ministers.’ Result of the vote: 88 votes against and abstains. Supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U15	Thank you. Decision adopted. Congratulations to the Members of the Saeima Eva Mārtuz! I invite you to take a seat in the Saeima sitting room! (Applause) Dear colleagues, We're going on. On the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust. The draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Vitenbergs. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U16	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! We live in really interesting times, difficult times and times of emergency. However, I am fully convinced that we are all working together – the government, the Saeima and society in general... that we will successfully overcome all this. Our country and, of course, the government's ultimate goal is to limit the prevalence of Covid-19 in Latvia and to protect the health and life of every citizen. The government has therefore adopted various restrictions that apply both to society as a whole and to business. We have taken a number of decisions to help our businesses and employers in these difficult times, so to say, overwintering with various forms of support, including partial support. We will, of course, return to normal daily activities as soon as it is safe from a health point of view for all of us. Our aim is not to remain in this situation; our aim will of course be to return to normal. But to be able to return to normal, it is very important for every citizen of the country to take all the restrictions and recommendations of the epidemiologists seriously. By following these instructions, we will protect our health, the health of our loved ones, our neighbor, our city, the health of the village population, and ultimately save lives. Under these circumstances, the government is currently part-time, without the Minister for Economic Affairs. And I'm sure the government... It is necessary to carry out this post, because a great many decisions that need to be made relate precisely to the economic sector, to the business sector. We need to think about how we will get out of the crisis, and that is why we need a full-fledged Minister for Economic Affairs, approved by the Saeima vote. I nominated today the candidate for the position of Minister for Economic Affairs, Janis Wittenberg, from the political party KPV LV. Jānis Vitenbergs has successfully led the work of the Saeima Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission since the beginning of this parliamentary term. Under his leadership, the commission has examined a number of important draft laws, amendments to the laws led by the Ministry of Economics. The candidate minister is familiar with the areas of responsibility and needs of the sector, and will be able to take an immediate full part in the work of the government. Jānis Vitenbergs has also received the necessary allowance for working with the state secret; it is very weightful, because as a member of the commission he has been working at the Saeima National Security Commission since February 2019. Based on previous cooperation with Jānis Vitenbergs, I conclude myself that he is able to argue his opinion in a reasonable and logical way, achieving extensive solutions in the best interests of our country's economy. So, of course, I call on you to support Janis Wittenberg as Minister for the Economy. Finally, I would like to thank all Members of the Saeima - both positions and opposition - who, despite the difficult situation, are continuing their work. I know that several parliamentary commissions are already actively using video conferencing, so that work does not stop and decisions that are so important to the state are made in good time. Today's sitting is also proof that, in times of difficulty, we are not putting down our hands and giving up, but looking for and finding the solutions that our country and people need. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U17	Thank the Prime Minister. Mr. Kariņš, I've been told by smart devices that you're leaving immediately after your speech. Are they true? Will you be late during the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U18	I will stay as long as I can get to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U19	Thank you. So the Prime Minister remains in the Chamber. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U20	Good morning, dear colleagues! Mr. Prime Minister! President-in-Office of the Saeima. So the young Conservatives have consistently stood up for an uncompromising rule of law and national security issues, and the young Conservatives have always considered it necessary to be honest, professional and state-loving people in high state positions. Especially in these times of crisis, when the government and the Saeima decide on the amount of unprecedented aid to businesses in the amount of several billion euros, plus bearing in mind that the Ministry of Economics is responsible for energy assets of national security and strategic importance – i.e. electricity, gas market, Latvenergo, Conexus and so on. It is clear that until now national security issues have not been resolved to the end. Two days ago, we had a good remote meeting with the Prime Minister and representatives of the KPV LV, and we were promised that we would... that actions will be taken to mitigate the risks of national security in the Ministry of Economics. We will, of course, follow the course and, for our part, will also help the Minister for Economic Affairs to come up with decisions that will result in proactive and intelligent action in this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U21	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U22	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! On behalf of the political group, I will express our whole nurturing opinion on the candidate. Our group cannot support this candidate. Perhaps Jānis Vitenbergs is a good person, but we know nothing about his economic programme, his vision and possible solutions. We also know nothing about his knowledge, skills and economic skills, and to vote in favour, honourable colleagues, is to take responsibility for this person, for this candidate. We cannot take responsibility for John Wittenberg. At the same time, I can assure you that our group is thinking of a national and government vision and draft laws that will tackle various problems in our country in a crisis situation, and we are going to support them. Let us perhaps try to complement them creatively, but we cannot vote on this particular candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U23	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U24	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister. Highly honored Head of the Saeima sitting! All colleagues! The Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, aware of the fact that today there are very difficult crisis conditions and there are very... which has had a very dramatic impact on our business... In the future too, this situation does not look very bright and will have to find solutions. As we pointed out several weeks ago, it is very bad if, under these circumstances, the government is working without an economic minister, which is clearly one of the most important ministers in the government at the moment. It's not normal that this situation... that the Ministry is headed by the Minister of the Interior, sitting on two chairs in this situation. That's why we also think... and it is very right that, let us say, the horses do not change to the crossing. Mr Witenberg has led the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, has been in some connection with the minister of his political group before. At the moment, it would be right if he continued to do so, and we too will support Mr Witenberg's candidacy. Now, in our view, we are giving this advance support to Janis, but in the future it is certainly... We want to see a clear vision from Mr Wittenberg already today, so that Mr Wittenberg is already taking the job today and clearly states what support will be given to entrepreneurs today. We also need to understand what will happen after a month, which will take place after two, how the Latvian economy, already in a dramatic situation, will be saved. That is why we are not sure, now that we are working constructively, that we are not sure about the defenders of the 'uncompromising rule of law', but Mr Wittenberg is in this situation and we are also calling for support. We will give our votes in favour of this Minister for Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U25	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U26	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! I'll have before I discuss the particular... I will give my opinion on the candidate in question, another small introduction. That is, the conditions under which we lost the previous Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. In fact, such an unprecedented case, which does not give permission to national secrecy, is taken away. It is during the Minister's duties, which I believe is a serious situation, which should be made public to the extent possible, at least to the Members of the Saeima. What is the crime that the Minister has committed exactly in the performance of his duties as Minister for the Economy? If we do not provide such an explanation, if we do not also provide this explanation to the former Minister of Economics himself or his party, or any other person who is aware of the circumstances of the case, we are actually asking a valid question – one could start to ask – whether the security authorities are at some point overexpressing here... their functions. Well, if it does not affect democratic processes. This question, including further decisions, should be answered. As regards Janis Wittenbergs in particular as a candidate for the post of Minister for Economic Affairs. If we were supposed to be in such a time of peace, I would certainly have a lot of questions. I would like to hear from John, just as my colleagues said, an outline and a vision of his vision of the economy, about the most important things that the country needs to do. We are not in a time of peace. We see how we are meeting today, how difficult it is for us to make one vote, and clearly I agree that the country must be a minister for the economy at this point. In fact, a known crime is that so much time has passed and the crisis has been going on for so many weeks not only without the Minister, but also with the Secretary of State. This should be the answer for those who have created such a situation in our Parliament, and it is not the opposition, as we know. So I am remote, if you can say so, you have contacted John and expressed your opinion on the deformities that we have done today in providing support to entrepreneurs. I'm heard. John has a similar view. If John is prepared to adjust it in future government decisions, at least to encourage correction, I cannot support him today. The main things that we take for these soft start support and for the economic support that is being provided will urgently need to be removed from the fact that board members are unable to receive the soft start compensation. It is urgent to correct the fact that a company is good only if it had some turnover in March (a year ago), as it says, but if it was opened in April, then nothing can be received, no matter how much tax it paid. Tax debts – 150 euros... A funny number! Because it's primarily national... I would ask for time to be combined, if I may.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U27	Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U28	For example, the point that, if the debt was EUR 150 or more a year ago, the company does not have to be supported by a cut-off is absurd because, for forgiveness, it is the national capital companies that... We have not accumulated funds for centuries. This will be a problem. And a number of other things that we are doing foolishly today to save the Latvian economy. In essence, the idling aid is not... is not meant as a social benefit. It must be aid that allows the economic backbone to survive this time and so on. There are a lot of questions, a lot of things have been trodden up. I know John... In big trains, we have a similar view, so I'm going to support you today, as you say, in the credit. But let us come back to all the other issues after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U29	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U30	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, chair of the sitting! Mr. Prime Minister! I'm not gonna take your time long. Didzis Schmidt has already said a great deal, and there would, of course, be much more to say, which applies to the support of entrepreneurs in this crisis. But, John, this time... My vote will also be 'yes', although, as you know, I do not support this government, but I will certainly support your candidacy in these times. I wish you not only good luck, but also, as you have done before, to listen to the businessmen, to be hearing. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the ministers of the KPV LV who are currently working for the government for the fact that you have actually listened to the recommendations of the opposition, taken into account them and also put them into practice, not only in words but also in works. John, I hope that our cooperation with you in this context will be similar to that with other KPV LV ministers. Thank you. I also call on the others in these circumstances to support Mr Wittenberg's candidacy, given how much we really need the Minister for Economic Affairs at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U31	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U32	Dear colleagues, Well, I'm... Personally about John Wittenberg, who has been our colleague for more than a year, I have never heard anything wrong. In general, according to the comments of his colleagues, he is a good and cool man of all kinds. But colleagues as well as my colleague Didzis Schmidt have said, well, even in a time of peace, we would like our economy to be guided not only by a good and cool but also by a professional person. But we don't have times of peace today. We have times of crisis. And the economy... We are talking about a crisis that is likely to be as severe as in 2009. The Minister of Economics is the second most important person in the government after the Minister of Health. I think we... not only are we all, as Members of the SACCAN Group and my fellow Members, I think that the whole society would like to see in this post, now, really professional with a deep understanding of the economy – both in general and in the Latvian economy – of people with education and experience. Here, I'm sorry, but with the fact that man is cool, it's not enough. Unfortunately, we do not see enough in this candidate... neither education nor experience. Therefore, in my voter's capacity, I cannot support such a candidate in any way. It is not stated anywhere that a minister, a minister for the economy or another minister, should be a representative of a particular party, a particular political group. You are free, dear coalition, choose. We really don't lack people in Latvia... the economy and business of professionals. You were free to choose one of these people. And you have chosen this on the basis of the political logic of your coalition. And for that, I don't know what price, but I'm afraid that some price will be paid by the whole Latvian society, and this will be the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U33	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U34	Hello, Prime Minister! Members of the Saeima! We will, as you have heard, support Mr Wittenberg's candidacy as Minister for Economic Affairs - and that is why he can move to work right now. We are in a crisis situation, and there is already a range of tasks that he should do as an economic minister. The first is, of course, business support. The fact that the industries were initially identified has already proved itself as an error. Entrepreneurs, in the hope of receiving immediate aid to save their economic activities, are already disappointed when they see that the criteria are complex, in practice unfulfilled. There are a number of tasks that need to be corrected. Big Smith has already mentioned a few. For example, if an economic operator has not worked for a full year, it cannot be demonstrated that there is a sufficient fall in turnover; the question of remuneration of board members and the support of state-owned companies is idle. The second big block is, of course, also to help; I will say so, to the Ministry of Finance and the government as a whole, to assess the contribution of public funds, including in state capital companies and specifically airBaltic. The public is aware that the government is currently planning to invest 150 million in the company. There is no reason, at least the public can see why this should be done exactly to the extent that it should be done right now and whether it will, in essence, save the situation in the company. At the same time, the fact that many small and medium-sized enterprises do not receive sufficient support cannot be accepted. But the crisis will come to an end, and here we have to say that one major sector for which the Minister of Economics will have to answer and provide concrete solutions is energy. Let us not forget your political commitment to abolish the mandatory procurement components. It's been like a hot poplar so far, which you've put out of your hand, but there's no solution. The second question. We will be following very closely the policy of the previous minister not to allow the construction of a LNG terminal in Skulte if it creates additional charges for the public if it creates another OIC. So that is a few comments and a task of work for you as an economic minister in the near future. I also wish I had success and was firmly engaged in the government!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U35	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U36	Hello, colleagues! I will not support Mr Witenberg's candidacy as Minister for Economic Affairs, and I will explain. Not because I would have some form of annoyance towards John, but there are other – more important – reasons. At this time of crisis, we cannot afford to approve a person who will have to join in without such an objective life experience. That's the number one. Number two. In a time of crisis, as is currently the case, all responsibility for the economy in the country should lie with Prime Minister Kariņš, who is sitting in this Chamber, and not with anyone else. Just and just for Prime Minister Kariņš. He must draw up a plan for economic recovery, and that is the direct responsibility of the Prime Minister. That's two numbers. Number three: the removal of the previous Minister for Economic Affairs from the crisis. It is absolutely clear that these were the political games that were probably initiated by the New Unity itself, because to give the Minister a pardon and after a couple of... In fact, after less than a year, this tolerance to take away must be very serious crimes to do so. We don't know about that. The first to remove the tolerance was told by the journalists, and the Prime Minister pretended he didn't know anything. Which other country is that? None. It was a political game during the crisis. Therefore, in today's circumstances, I would call on Prime Minister Kariņš to take responsibility for the economic adjustment, take responsibility for the abolition of OICs from today – not to put it to the length of questions – and help all those who have suffered, all businessmen and so on, not just close people. Why is Prime Minister Kariņš so generous and ready to approve Jānis Vitenbergs' candidacy, in my opinion? Therefore, to be, to be put to the next huge economic problems that await Latvia. Let us listen carefully to what Prime Minister Kariņš said about the potential economic minister, what quality is. The only one that was named – the ability to formulate thought. It was the only quote from the Prime Minister. I am sorry, the ability to formulate thought is not the most important issue. The most important issue at the moment is to help entrepreneurs, to help society as a whole, including Mr Kariņš, by abolishing the OIC already today. These are my arguments why I will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U37	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U38	Hello, colleagues! My group's colleagues have already said that the Union of Greens/farmers will support the candidacy of Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Wittenberg, by voting in favour, but this will be a vote in advance. The Covid-19 virus, perhaps we can win by closing the boundaries. We will only be able to revive the economy by finding a reasonable way to open these borders. First in the Baltics, then in the European Union and then in the world. With this, the Prime Minister will have to work with the Minister for Economic Affairs from today, working in the face of sweats. Good luck in that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U39	Thank you. I closed the debate. Prime Minister, would you like to add something to this debate? Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! Please prepare your voice counters. We will vote on the draft decision “On Expression of Trust by Minister for Economics Janis Vitenbergs”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, Please, please! Please turn on the microphone for Richard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U40	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision ‘On expressing confidence to the Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Vitenbergs’: for – 69, against – 6, abstaining – 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U41	Thank you. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Minister for Economics Janis Witenbergs. (Applause) Thank you to the Prime Minister, who is going to carry out his duties in the government. We are sending you the Minister for Economic Affairs. Work! We are also continuing our work. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law tabled by Member Muižnieces, Feldman, Asheraden, Lībiņa-Egnere, Teirumnieks and Snore be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Anita Muižniece, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U42	Hello, colleagues! I will be very brief about the substance of this proposal. The proposal is designed to deal with parents who are currently receiving parental benefits. If there is a situation where, due to the consequences of an emergency (e.g. insolvency of an undertaking, total cessation of activity) for this parent, the beneficiary of the parental benefit has no chance of returning to work, the receipt of parental benefit will continue until the end of the exceptional situation and one month thereafter, on the understanding that the exceptional circumstances are also such that it may not be so easy to find a job in another undertaking. I therefore call on my colleagues to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U43	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, “Law on the Activities of Institutions in an Extraordinary Situation related to the Distribution of Covid–19”, be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U44	Yeah, colleagues, you hear that? I have one reflection on this draft law, and I will also submit proposals further to this draft law. I would ask colleagues to think about it now. Consequently, those penalties. One is to increase the penalties, and of course the penalties work very well against those who should act against them – people who want to obey the law. But there is, of course, a large group of people who are not really interested. We all remember a situation where the press described very extensively about the sales of Central Market illegal cigarettes, which have penalties of tens of thousands... administrative penalties. There is no difference between them, whether they have 10, 20, or 50 thousand, and they do not intend to pay the penalty either. With regard to the Covid-19 sufferers, it is already clear at the moment... There's a situation where there are people against whom these penalties... The fines will obviously not work, because they simply have nothing to say to them. In this case, my proposal - and what is the lack of this law - that it is necessary to restore administrative arrest for those who have been quarantined, who are Covid-19 positive and cannot walk around. Not only to impose a fine on them, but the fact that the local government police or the State police can impose administrative arrest for 14 days, i.e., by forced isolation of these people from the surrounding society. Otherwise, there have already been such situations at present. I've been told that two... Two Covid-19 positive patients quietly after being informed that they are positive, after all the information that there is quarantine and so on, they quietly continue their daily lives, declaring that they are not affected by the disease. And you can tell me what punishment you want if he takes that position and if this punishment doesn't work for him, then the situation is rather sad. Therefore, I believe that this draft law needs to be substantially supplemented in order for it to work. I have prepared such proposals and will also submit them for further reading of this draft law. I am against such a draft law as it is currently drafted. But I, the honourable Speaker of the Saeima... the Head of the sitting... I am not voting, but I am expressing my position on why I am 'no'. But I do not have a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U45	Thank you. The vote is therefore not maintained. So the bill... Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law is submitted to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Mr Stepanenko wanted to raise this point on the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I wanted to talk about the procedure on the previous issue, but probably some time has passed. I called for this draft law to be passed on to the Legal Commission as a joint committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U47	Thank you, but it is not a procedural issue, and we have already dealt with this issue. Thus, the draft decision “On the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 25 March 2020 No. Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of 22 October 2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (Single CMO Regulation) (OJ L 299, 16.11.2007, p. 1). This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Order No 138 of 31 March 2020 140 amending Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 Promulgating an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U48	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At its meeting on 1 April 2020, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined amendments to the Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 promulgating an emergency. A total of four orders were submitted, but the most significant amendments... in an emergency condition... I'll name you here. Of course not everyone, but the most important. The first is therefore the limited provision of health services, with the exception of life-saving health services. It is also prohibited to export medicines intended for the Latvian market to third countries. Second. The activities of the clubs have been discontinued (for example, the activities of sports clubs). Third. An enlarged range of institutions entitled to increase the number of overtime hours per week by 60 hours and receive funds for their payment. Four. It is established that the State Border Guard transfers data on persons who have arrived from abroad to the State Police for control of such persons. Five. It is also stipulated that only grocery shops, pharmacy, optics shops, animal feed shops, hygiene and farm shops, as well as construction and gardening shops, press outlets, vaccination offices are allowed to work in shopping centres on holiday. The Ministry of Economy has been tasked with establishing criteria for the establishment of trade centres. Six. It is also stipulated that no fees and charges apply for Covid-19 information phone 8345. Point 7. Organise public consultations as specified in environmental regulatory enactments at a distance; the time when an emergency situation occurs in the country is not counted in the time limits of the projects initiated. It has also been established that the State Revenue Service may suspend control measures, including those at the stage of contestation for the period of emergency. In addition, the authorised driving time is increased from 9 to 11 hours. Budgetary expenditure linked to the limitation of the Covid-19 and the management of its consequences is identified as a result of an increase in the budget deficit. In turn, European and foreign funding is used for development projects. It has also been established that decisions... a decision on the implementation of education programmes at the education institutions of the Ministry of the Interior shall be taken by the Minister of the Interior. It is stipulated that pre-school institutions may lay down rules on behaviour that are binding on other persons in these institutions. It is established that municipal grants and unused funds for children's weekends may be used to feed poor, disadvantaged and large families. Certain persons are not required to have private events, with the exception of funerals to be held outdoors, ensuring a distance of two metres between persons. It is established that persons inside and outside public spaces must respect each other's two-metre distance. At the same time, public indoors and outdoors may have no more than two... no more than two persons may be present. People who live... This condition of social distance inside and outside public spaces may be waived by persons living on the same holding, by parents and by their minor children, if they do not reside on the same holding, as well as by persons performing work or official duties. Persons who have a laboratory confirmed Covid-19 diagnosis and whose health condition permits home treatment are required to inform the service provider about the infection with Covid-19 when requesting and receiving the service, as well as about the risk of infection before any direct physical contact with another person. The Minister of Defence shall also have the right to decide on the provision of support of the National Armed Forces to the National Border Guard and the State Police, as well as to the civil protection system, when assessing the impact of the request made by the Authority on the implementation of the direct tasks of the National Armed Forces. It is established that the State Police, upon request of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre, requests and electronic communications operators provide information about the telephone number and the location of the subscriber of a particular person, if the person concerned has been designated as an infected person or a contact person. Those data may only be used for epidemiological investigations. The Commission, having heard the reports of the institutions, considered these additional restrictions and conditions to be justified, appropriate and necessary. I therefore call on the Saeima, on behalf of the Commission, to support the draft decision submitted.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U49	Thank you to the rapporteur. Dear colleagues, Members Jušas, Feldmans, Muižniece, Znotiņš and Eglitis ask for the extraordinary sitting on 2 April to be held without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Let's continue the sitting. The floor will be discussed by the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U50	Hello, colleagues! Thank you for your willingness to organise your work in such a way as to protect your health and the health of your employees and to participate not only in decisions that the Cabinet is grateful to you, but also in your example of stopping the infection Covid-19. I have been delegated from the Cabinet of Ministers to provide justification for these amendments to the Emergency Order. The rapporteur set out very precisely the main changes. I would like to highlight in particular some of them which have also been the subject of greater and wider discussions and of counter-versusions in society. First, that is, on the restriction of scheduled and outpatient healthcare services. The government constantly balances decisions between security... between public health security and economic activity. Because we are very well aware that these restrictions must be as strict and not as strict as is necessary right now. The situation is changing dynamically, and therefore healthcare institutions, doctors and patients are generally recognised as one of the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups of society for several reasons when assessing epidemiological data and analysing expert advice. Medicalians because it is actually the most important resource that can help both stop the epidemic and treat people who are ill, and also because the risk of a medical worker becoming a vector of the new coronavirus, a multiplier, is high enough when working in several workplaces. Patients, on the other hand, are by default the most vulnerable group, whose infection may result in far more severe disease progression. That is why, following expert advice, we have temporarily reduced, until 14 April, those scheduled and outpatient healthcare services in both public and private health treatment facilities, while maintaining a sufficiently wide range of services available, including both acute and emergency medical care, oncological care for patients, care for pregnant women and manipulations that would threaten a person with a permanent disability, including diagnostic services. We are aware that such restrictions must be very carefully assessed because, by prolonged restrictions, we can, of course, face other consequences if a person... In addition to the coronavirus, other diseases are still present when there is a need to provide assistance in good time. That is why the limit is now two weeks. The second is related to this two-metre... and prohibition of assembly. As I have already mentioned, the government looks carefully at the situation day after day, even at lunchtimes. Looking at how part of society (not everyone, I have to say) behaved and chose to act on holiday, but while going on leisure in the open air enough, it was decided to ban more than two people from gathering without respecting this two-metre distance... or members of one household. When assessing the ban on shops in supermarkets, we looked at the experience of other countries, and in this case we took Germany as a sample, which did not restrict them to places of sale related to food for humans or animals, hygiene, optometry and also pharmacy. I would like to assure you that the Latvian government's leadership in taking decisions in the crisis is exactly as follows: first of all, it is the recommendation of Infectologists and Epidemiologists, then we ask... and look at how restrictions can ensure that these recommendations are complied with, how we can do so, as far as possible, as little economic injury is possible in this situation, and then a political decision is followed. Thank you. That would be all for me this time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U51	Thank you to the Minister for Health. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U52	Yes, thank you to the Minister for her presentation. The rapporteur, too, presented himself quite extensively. I would like to touch on those issues that do not appear in this report, and I would like to call on the government in the future to pay particular attention to the issue of local authorities and what is happening directly in local governments. It's all very well – there's a focus on medical staff, I completely agree. The same emphasis is placed on the protection of older people, especially those at risk. Here we can take one example. There are 6000 people in Riga who have home care. For these 6000 people who need home care... Let's say, face protections (face masks) are 1500 for the entire Department of Welfare of the Riga City Council, for all these institutions that deal with it... Also, of course, if we are talking about material reserves, we have to think about how to help municipalities where it has not really worked, but where there is a very large number... There should also be a clear action plan. We have seen the situation now... a shelter situation where there was an outbreak. But there must be a clear action plan, which is not the case at the moment, for others... Let's take, for nurses, for day centres that are now closed, for groups of apartments where you live... What happens if any of these... Is that so? There must also be some vision, some guidelines, because there is currently no government report for local authorities on how to deal with it. A very important issue, too, is the length of time for municipalities to have this right as well... Understand the situation – museums, cultural houses, all... kindergartens are currently under-mode. At the moment, the situation is that if we follow the law, then these people must, in principle, be laid off, because they cannot pay their wages because they are simply not working. And there are so many! If there is no such regulation in the near future... And it's April... is pay time... It's about to start... There is an urgent need to address this issue, to give local authorities the opportunity... like the state of its own capital companies, which do not operate... pay off money because otherwise these people will have to be released and they will become clients of the social budget. I think this would not be the right thing at the moment. Therefore, colleagues, I call on the government to address these issues in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U53	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U54	I thank the Minister for her presentation. It is true that it is not easy to find a balance between public health safety and economic activity in this situation. But! One call is indeed to provide a detailed explanation of why it is necessary, including arguments, before the government decides to extend the emergency to up to three months. Because of its nature, especially on the business side, its reaction was, of course, very negative, especially if it also saw that the State’s promised aid was not granted as smoothly as the entrepreneurs expected. They hoped for that, they counted on it! If there is a plan to extend the emergency, then there must also be new aid measures, in particular for those entrepreneurs who are still trying to work. And, of course, we also need to look at what other countries are doing. One example that entrepreneurs also mention is Poland, where, if the businessman is still working, the country partially covers labour costs and taxes. We can, of course, now be pleased that 88 per cent of tax execution has been at the end of March, but it must be understood that March has been an economically still very active month, the next month will be very difficult, much worse. And so if a businessman does not yet lay off his employees but is trying to work, then the country also needs to put it on its shoulders to do so, and labour tax relief is one of the initiatives that entrepreneurs also offer for their own. So I'm asking you to consider it. On public health safety. Based also on practical examples, there is a call to find means to enable you to provide automatic or much wider Covid-19 analysis... tests for a particular age group, such as people aged 60 and over; you also indicate that it is a risk group. At present, if a person cannot prove that he has had contact with a Covid-19 infected person, then the tests must be paid or sent to a family doctor. And often that family doctor is the only one in the region. If a person is really ill, he or she may also be isolated. For there are cases of coming from abroad son, daughter, relative, who has no symptoms, but who can visit this older family member. And if this is not proven by the Covid-19, then those 80 euros from this elderly person must be demanded. They have a particularly important speed... So I'm calling for it to be resolved. And now the last one. A lot of initiatives are already coming from the public... that prices should be limited for groups of first-needed products... Of course, this is not possible under free market conditions, but communication services... and the call is for the government to work with the communication companies to not switch off without warning the means of communication, especially now that many things happen remotely.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U55	Thank you. Colleagues, we will allow those who have applied to the debate to debate. Mr Dombrovskis, who wants to talk about the procedure, will then be given the floor. Name for Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U56	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Members of the Saeima! Also, in representing government decisions, I... I wanted two accents in the Supplement to the Ordinance of 31 March... They are mainly related to the education process. And right away, the fact that the cooperation mechanism is really very important in the distance learning process, which... is currently not only between the Ministry, but also between municipalities... And I'll say right away that in the process... Thank you very much to the Latvian Municipal Union, which deals with many issues together with the Ministry of Education and Science, and therefore these technological issues, as well as kindergarten work issues, are addressed optimally. And just about the work of pre-school institutions, there's this one as well... one of the additions. I would like to draw attention to all parents that only on-call groups can still operate in kindergartens and there are still very strict conditions regarding the need to have a doctor card if one of the parents has been in self-insulation or quarantine, and there must also be a condition that the child cannot be looked after elsewhere. And it is important that the kindergarten can also lay down its binding rules on restrictions on the movement of third parties in the kindergarten. This also applies to every parent. And the other. The last amendment adopted a point on the holiday. I'll pay attention... It is worth noting that the holiday grant has three specific features: first, it targets the low-income, poor and large families; second, it can be extended beyond 1-4. class, but also up to class 9... to those target groups; thirdly, it applies to each of the learners present is declared in the administrative area concerned. And I draw attention to the fact that this money can only be spent on catering. So – hot lunch or dry pack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U57	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Science. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U58	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ministers! With regard to what the Minister has just said... the question is about pre-school institutions, where... At present, smaller districts may not have this problem, but in larger cities it could be in every sense, especially in the city of Riga – that when operating kindergartens in this watchkeeping mode... Of course, we trust that these children who are brought to kindergartens... and that the evidence of the parents in these signs is true and honest... But the workers of these kindergartens must get to these kindergartens! Currently, all... Most of these incentives were extended to staff serving and working in kindergartens – teachers, nurses and chefs alike... and so on, and so on. Their wages were not the biggest of them before. And so getting him to these kindergartens, if they still have to go there with several public vehicles, is quite difficult, and then it can happen that at some point this person will simply be unable to get to the kindergarten physically. And that's very important because we are aware that these on-call groups usually contain people who... Currently there are these front lines in the first row. They are people in our service, they are people in the health system, and their children need to be cared for, but we put these children to a certain extent at a low risk. Therefore, I think that this should be thought of at the moment by the administration that runs the city of Riga; it should be thought about this and perhaps find this opportunity together with the Ministry of Education and Science. I am not just talking about the city of Riga; I think other cities have a similar situation. So... How to create this... and mitigate these risks... And perhaps you should also think about it, so that these staff working in pre-school institutions can supply these personal protective equipment in some way, so that they too are adequately equipped to work with everything... I think, too, with the most vulnerable... also with this group of children including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U59	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please turn on the microphone for Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, who wanted to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U60	Yeah, thank you. Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. There have already been two times when there was a question of whether Members might have objected... And looking at... I'm so aware that the Saeima's main... plan... In the Chamber... You said that Members did not object... Well, yes... I understand, you can only see whether... Objections... Maybe... There were only members of the political group who are currently sitting in the main sitting room of the Saeima. I got a big request. I see an infringement of the procedure here. I am asked not to repeat this practice and to make sure that Members of all political groups do not really object to each particular question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U61	Thank you. Colleagues! We're working here with new procedures and a new system. It will obviously take time for us to adjust and adapt. Thank you for pointing out this situation. We will now talk to moderators in the Chambers so that they follow the reactions of Members and Members and give us information here, too, to the Saeima Chamber. Thank you once again for drawing your attention. Now we're going to discuss it with the moderators. This also requires greater involvement of Members in the Saeima. Thank you. Mr Rancan, is there anything to add before the vote on the draft decision?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U62	There is nothing to add. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U63	Please call me! Please prepare your voice counters. We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 25 March 2020 No. Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of 22 October 2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (Single CMO Regulation) (OJ L 299, 16.11.2007, p. 1). This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Order No 138 of 31 March 2020 140 amending Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 promulgating an emergency! Please vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Colleagues! Please, please! Please turn on the microphone for Richard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U64	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 25 March 2020 No. Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of 22 October 2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (Single CMO Regulation) (OJ L 299, 16.11.2007, p. 1). This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Order No 138 of 31 March 2020 140 amending Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 Promulgating the emergency situation: 86, 1 and 1 do not.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U65	Thank you. Decision adopted. On the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. In the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! Please prepare your voice counters! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Colleagues! Please, please! Please turn on the microphone for Richard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U66	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”: 83, against – 3, refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U67	Thank you. Decision adopted. Decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs of the Saeima Member Normunds Gunna. Does one of the Members wish to debate? Please call me! Please prepare your voice counters! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs of Normunds Gunna, the Member of the Saeima! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Colleagues, pay attention! Please turn on the microphone for Richard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U68	Honourable Members! The result of the vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs of Normunds Gunna, Member of the Saeima: 86 - in favour, against and abstain from - does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U69	Thank you. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas to the Legal Commission. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U70	Dear colleagues! I would like to call on you to vote against the approval of Juris Jušas for work in the Legal Commission. And I'll explain why. Juris Jušas is currently a judge in criminal proceedings. As the Legal Commission, the Members of the Saeima present in the Commission actually have the opportunity, at least in theory, to influence the judiciary by various political decisions. In view of the fact that Juris Jušaks is a person to be tried, it should not be permitted that Juris Jušaks is on the committee, which may influence decisions relating to the judiciary, which are prepared by the Legal Commission and directed further to the sitting of the Saeima. I would agree with the approval of Jura Jušas by any other parliamentary commission, but the Legal Commission has direct contact with the judiciary, as it says, under which the hammer is currently a criminal case of Jura Jušas. These are my arguments why I call on Members of Parliament to vote against. It is also in the interests of society as a whole, because in a normal democratic society, a person to be judged within the Legal Commission could not, in my opinion, work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U71	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U72	Colleagues! First of all, I would like one of the coalitions to confirm or deny the information that is intensively expressed in public space that this... Election to the Commission and later becoming the head of the Commission is a political transaction regarding approval of Jānis Vitenbergs as Minister of Economics. That's the first. Second. A little addition to Mr Gobzem. At the moment, there is a great deal of indignation on the part of the JCPOA and a great deal of concern that Mr Nemir has been deprived of the assumption that the country is at some safety risk and that there are some reeders who are linging at some point in the ministries. At the same time, I understand that Juris Jušas does not need permission from the Head of the Legal Commission, but we are still heading him as a member of the Legal Commission. And let me guess – later on the manager... a person who not only cannot have a tolerance to the state secret but who is currently being tried for the disclosure of the state secret. Before I could support Jušas candidacy, I want to hear that this is not at least a deal for... in exchange for Mr Wittenberg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U73	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Juris Jušas, Member of the Saeima, to the Legal Commission! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole. The microphone for Richard Cole!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U74	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft decision on the election of Juris Jušas, Member of the Saeima, to the Legal Commission: 71, against -13, abstaining - not available.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U75	Thank you. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Normunds Gunna to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Normunds Gunna to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Colleagues! Please, please! Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U76	The result of the vote on the draft decision on the election of the Parliamentary Member Normunds Gunna to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption: 86 no, no, and no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U77	Thank you. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Renis Znotiņš from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Reinis Znotiņš from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U78	The result of the vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission of the Saeima Member Reinis Znotiņš: 85, no votes against and abstentions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U79	Thank you. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Jānis Cielen from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science”. Are Members willing to debate? I don't want to. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Jānis Cielen from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U80	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science of the Seimas Member Jānis Cielens: 87, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U81	Thank you. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Reinis Znotiņš to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Reinis Znotiņš to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U82	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Reinis Znotiņš to the Education, Culture and Science Commission: 86
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U83	Thank you. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Mr. John Cielen of the Saeima Member to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Janis Cielen of the Saeima Member to the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax)! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U84	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr. Janis Cielen, Member of the Saeima, to the Committee on Budget and Financial Affairs (taxes): 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U85	Thank you. Decision adopted. Colleagues! The agenda has been examined. Thank you for the operational, smooth work of both the coalition and the opposition, and of all the Members who took part in the sitting. Thank you to all the staff who provide this sitting. And there are statements. So five minutes after the meeting of the Saeima, a meeting of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications (at a distance) is held. 15 minutes after the meeting of the Saeima, a meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption shall be held (at a distance) and a meeting of the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs (at a distance). I ask Members to be prepared to attend the meetings of these commissions. Thank you. To-do... Another word to Member Juris Rancan for a statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U86	Yes, I wanted to announce that the meeting of the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission was 15 minutes after the end of this meeting. See you, colleagues, remotely, through our computers.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2058-U87	Thank you. Well, you see, the chairman of the commission also reaffirms this. Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
