ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We will continue the meeting of the Saeima on 23 November this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. We remained on proposal 22. Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U2	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We really remained on this proposal, and it is a proposal that proposes maintaining the arrangements and the amount of social contributions that beneficiaries receive, not to increase their tax burden at the moment, when, also for all the other related areas, the limitations of the community and, in general, the economic situation have already made it worse for them to earn their own income. And I would also like to draw attention to the letters that we have received from the sector at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, for example, the Association of Non-State Organisations for Contemporary Culture points out that, not only when it comes to the changes made to the Law on State Social Insurance, but also when it comes to narrowing the micro-enterprises' tax regime, increasing the tax rate, abolishing patent fees, and increasing the personal income tax, this whole package of measures will have a significant negative impact on the cultural and creative sector, because these are people who are also using these regimes to a large extent. In this law too, when colleagues introduce the obligation for employers to pay minimum social contributions, non-governmental organisations are one of the areas which will also be affected and which will have a negative impact. In the cultural sector, indeed, as employers, there are also non-governmental organisations, which are largely financed not by regular income, regular profits - NGOs are not the task at all - but by one-off, partly-paid, irregular projects and events, where the country is also a contracting entity, many times, and where it really employs representatives of creative persons for part-time or part-time. They will also be required to cover these social contributions and the difference between the minimum wage and actual income if they are lower, which means that, like the economic operators, there will be enormous uncertainty and difficulties in cash flow. I am not talking at all about those projects that have now been launched, which have been planned for several years and for which there is no budget funding for higher tax rates. This is one of the reasons why we are also calling for the tax burden not to be increased for authors at the moment, a sufficiently long transitional period and a time of preparation. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U3	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! I also call for this approach that authors should pay minimum social contributions, not to apply at present. I think we've all seen these authorial and protesting campaigns in a variety of ways lately... Of course, it is very interesting that it was with the authors that the Minister of Culture was also taking part and going to talk to these authors... It's all for authors and artists... It's all kind of nice, but at the end of the day the proposals are quite... The only proposals prepared for artists are the possibility for them to go to the Ministry of Culture and pray for support. Colleagues, I find such an approach quite absurd, and I would ask you to keep... None of these artists, cultural workers, objected to the continuation of the existing regime. There were talks about it... of some support mechanisms already under the existing regime, however, at the time when the regime was yet to be changed, such emotions appeared very brightly, and indeed everyone could see the difficult situation in which the artists are actually present. At the moment, they just don't have a job as such. We see all the cultural institutions, the organizers of events... everyone is out of the way right now and rarely finds a way through e-services, doing something for himself. But it is not available to all. And to those for whom it is not available, these amendments will make life only... It will make it even more difficult to live this difficult life, colleagues. Thank you, and I invite you to support 22. - a proposal made by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U5	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U6	Yes, colleagues! By joining the words of Mr Valaiņš, it is true that at the moment representatives of creative professions, especially those involved in the management of various events, must study the new regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers at the moment and think how they can remotely connect to what events and pass them on so as to ensure that at least... no more than two households watch these events, as we read from the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. All this is very sad in this situation, when creative professionals... they are denied income. These additional new provisions, in my opinion, are really a little bit of the Minister of Culture, I think, a question that has not been addressed, because the Minister of Culture... In this case, he should be much stronger. We remember 12. In the Saeima there was an attempt to offer a tax on event tickets. The creative professions agreed with the Ministry of Culture that such an initiative should be rejected and, in fact, that destruction... possible... could have prevented it. Now we really see only such formal meetings and nothing more. What else I wanted to add to this proposal. Yesterday, Mr. Butane of the New Conservative Party said, well, it was about income... it was about the distribution of taxes on income tax and the VSAOI that, in fact, every taxpayer knows best how he... how he would like to spend this money. In this case, perhaps what Mr Bhutan said is right, because if we are talking about creative people, Mr Bhutan should come here and defend the view that the creative professions have the right to decide for themselves how they spend their money, what kind of tax and how they plan to do that. At the moment, these amendments speak against the freedom to which they are customised. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported, so to abolish this, in my view, hasty and totally unthinkable order. And we will listen very much to what Mr. Janson will tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U7	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U8	Yes, Mr Janson, as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, will only remind us of what he said in the previous debate, that EUR 1.7 million has been allocated to creative persons, directly to creative persons - both writers and other creative and journalistic... creative - in connection with the change in the tax system on royalties. On 26 November, in response to the question of support from the organisers of the events, the Ministry of Culture asked the management group for support for entrepreneurship and employees to address in greater depth the problems of specific cultural enterprises in relation to the limitations of the community, and received conceptual support for two key positions for stabilising the activities of cultural organisations, i.e. compensation of 80 per cent of tickets for cancelled measures in the event of an emergency and support for maintenance of premises, similar to hotels, places of events and warehouses in excess of 500 square metres. The following questions will be discussed in the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. Also about event organisers... It is logical to think about how to support them. And I would also like to say that during the crisis, there will be EUR 600 000 in support of non-governmental organisations. This was agreed yesterday by a working group chaired by the Minister of Finance to support entrepreneurship and the workforce. The proposal was drafted by the Ministry of Culture, but the final decision will be taken by the Cabinet. These aid measures are being considered.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U9	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U10	Yes, good morning! Thank you. I would also like to say, in response to a comment made by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, that the number of beneficiaries affected by tax changes is 39 006. And according to the Ministry of Finance, 25 290 taxpayers will no longer earn income from this regime. I have already understood that 1.7 million - this is the one-off compensatory mechanism that the Ministry of Culture intends to grant to beneficiaries of royalties from the budget. But what are the criteria, and who will receive their support directly from the royalties scheme? Criteria are likely to be set, and perhaps someone will. But will this funding be sufficient and support all those working in this field? I doubt it very much. Furthermore, it opens up a very wide range of possibilities to manipulate selection criteria, to choose very much who to provide support for which no support is provided, and it is planned to be short-term, but the changes in the tax regime that we are now supporting and implementing are long-lasting and will in practice have an impact over a long period of time. And then the question remains whether, by making such a decision, by eliminating and reorganising this regime, the state and government, including the Minister of Culture, have thought about what is expected of these 25 290 people. What will they gain from it? Where will they find a job, and how will their life and work be transformed? Will they be forced to travel abroad, and will the country again lose 25,000 people? Please support this proposal and provide a smarter and more lasting tax policy for the special scheme recipients of royalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U11	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U12	Colleagues, listening to Mr Janson's explanation, ask me a question. Mr Janson, colleagues from the coalition, why once again is something to be broken at the beginning and then think about how to close it? What you have offered, what you have told us, those support mechanisms are very similar to the rude end-of-life benefit system that was in the spring, and will now only be considered on a number of different criteria. You named some of them. But for the support of NGOs - 600 thousand. Wait, please! NGOs are only supported by organisations that perform public and municipal functions... help you to do this. So it won't be for everyone, and it's a lot, a lot too little. There will be nothing to do with these aids. You will destroy again - again! - the sphere. I call for support, however. Please fight for your own. These are your people. You took responsibility for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U13	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U14	Some things. According to Mr. Jansons, these 1.7 million... These forms of support for event organisers - all that would be... and must be done regardless of whether or not there are these amendments to the law. At the moment, there is a situation where there is a bad Saeima and a good Cabinet that thinks... think of artists. But the bad Saeima is the one who accepts these amendments to the law. And I think if there weren't these changes to the law, then in every... These support mechanisms should also be adopted in any event. It does not change this crisis... the state of the crisis. Therefore, colleagues, the question is only: when will other support mechanisms for small business finally appear? Because the previous laws have very upset many small Latvian entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U15	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U16	Good morning, Madam President and colleagues. On the one hand, it has to be said that the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture has indeed earned his salary and the debate shows that the Ministry of Culture is looking after at least the issues and people in its competence. At the same time, however, it is clear that, at the moment, the Parliamentary Secretary talked about the coup's solutions, about the emergency solution, about the possibility... support in a crisis situation, but we are now deciding and talking about amendments, if you can say so, to day-to-day regulation or law, which will not work only in a society situation, but which will have the corresponding duration and consequences of taking a decision in the long term. Thus, in fact, cultural people, when building a symbolic brick wall near the Saeima, called for a delay of changes for at least one year. And why? First of all, in order to create a system that really, on the one hand, creates in the long term an old-age fund for people who, for reasons of their activity or for any other reason, are working under the royalties regime, on the other hand, do not break the system as it is now, because then everyone understands what rules they are working for. And then... The support measures mentioned by Mr Janson would be understandable why it is precisely such measures to support these people in a crisis situation. I want to say... Another thing is that, while the Ministry of Culture is currently talking about support in matters of its competence, it is clear to people that only artists, concert organizers and many people working in this field are not receiving royalties. Interpreters also receive royalties, teachers, such as those who form teaching aids. Who will support them? The parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, of course, should also be speaking at this point, and it should be said what support or measures this ministry will provide in the case of the community, of course, in cooperation with the government as a whole. I call on the Prime Minister to take a look at the scope of royalties recipients more widely and not to write it down only under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. In other sectors too, people are likely to use this type of activity and this type of remuneration. Once again, it is clear that support must be different, and also different people. Look at what is happening to the authors of teaching material, which is happening to the interpreters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U17	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U18	Yeah, colleagues. Mr Janson will speak after me, maybe then there will be an opportunity to comment on and respond to some of thesis. But in general, its approach reminds me of such a method of dictatorial power that you take away all (now all will be increased taxes) and then give back through the bee to those who are in your mind or who are especially close to you. It is clear that with the funding of the Culture Capital Fund - EUR 1.7 million - you will not be able to cover the full range of users of current agreements on royalties. Well, for example, the same interpreters have already been mentioned, which did not speak out in the profession that you are being supported. Then I would also like to ask... asked Mr Janson if he has drawn attention to the fact that the biggest increase will be in 2023? Is there sufficient funding then?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U19	Name to Member Ritvar Janson for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U20	Yes, honourable Members. Thank you for your assessment of the work. Ritvars Jansons, as Parliamentary Secretary, does not get a salary, but when it comes to all these support measures - 1.7 million indeed... It has been put into the budget not only as the support of the community, but as a whole the support of the creators, and logically, it will be meant for the years to come, because we see that the crisis... it will continue. This amount of funds needed to support the community is not only available for the following year. It must also be incorporated into the years to come. It should be recalled that the Ministry of Culture fought for the retention of this 25 per cent and 50 per cent level of eligible expenditure. So that these supplements will also be creative...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U21	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U22	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, society! I would like to begin this morning by saying that we may not agree with the content and reasoning of the representatives of the Ministry of Culture, but one thing is the fact. The Minister for Culture and representatives of the Ministry of Culture, in this case also the representative of the National Association, Ritvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary, is on the trip and explains... Unlike the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Minister of Education and Science, who should also talk about this issue, as both Evija Papule and Dana Reizniece–Ozola rightly pointed out. Therefore, we must also, as we say, evaluate this work objectively and fairly, in substance. I think that the solution to this problem, which is marked, is as clear as any other issue. It is clear that the coalition of power will vote against artists, against the recipients of royalties, and it is clear that this group of society will also be followed by tax increases. It won't be hard to put the bricks at the Saeima. The artists are, in fact, the most loved part of society... in which the public listens. And artists are those who can make big changes if they want to. However, I call on artists to think about and go to much more serious actions than just bricks to build up at the parliament, inviting the public to get there and start defending themselves. Otherwise, the whole of this budget on any issue - which I have spoken about throughout the week - is such a known farce. Members of the opposition point to the problem at all times, the position does not debate at all, the position passes through as a roll... Well, it does not happen in a democratic and legal state. There is, however, an attempt at discussions to find the best ways to help people in their country, because there is no question here about some kind of protection of their personal interests. It is about protecting the interests of the people of the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U23	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U24	Good morning, dear colleagues! It's good to be with you. Once again, I see that the times of the debate have been shortened. Well, I guess it's not such a big miracle. I call on you, my fellow Members, to look rather conceptually at the consequences of this policy, that the Ministry of Finance proposes equalising tax regimes for absolutely everyone. Of course, at the moment it is about the beneficiaries of royalties. So absolutely everyone actually has the same tax treatment, even if you are a worker. Then to me, Mr Janson, the call for such an experiment of thought, and to imagine that, let us assume, at some point, this pandemic crisis is ending in a few months' time, or in a few months' time, and you are calling for a meeting with the students who finish, let us accept class 12 or just start. They are thinking about choosing their future profession and asking you questions about whether they are worth joining the Art Academy of Latvia or the Latvian Academy of Culture. You probably try to tell them how good it is to be... how it could be good to become a creative person. And then imagine, Mr. Janson, you have one, well, maybe a very far-sighted student asking this question, say, let's say, Mr. Janson, I choose one of those paths to life that will lead me... There is a wide range of professions where I will become a worker. Then this profession offers me a guaranteed salary - every month I will receive a guaranteed salary. I will not have to worry about what will happen there with that company, nor about any plans, I have the security of the maximum just to discharge my direct job duties, especially not to think about anything else, to receive a guaranteed salary. And then he says that you offer me to become a creative person, but no creative person has managed to create something like that... so to say, continuous flow. Creative people today may not succeed tomorrow. Thus, the flow of income from how he sells the result of his creativity is very irregular. As a result, my income will also be very irregular and there will be days and months when perhaps there will be no... Can I unite my speaking time?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U25	There's a combination of times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U26	Thank you. And then he says: So you offer me a choice of a profession that is still associated with much higher risks and irregular income than usual... with the worker. And for all of this, you know, there is the same tax burden as the worker - absolutely the same. ( Aw, I will remind you, one of the greatest in the world, by the way.) So, to be rude, well, to be very rude, I'm going to have to pay for every cent I earn, probably about about 40 cents, even close to 50, perhaps. Then he asks you: but what motivation can I have as a creator, Mr. Janson? I'd rather go and become an employee. And so we had, so to speak, a healthy workers' economy, the country of workers. Is that, Mr. Janson... Is that so? As Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, do you consider this to be your strategic objective - to achieve something like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U27	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U28	Madam President, Mr Janson, thank you also for the debate, and do not take evil for the salary! It is likely that soon we will pay our wages to all if we do not have the ability to deal with things that are of interest to us. But at the same time, in your story, it was strange, in my opinion, to hear that you are telling us about support for the renters of the premises, so those who own the area, and that they will receive some compensation, but what would be important to hear at the moment - what support will be given to the people themselves? How will you support people in this crisis situation? As the time limit is short, it is likely that answers to this question could be heard in the forthcoming debate. This would also improve the context of the debate. But again, don't take evil, and I really appreciate the conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U29	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U30	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that this proposal was specifically due to the exclusion of the obligation on the paying agent to provide the State Revenue Service with a monthly report on pension insurance. But on behalf of the Commission, I would also like to comment on the impact of this paragraph and why it is. Draft law drawn up in principle... This and also the obligation to report and pay the royalties to the payer, passed on to the law “On Personal Income Tax”, so as not to make it more difficult for the author and the creative person, as they say, administrative... In principle, the draft laws currently drawn up provide for three different options for paying taxes to beneficiaries of royalties. They differ from one section to another, but in two sections they are in principle almost, could be said to be in the current order. Since, in the original offer of the Ministry of Finance, I would remind you, in general, the different tax payments of the beneficiaries of the royalties were not foreseen and were actually offered to be eliminated, the initiatives of the Ministry of Culture have now created a separate method of payment of the taxes of the beneficiaries of the royalties. It's a turnover tax, from which you could say 25 percent... but in natural terms, 20 per cent is the national social security contribution, which is, however, less than the usual employee contribution rate, and only five per cent is the personal income tax rate, which is actually calculated from expenditure. And there is also a solution that does not make it administratively difficult for creative persons. It is very simple: the payer pays this tax, and the author does not even have to make any statements in a quarter or a month, but only at the end of the year is cumulatively calculated, as he says, how it has all been successful and how much the contributions have been made. Then the other two regimes relating to self-employed workers... Even now and now, and so far, all the authors who earned it could say more than a minimum wage per month... on average a year, well, it's 12 minimum wages... had an obligation to register as self-employed persons already now. If these spending rules were initially intended to be virtually nothing and significantly reduced, then now is the return that the automatic spending rule, which is not to pay tax, for most of the creative activities (as music... visual art, sculpture and many others) has been preserved at 50 percent. It is 25 per cent for the writing industries, just as it has been up to now. That means there are no significant differences. And it is obvious to be able to understand, for example: if this author earned 1000 euros a month, then he will have to pay tax from 500 euros. So social contributions will be 10 percent, that is, EUR 50, if he has not earned even more. And personal income tax - in normal order. At the end of them, 450 euros... This means that he will pay around 140 euros per month from the tax of EUR 1000. Of course, if he earns more than EUR 1000, then he has a minimum social contribution of about EUR 160, and then it will be less subject to personal income tax once again. Of course, if it paid turnover tax, it would be 250 euros out of 1000 per month if there was no... because in this case this rate of expenditure is not applied. So the choices are great and diverse, and everyone can choose the right ones. If there is an author who has very high authorship costs... entailing high costs of more than 50 per cent, he may then account for them and pay the tax only on the part of the actual part remaining. So in fact, he has another fourth way to choose and how these taxes could be paid. I would also like to remind you... I heard in discussions that from 2023 it was planned to significantly increase taxes on self-employed persons and authors. I would like to remind you that this intention is excluded from this draft law that the self-employed will have to pay tax - social contributions - from all income. It is no longer provided for in this draft law. Because this specific proposal on the obligation of the paying authority to report royalties has been passed on to personal income tax and... The Law on Personal Income Tax. I call for this particular proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 53, refraining - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U32	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. Notwithstanding Article 23.2.1, which requires a self-employed person earning income from agricultural activities to report by 14 April of the current year on contributions made in the previous year... compulsory contributions and income. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U33	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U34	Yes, colleagues, we have already discussed this idea in part yesterday. This applies to farmers who are seasonal in nature, and the proposal is to maintain the arrangements for the reporting and contributions of existing farmers' national social security contributions without requiring them to make this statement and contribution on a quarterly basis, but, as until now, once a year, in particular, as I said, taking into account the nature of these seasonalities and the possible impact of these amendments on the working capital of farmers. Now, colleagues... you will also see in the budget debate that farmers, after many years, are not included in the budget for the first time in order to cover the interest on credit. This means, for example, that for the purchase of agricultural land by small, medium-sized farmers, who have so far been active in the programme and who have also applied to the bank for funding, could count on state aid. Such options are practically not foreseen in the draft budget for the following year. With your vote yesterday, we have also voted to limit farmers' opportunities to work in a micro enterprise alongside economic activity in this area and to earn more. We are, with the supposedly small promises, undermining the competitiveness of this sector and the opportunities for these people who work in this regime to earn. And I think it's not for nothing that's been particularly up-to-date, too... Fast credit companies have also been active, offering a variety of attractive offers and products in the form of convenient, fast, not too cheap loans to farmers. Unfortunately, that is what we urge these farmers at this extremely difficult time, too... in general for economic operators. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U35	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U36	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This norm is embedded in order to align with all other regimes in which a person can work. Thus, if the selfemployed worker is also working under another regime, the minimum social contributions will be calculated for the full amount of the scheme in which he works. There will therefore be no information that he is still working somewhere and that his contributions have also been made for a quarter. Therefore, if he is working under the general tax regime, he/she will not be burdened by the employer and the self-employed. There is also a possibility to cease its economic activity temporarily if no active activity occurs at that time. And for that time, there is no need to make contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U37	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U38	This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs! Please, let's vote! For -56, for -15, for -12. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U40	24. - also the proposal of welfare minister Petraviča. Provision is made for supplementing the draft law with an article determining the cost of the services administered by the State to persons travelling abroad for their permanent residence. The Commission shall be supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U41	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U42	Yes, my fellow Members, in support of this proposal, I would simply like to draw attention to the discussion that took place a few days ago... Yes, or maybe there will be more in the context of the Law on Personal Income Tax. But in the Commission, we discussed the fact that also those persons who, at the time of receiving an old-age pension, reached... i.e., living outside Latvia, there must be the right to receive an old-age pension, which has been accumulated in the form of state social insurance contributions and insurance against this type of insurance. Here is a good example. It happens - if a person has reached this age and received a pension while living in Latvia and then leaves Latvia, then we as a country are ready even to make payments in the account of a foreign bank or credit institution. And I support this proposal. Representatives of the Ministry of Welfare at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission explained that this is one of the reasons... Our currently cautious banks and credit institutions, which, if a person lives outside the country, are not willing to keep accounts for these persons. But it would be equally logical to introduce the principle and strengthen the principle that regardless of where a person lives – abroad or Latvia, she has the right to receive an old-age pension and then to choose the account in which to deposit it. In support of this proposal, I once again wanted to raise this second issue, in my view, an important issue which I hope the Ministry of Welfare will resolve at some point.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U43	I closed the debate. So Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U44	Next - 25. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. The proposal is very broad, with a wide range of points designed to complement the transitional provisions. In particular, one of the points shall provide for the option of voluntary membership of pension insurance by 2023 for the recipients of the retirement allowance or for the recipients of the continuation of the parental benefit. Then also for the micro-enterprises tax payers... to postpone the entry into force of the new micro-enterprises tax for these specific entrepreneurs and to enable them to continue to pay in the current order by 1 January 2021. Then also for maintaining the social insurance scheme of the beneficiaries of the royalties in the same way until 1 July 2022. For the entry into force of the minimum contribution object and its contributions only from 1 July 2022, as well as self-employed persons’ pension insurance... could say... In 2022, from 1 July to 31 December at least 10 per cent... In principle, many different points of the transitional provisions which distance the intended entry into force or modify it. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U45	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U46	Yeah, colleagues. The proposal is textually long, but actually quite simple and also related to the next - 26. - our proposal. And the idea is to postpone the whole year and ask the Cabinet of Ministers until next year... by 1 January 2022, to come up with a proportionate, gradual plan for introducing minimum national social security contributions, also giving clarity as to what will happen in the coming years, because, in the past too, we stressed how wrong it is that the solution is now being proposed for half a year (as it is now more or less clear what will happen from 1 July to December next year), while giving the government the task to come up with a proposal for 2022 and subsequent years before 1 July, which suggests that after half a year, even if it seems now that all the bad rules for 2023 have been removed, we will actually see the same rules again after half a year. If someone may be currently from self-employed workers or authors or patent-payers or other social-contributory payers somewhat as a result of ease of breathing, the feeling of ease is likely not to last more than six months. Indeed, it is a proposal to postpone everything at the moment, especially in view of the fact that there is a communion crisis and a great degree of uncertainty, and to give time to both the Cabinet of Ministers to agree with each other, as well as to engage in discussions with non-governmental organisations, business organisations, social partners and society in such a way that it is a thoughtful, gradual, clear plan for many years. Well, perhaps in the next year, the Ministry of Finance could, however, receive and develop a strategy for the development of tax policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U47	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U48	Good morning, colleagues, again! I also think that this proposal is very important; it should be supported for some reasons. First of all, so that the new model to support entrepreneurship, on which I think all coalition parties will compete and begin to speak immediately after the adoption of this budget... It would be more logical if the new model as such, as an alternative offer, were ready today - before we vote. But we have all understood in this debate that such a new model is not, by its very nature, and yes, thank you Mr Janson, and indeed the National Union has in some way achieved some kind of support mechanisms, but I would stress once again that these support mechanisms, which have been created, are short-term, and they are... should have been created without these or other amendments. Minister for Welfare yesterday in the debate... I don't know how the Member or the Minister debated... but made it clear that - who knows what the situation will be in January. Well, now we also agree with this idea, and I would like to say even more: who knows what the situation will be like in March, April, May... Let's... In order to prepare for this, it would be important to introduce such a longer transitional period. The half-year that we are proposing in this proposal would, in my opinion, be proportionate. Otherwise... I, let us accept, yesterday evening after the amendment of the Microbusiness Tax Act, have already received calls from businessmen who ask me the question: who will now pay me EUR 200 that I will not receive from 1 January? A very specific question. Perhaps I formulated this very gently, it was formulated more harshly from this businessman, and I understand what that means for him. In these difficult circumstances, the same questions will, I think, be asked by every Member as from 1 January. And what will you be able to answer? I think a half-year would be a very normal time to put these rules into effect, so that Members of the Saeima themselves could figure out what to answer if they were asked where they... what they should do in this situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U49	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U50	Yeah, thank you. The question is why the government and the members of the Saeima listen to the arguments of the Latvian Gaming Business Association that increasing the tax burden is confiscative and do not support the proposal of the New Conservative Party to increase the tax burden on companies operating in the gambling sector. And why do governments and politicians not listen to and support those proposals that propose to postpone tax reform, which propose to provide for a thorough analysis of those working in the relevant segment and which also allow better forecasting of developments in the context of the economic downturn and the development of the Covid-19 crisis. I therefore believe that the proposal is justified and logical and also corresponds to the time at which we take decisions, because why then the additional tax burden imposed on workers in one sector is considered to be confiscation, but for patent payers, micro-enterprises and economic operators receiving royalties, it increases the tax burden, in any case increases it, and restrictive measures are introduced, but this is not heard and is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U51	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U52	I would like to reflect on the questions that have just been asked by Lubova, where my colleague is asking why there is no increase in taxes on gambling, but is increasing in fact for people who, from 1 January, even if they do not receive income, will have to pay taxes that are completely absurd at all. That is the answer, Mrs. Schvekov. This is because Jānis Zuzans has been the father of Edgars Jaunupas and Development/About! ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U53	So, on behalf of the commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U54	For the Commission... This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Valaiņa, Dūkes, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskas and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 53, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U56	26. - Proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. It is envisaged that the transitional provisions contained in Article 18 of the draft law should be excluded, so that the entry into force of these changes can be withdrawn. This proposal includes the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to create a new offer by 1 January 2022. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U57	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U58	In particular, Mrs Indricksones reported. We are repealing with this proposal all the tax changes that are currently planned and are tasking the government to come with a clear, balanced proposal by the end of next year. In addition, colleagues would be an opportunity, also in the preparation of the 2022 and medium-term budgets, to provide for adequate funding, for example for national cultural institutions, so that the planned tax changes can be covered at their own expense, not at the expense of the service providers, self-employed, authors, individuals, those who currently have a sharp drop in their standard of living due to their various limitations. And with additional payments and more complex administration you will actually lower their income levels. Mr Janson was very proud of 1.7 million in the Culture Capital Fund programme, which is indeed a short-term measure at the moment, which is perhaps such an eye-catching and... a patch in the short term to enable decisions to be made - one that will have an impact not only next year, but all the years to come on the self-employed, on patent payers, micro-enterprises and authors. I'm much bigger... It would be a great pleasure if you really had also won an increase in funding for national cultural institutions in the medium term budget, rather than fighting so much for seven million concert hall design next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U59	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U60	Please combine speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U61	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U62	Dear colleagues, This government proposal to introduce minimum social security contributions raised very, very many questions. In fact, what the government is doing is assuming that all those who receive less than the minimum wage are tax-unpayers, all of whom are abusing taxation. Of course, this is done without any evidence in general or against an individual who receives less than the minimum wage. So so, colleagues, actually, if a person really gets less than the minimum wage, that is, working less than full time and getting less than the minimum wage... the government is proposing to him a very regressive tax. And actually what happens is... Well, of course, these people will get less on hand. As it is compatible with moving towards the Nordic countries or with any fairness at all, I have, either, really very difficult to say. But in essence, what the government offers is what is called a head tax. In fact, the government says that if a person works for at least one hour, then he must pay at least this particular amount, which is the minimum social... minimum social tax. Colleagues, this so-called 'head tax' is not a new thing in history. You can look at the Internet, you can look at Wikipedia, you can find it under the name head tax or poll tax - it is a ‘head tax’ or ‘election tax’. And you will read about the following that by nature such head taxes were very popular sources of revenue for many governments from very ancient times and until the 19th century that, for example, even in Bible times... The Bible says that the Jewish law... There was a head tax - half of the shekel that was to be paid by every person who was over 20 years old. You will also read that such taxes are, by their very nature, regarded as very regressive taxes, usually very unpopular and are believed to be the reasons for many revolutions. The last kind of head tax... In 2018, it was tried to introduce $500 per employee in Seattle. And this... Well, this head tax kept exactly one month. So what's going on... what the government offers, has been tested in history and has not passed the test, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U63	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U64	Yes, my fellow Members, too, call for this to be postponed, let us call what is, in substance, the tax reform that is being proposed, without bringing it absolutely into line with any social partner. Maybe there's someone with whom it's agreed, but at least it's from the attached documents that it's... foreign investors. Maybe there's someone else, but yet my... attached documents that I can read here... which is added... I do not really see any of these organisations that support these proposed amendments. One thing is clear: the amendments have been drafted in a very great hurry and, I could say, in the same secret, because very little has said about this type of amendment in the summer, when there was a pre-election time. In practice, if someone commented on something, he commented in the opposite direction. And now, in parallel, while we are watching, there are political forces who criticise all this, and that is quite strange. This strange approach is to criticise, but then to support itself. It cannot really be called a position. That's how you bend, I think it's more. This proposal would be postponed for a few years... really prepare and prepare for that economic leap up... the economic leap up. Mr Asheraden, I hope that we all live in the sense that the economic leap must be up. By supporting such a tax package, more than 10 thousand Latvians will certainly make this economic leap down. It is absolutely clear that for them this economic leap will be down and for several tens of thousands will be a big question: where they jump - up or down. And no other mechanism is offered. Currently ready... Support mechanisms for cultural workers are, of course, short-term. Money will end, what will it do next? Look at this with regard to public debt. I want to see how sustainable we will be on such support mechanisms. These proposed amendments are intended to allow entrepreneurs to help the country and fight for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U65	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U66	Good morning, colleagues! I will certainly call on you to support this proposal and to postpone this unthinkable, hasty and absolutely absurd tax reform for the small business regulation. In general, the approach that people in this small business sector do not pay taxes is absolutely wrong. Any person in this country who has a wallet with money, pays taxes - pays in stores in the form of VAT, pays for heating when heating his house in winter, pays for any of his property in the form of real estate tax and other charges. If we are talking about this regulation, then here is a fee for the right to work, for our natural abilities or after we complete the university, for the acquired knowledge and skills. And who regulates the fundamental rights of these people to use their natural abilities, knowledge and skills must be really well thought out. Thinking about and equal so that we do not get as we learned yesterday from the State Audit Office report about, for example, the cost of a cut-off benefit during the period of the first emergency, when it was found (and this was established by the State Audit Office) that 101 million of the cut-off benefits were paid out in real terms 54 million. Was one quarter of the benefits for children used at all, Mrs. Petraviča! One quarter! What does this indicate? First. You don't know how to plan. Second. That you've come up with a regulation that people can't use for the cost of benefits. They're afraid of applying! Well, please be examples of good governance! At least try to be. If you do not understand, call the opposition representatives to advise you a little bit as you should. Please support this proposal. We are leaving all this absurd regulation that leads the people to the indignation that will appear in the protests next year. That's what the Internet is about. Well, read what is happening now in social networks as a response to your decisions. I hope that today the position will not remain silent and will finally recognise its mistakes. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U67	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U68	Colleagues, although we are mainly debating small tax regimes in the context of the Law on State Social Insurance, will actually have quite a great impact on part-time employees working in the general regime, because I would remind you again that it is the general regime of 180,000 now... After the increase in the minimum wage, the figure to which the obligation to pay up to the minimum social contributions will apply is 180,000. And these are the companies of the general tax regime, which are now... from those who pay their employees less than the minimum wage... 24 percent last year, when it was a good year... there were tax debts. And I cannot imagine that, at this time of crisis, you will really bring about such a big, rapid transformation of the economy that, by increasing taxes, all these entrepreneurs will be able to pay off their old debts and even more new social contributions. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U69	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U70	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Ozola, we read yesterday that Mr Asheraden is going to jump somewhere, so Mr Asheraden will have a leap. But if we are talking about this proposal, of course, it is to be supported, and I would also like to add that stability is, in my opinion, the most valuable value the government can give to citizens in the area of taxation in general. What do we read from the Prime Minister last year's views on the tax system? At the beginning of last year, the Prime Minister, when speaking about healthcare funding - but we can also apply this to any issue, because the Prime Minister comments on the tax system - indicated that he does not support rapid movements in the tax area, but supports work with identification of problems and finding solutions at different levels. Kariņš is convinced that it is also possible to make decisions that do not change any tax but improve the system as a whole. And the Prime Minister said: “I don’t want to have a harsh society – one day so, the other day so. This is why the debate is now under way." It said Karin, who thinks it would be better to set seven times but cut once. You're turning seven times now, never set! You fellow Members, I think you are even more unpredictable than... How unpredictable is this... the situation of this community, which every day gives a variety of public surprises. And imagine that those taxpayers you are actually addressing at the moment - they have to live with two disasters at the moment: therefore, with an emergency situation in a country that does not allow them to work and with these surprises from the government. Believe me, many more, very many, probably most of the people, have not even learned at all about the surprise you are preparing for them on January 1. And when these rules come into force, then it will really be... January will be the most difficult situation. Mr. Karins, I hope Mr. Karins... After the adoption of this budget, we have a report from Mr Kariņš to be heard, and I would very much like to hear how Mr Kariņš will straighten up and tell the public that one year ago he felt that he should not cut taxes to the right, to the left. Especially in this situation - what will he say now? What will Mr. Kariņš tell us now, and does Mr. Kariņš even understand what he does to the Latvian people? Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U71	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U72	I am reading the proposal, and the proposal is black on white in writing - the Cabinet of Ministers will submit to the Saeima before 1 January 2022 a draft law on the gradual, proportionate introduction of minimum national social security contributions. Well, logical, simple, understandable proposal. To be supported. The coalition of power will not support this. People will learn about this in January, realizing that they have raised taxes and that they will also have to pay social security contributions even if they do not receive any income. And it will hit the most effectively so-called self-employed and those working in private business, those who have suffered the most from this crisis. All this is the responsibility of dear people, dear society, Krišjānis Kariņš, our Prime Minister. And the coalition of power will be responsible - New Unity, Development/For! , National Union, New Conservative Party and ‘KPV LV’. And it will also be the responsibility of society as a whole, in principle, because during this budget review, when taxes are raised during the crisis, in fact, for very many groups of society, rather than providing support as in other countries, there are no massive protests at the Saeima this week, and the public is not dissatisfied. This leads me to the conclusion that society, obviously also the less prosperous part of society and the most vulnerable part of society, wants it to be taxed at present. And I can only repeat and repeat: the time has come for us to stop pity, to stop pitying: what kind of poor people we are in society and how we don't go and how we don't care about them. That is why, in order for us to start taking care of society, we have to stand on our own feet. You have to start defending yourself. There is simply no objective solution. With these dozens, 20-30, votes in the parliament are not enough. According to the Constitution... The parliamentary roll of order to vote in favour of the proposal requires 51 votes, a majority. Most are now those who raise your taxes. And, society, you just let that happen. So you are co-responsible to what Krišjānis Kariņš and the coalition of all power do. And that is absolutely true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U73	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U74	In my opinion, a vote on the proposal can also be taken by 26 votes. This can happen under certain circumstances. But for this... Once again, I would like to say that this is, in my opinion, the moment at which the adoption of these amendments should be postponed. Importantly, however, before the elections, there were also political forces, I remember, which criticised the previous tax reform very much. Let us then see that we can already compare the previous tax reform and this tax reform: tens of thousands of people will be increased by the monthly tax burden, but not simply increased, but substantially increased, without any support mechanisms being put in return.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U75	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U76	Well, if the coalition of power does not come to a debate, then I have to debate with Mr Valaiņš and say: Mr Valaiņš, you also have to stop doing populism. As can be seen, 97 Members have registered for this sitting of the Saeima and 26 votes in this sitting of the Saeima cannot vote in favour of the proposal. The majority of the Saeima is therefore needed in this particular case. And the majority of the Saeima is the government of Krišjānis Kariņš, who will be responsible together with all the society that allows it without being very active. All those who are unemployed must start protesting very actively, not wait for a miracle. There will not be a miracle, this government and this power will only raise taxes for you while you sit and wait for a miracle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U77	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U78	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U79	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U80	27. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. Specify the date in paragraph 74 of the transitional provisions from 1 July to 30 June. In the Commission, the proposal is supported and included in proposal 28.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U82	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The dates of transition shall also be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U84	29. - a proposal from the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation. The proposal and... Proposal for a slightly different wording of point 75 of the transitional provisions contained in Article 18 of the draft law. I can't really understand where the difference is. But the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U85	Neither is there a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U86	30. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. Pre-sponsored articles of the law... in point 75 of the transitional provisions... and determine their entry into force.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U88	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 18 of the draft law provides for... replace the words ‘expired until 30 July 2021’ by the words ‘expired on 1 July 2021’. Technical proposal: Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U90	32. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Expressed in a different version of paragraph 80 of the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U92	33. - also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The dates of the transitional provisions shall also be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U94	34. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is envisaged to state in the wording of point 84 of the transitional provisions that ‘the amendment of Article 14 of this Law relating to the rewording of the second paragraph shall enter into force on 1 January 2023’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U96	35. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Provides a complement to the transition... Article 18 of the draft law... with point 85 of the transitional provisions. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U97	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U98	Colleagues! As a child, a trainer taught one of these tricks, if you can say so, a technique. When you look at your position, you don't like position, but you can't figure out a move because it's so complicated, then one of the... and unable to orient... One of the good ways to find a solution is to stand up and go behind the opponent or to look at the same table on the other side. Then this proposal is, you can say, a turn of the table vice versa. What we do, listening to the government's concerns about the population and the desire that every Latvian citizen be adequately insured, we say - yes, we do so, we introduce all social contributions and their increase at least in the amount of the minimum wage, the obligation for every employee and also in the small regimes for each worker to do so, but the state, for its own part, compensates for these costs that will result in employers, so at this time of crisis, without increasing the burden on employers themselves and ensuring that every Latvian citizen is socially insured. And when there is a crisis, when there is unemployment, then there will be full social guarantees. This proposal also relates to proposal 37, which we say, in order for it not to be too populist, that... whether we are tasking the government to make a proposal, as the government will gradually reduce this obligation to cover the increase in social contributions over a period of one year, with their tax burden being shifted proportionately, gradually, wisely, according to the economic situation of the employers themselves. I call for this proposal to be supported. That would be just. It would really show that all these words used as euphemisms by the government, that this tax system will be fairer, more socially responsible, more equal... Indeed, it involves concerns for citizens rather than simply a desire to collect more money from small taxpayers and employers who provide part-time workers with a job.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U99	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U100	Yeah, colleagues. I, too, join this proposal and think it would be very normal. Every Member of the Saeima will have an answer to the question if someone asks him the same question that he asked me yesterday - who will pay me the EUR 200 that I will have less in my wallet from 1 January to pay public utilities, eat, maybe someone buys a medicine and so on. This is the proposal that responds to them, and I think the answer at this point is only partial. There are some areas that really... And really all the respect for artists who showed their perseverance and got some compensatory mechanism, but that compensatory mechanism is only for a short time. One example of this is with these compensatory mechanisms. The question is, what government is coming, and how much that government is interested in your situation. For example, a government will come whose artists will not be interested, and all the support mechanisms will disappear at that time... The next budgets will come. We see the ability of our government to work with the attraction of resources for itself, the ability of our government to maintain the traditional areas that have been successful in Latvia. At the moment, they have all become giftable areas, and this has nothing to do with the community. And in this context, it is unlikely that such support mechanisms will indeed remain. I therefore call on the Members of the Saeima, colleagues, to place this task on the government. You see how successful the task has been in terms of medical salaries, with a clearly understandable task in law. Once the Saeima has done so, perhaps in this case it could also do so and support such an amendment, perhaps by helping really Latvian entrepreneurs in some way, at least by showing in some way that Members have some sense of responsibility. Thank you. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U101	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U102	Mr. Valains, you would have fallen from the Moon. You ask the question: how will people pay them EUR 200 from 1 January. Well, they're not gonna pay! People are desperate. And it must be clear and clear who is responsible for what. That's power. And will Members have some responsibility? It must also be clear and clear - no, no, no. There will be a collective irresponsibleness, there will be a classic when it is said that it is a political compromise that it has been adopted by the Coalition Council... Cooperation Council and everywhere else. Have you not noticed, Mr Valaiņš, that the poorest part of the ruling coalition is not interested? You can speak intelligently and base every proposal on numbers, and you get it well in contrast with the coalition Members, but you do not need to be naive either, Mr Valaiņš. This coalition of power will not care about artists, hairdressers, manicure specialists, or small micro-entrepreneurs. All these groups of society will be subject to higher taxes next year, higher payments, less work and excesses will therefore be significantly lower on their own. Do you not receive letters from citizens as an active Member? Personally, I get it. I receive letters of despair, unfortunately, with every day ever more. And in me it does not create... If, at first, I was sorry about that and of course, empathy against those human problems... wanted to help everyone, but, I guess, you realize that the only solution is to be harsh, saying that a society that allows him to be treated in this way - the society deserves it. So the only way to change something is to start to prevent society from doing so... the attitude of power. There are many of their letters, and that is a simple question: why does power always decide for people's harm? For ordinary people. And the answer is very simple, too, because the ordinary man allows it. I also recommend that you, Mr. Valaiņš, open your eyes and realize that, from 1 January, people will not have to pay... these EUR 200 or other euro, because the power does not help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U103	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U104	Under no circumstances can I agree with my colleague Aldim Gobzem for his collective irresponsibility. As far as we can, we are also trying to explain what will happen and the allocation of these responsibilities. In my opinion, the responsibility will be very simple. There will be a bad Saeima who will have voted in favour of all these bad amendments, and then there will be a good government that will provide these good support mechanisms, think and care. And the bad Saeima that accepted this. But it is my task and your duty, Mr Gobzem, to do everything possible for the public to see that there is such an association of political parties... Development/About! The New Unity, the National Association, the KPV LV and the New Conservative Party (who are trying to avoid all this) are those who are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U105	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U106	Yes, Mr. Valains! As I once wanted to say, then you have finally begun, and that must be done. It must be explained to the public that the responsibility for these laws adopted at the Saeima lies not with the bad Saeima, which is the voting machine, but with the government at the forefront of Krišjānis Kariņš. And it must be said to the public clearly and lightly. Otherwise, society thinks that the Saeima is the one that makes decisions, but in fact, decisions have been made for a long time. You know that very well, Mr. Valaiņš. You know that no discussion is taking place at the time of the adoption of the budget, and this must continue to be the subject of a clear and clear debate. I would invite you to follow my example regularly. I know that this is not pleasant to the coalition of power, but it is true, and this must be said about so that society is also educated.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U107	Time to break. Another... So, colleagues, it's time for the announcement. Today's birthday is celebrated by our fellow Member, Anita Muižniece, and we welcome him! (Applause) There's also a record of Members. It's over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U108	We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. Debate on proposal 35 The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U109	Yes, honourable colleagues! We can see that the changes in the taxes in question are also marked as an additional position in thesewitnesses. Consequently, there is certainly a cost for the national administration to sort out this area. And we also see that the Ministry of Finance has launched a new information campaign “Your Taxes – Your Country”. This campaign will certainly pay, either, at least 100,000, if not more, from the taxpayers' wallets. So, of course, here is the question, of course, whether, if you try to cool up to these small regimes and then pay from the state budget, from the same taxpayers' wallets, to administer these regimes, to advertise these regimes and, more importantly, to provide support to the chosen groups or individuals, whether it is necessary to shift them from one pocket to another and whether, in fact, the benefits will be the ones you have planned. Because, as we can see from the information provided by the Ministry of Finance, this benefit from the taxpayer... This tax benefit is not as much as expected given that the economic downturn is obvious. Therefore, in order to stimulate the economy, I think that reducing the opportunities for small taxpayers is more than short-sighted. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U110	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U111	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 23, against - 55, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U113	36. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supplement the transitional provisions with a point requiring the Cabinet of Ministers to present a new proposal for amendments to this Law on Social Insurance for Self-Employed Social Insurance from 2022 by 1 July 2021. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U115	37. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. It is envisaged to supplement Article 18 of the draft law with point 86 of the transitional provisions. And this is due to the 35th proposal discussed above. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U116	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U117	This proposal provides for an initial increase (Sound interruption) ... prepares a plan to shift these charges over years to the self-employed and other part-time social (Sound break.) ... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure And, colleagues, we have actually also been greatly inspired by such an approach, given that this April a relatively fresh study was published by the OECD and the International Labour Organisation, whose main objective is to analyse the experience of various countries in increasing social security for self-employed workers. And some of the most important things that are mentioned in the notes are that it is actually necessary to try to ensure a gradual... either, a smooth transition to general mode. It has a number of measures that are necessary, including simplifying and making the general regime more attractive, including by providing support for specific professions. Germany, France, where a special fund for the provision of social contributions to creative persons has been set up, is an example, including taking into account the nature of seasonality. Agriculture is also mentioned as an example where it is recommended that the annual section be taken into account for the calculation of social contributions, rather than the monthly or quarterly section. We colleagues have just done the opposite. And, among other things, the package must also offer events. If we want self-employed regimes to become employees, then there must also be some kind of support measures, such as unemployment... Account should also be taken of that year when calculating unemployment benefit... the time a person has spent as a self-employed person. I mean, the stage... This period must also be taken into account when calculating the length of service. This is just one example, but there is a whole series and a package of measures to be taken. But the same study and policy analysis also make it quite clear that the time of the community is not the right time to carry out such reforms of the self-employed's payments. On the contrary, the state must think that, even if these people have not been adequately socialised so far, as they are now, at this time, to ensure access to quality health care, social benefits, including social contributions for the lower income self-employed on the part of the state. And that, I think, is just logical. We invite you to follow this example and to follow the recommendations.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U118	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U119	Colleagues! This proposal... The meaning and nature of this proposal are also clearly set out in the text of the proposal, which requires the government to submit a bill to the Saeima by 1 June 2021. This proposal is largely in line with my previous debate on this subject that immediately after these votes, political parties will start to fight for who will introduce a better special regime, if this happens. What Ms Reizniece-Ozola said about farmers who will now have to report regularly on tax payments... And here Mrs Petraviča was very good at explaining, in her explanation of substance, that there was no discussion in the government. And that's a single regime. What Mrs Petravičas explained about the unitary regime is already... That is why there are exceptions. And in this case, that exception for farmers was exactly that... seasonality, so that they are not burdened in an administrative place where they do not need to... You don't have to do that. In this case, its common approach will be burdensome, quite the other way round. And that... There has been such a norm for years, and no one has complained about it. We therefore propose, in this case, by law, that the government be required to come forward with amendments as quickly as possible, which could improve this situation for taxpayers. I would like to quote one point that is in the media about all this: "Payment taxes, I'm going to be skinless soon, just like all of us in this country. European media has acknowledged that Latvia has been and is the country's oldest country against its citizens in these difficult times. I'm trying not to look at the news, but so much to see our situation during the Chinese Mayor, because close friends are in hospitals where it's not good at all - staff have processed, there's no place. I received a greeting from the President at the celebration, and I was not happy.” These words have been said by our well - known writer, Nora Iksten. I think very many people in society, seeing these changes and seeing it their difficult everyday life in this situation... I think it's very difficult. At the same time, public administration continues to raise wages. And it's the leaders on the pretext of the law on unitary remuneration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U120	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U121	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U122	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U123	38. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It provides for supplementing the draft law with transitional rules, which lays down the procedure in which the self-employed person anticipates his expected income, provides information to the State Revenue Service... together with the fact that he is reporting on the previous quarter until the 15th day of the first month of each quarter. And then - the procedure by which the State Social Insurance Agency cooperates with the State Revenue Service and how these contributions are calculated and aggregated at the end of the year, and, as you say, converted... and is either paid or reimbursed... This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U124	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U125	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Yesterday I had the opportunity to say that the 38th proposal and the 17th proposal supported are fundamental elements of this draft law. 38. The nature and consequences, if any, of the proposal are as follows: The self-employed makes a mandatory contribution of 10 per cent of its forecast income and, if it fails to achieve a minimum contribution in a quarter (it should be borne in mind that the forecast may not correspond to actual income!) , the minimum deposit will be recovered... And yet a penalty. I understand that there is no presumption of innocence in the taxation of income, therefore the Financial Police of the State Revenue Service is simply decided to stay for life. In itself, this presumption is quite cynical, though understandable, but it looks particularly challenging for the low-income. The Russians have such an expression “Step the poor behind the nose”, that is, try to take away something more when everything is already taken away. Taxpayers with relatively high income and savings may also be among the self-employed: they are sworn notaries, auditors, lawyers, practitioners (including family doctors), pharmacists and veterinarians. But most self-employed are individual entrepreneurs who do not have any savings, who spend all their turnover on food, clothing and utilities. And these are, for example, masters of beauty salons, who don't smell at all in an emergency. We were... Both Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Mr Valaiņš and other Members... If I don't, it was Mr. Gobzem... already listed a whole range of professions in which the self-employed work – hairdressers, cosmetologists, plumbers, confectioners, bakers, as well as home teachers and rehearsers. Their leadership, with a regressive tax, forces them to become cheap employees on the labour market and to compete for jobs. And that's not the only effect. This regulation is simply a predictable path to shadow business. If an old teacher who no longer works at school and tries to make something of the hours she offers to her students and does it in her own home... if she has such risks, she just... No one will ever know about taking her class.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U126	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U127	Yes, colleagues! As we also see from the Ministry of Finance's information campaign, these are only praises for how the taxpayers will live, how comfortable and well-lived, the tax regime will be simplified, and a very positive change awaits the taxpayers next year, not to mention what it will actually bring. I agree with the previous speaker, a colleague who said that the Saeima would be responsible for all this, because the Cabinet will always find a way... In particular, the Ministry of Finance will find a way to advertise yourself in a useful light and transform the defect (in words!) on the effect. People who don't have to pay for food or apartment will tell them: you actually live in a very simplified regime, we have taken care of it. That is why I would like to reiterate my call for this draft law to be referred back to the Commission, just as I called for the previous draft law to be returned to the Commission. I hope I don't have to apply separately to this subject... on the procedure because we know that the e-Parliament provides for a very long deadline for the application procedure. I therefore ask you to take this debate into account. And when we vote... Before we vote in favour of the whole draft law, please give another opportunity to the coalition colleagues to correct their mistakes, because we see that some of them who have studied a little bit have realised that their mistakes will have to be corrected either in this way or otherwise. I call for the return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U128	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U129	I have a great request, now, in a few minutes before the vote, for every Member to read the substance of this proposal carefully once again. Once again and carefully, because the rapporteur unfortunately deceived you - this is not about reporting and calculating the tax on the basis of a specific... to a specific income, to a real money that has already entered a particular employee... self-employed. It is clearly stated here that a self-employed person, who is not a worker at the same time, predicts his income and informs about it the State Revenue Service by 15 July 2021 on the third quarter of 2021. The third quarter will come - when? After July 15th. That means what? What are we doing? We make people live in fear, figure out, and fantasize their income. Moreover, the fact that the State Revenue Service is very free to interpret the word ‘income’ must also be taken into account. I know journalists who... who had to prove that he had a fee, for example, entered an account with a three-month delay... refers to the income of the previous quarter. A person can predict that he will have that income, but that money could actually come later. However, he will have to pay this mandatory social contribution when the State Revenue Service tells it, because this proposal also deals with punishment. Please read Article 89. What's this? Not only will its own contribution be compulsory, but also its late payment and penalty payments. Well, that's crazy! Read it, please! And if you vote now, you... you will have to be responsible for this! How can we predict... How a person can predict his income! Of course, I absolutely agree with what Mr. Pimenova said that this is a straight way to the shadow economy, to (A sound defect.) ... be used to lying to the state, but - defending yourself, self, your income, your family, your well-being, having children to eat and having to pay for the heating. Read it now, please! Why can't it be calculated from real income, and point? Why should a person predict his income at a time when nothing can be predicted?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Read and vote, please ‘no’!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U130	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U131	Yeah, thank you. It should be recognised that the amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance are closely linked to the amendments to the law proposed by... amendments to the law on micro-enterprises as well as personal income tax. And that's all... The package as a whole... It forms an increasingly complex, less understandable, human-difficulty system. There are experts and experts (including non-governmental organisations involved) who say that already existing tax systems are complex, complex and difficult to perceive. Very many of the Members of the Saeima and representatives of the parties, participating in discussions organised by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, promised in the 2018 election campaign that they would think about how to simplify the tax system. They promised that it was in relation to the population... The tax system... Social insurance is one of the next payments for work and is done by workers and employers. The whole package, which is now being proposed within the framework of tax reform, is making their system very difficult. I think the government should think about it... not how to complicate and complicate it, but to simplify it, - to find clear and understandable solutions and introduce them from the beginning, and only then to phase out those segments where there are risks or not... additional social security tools. I therefore believe that these amendments to this law should not be supported and the government should take responsibility because... There is one important thing that concerns taxpayers: how the government, as politicians, deals with the money that taxpayers pay... it does not appear to the public that the creation of an ever more complex and relentless tax system for small businesses is the most beneficial; in return, they do not receive transparent and effective use of tax-paid money. Please do not support amendments to the law “On State Social Insurance”! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U132	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U133	Yes, colleagues! Indeed, the arrangements for administering minimum social contributions for the self-employed are very complex. Perhaps this is because the government did so in the last days, evenings, nights, trying to change the amount of the tax, as well as its payment and control procedures. I agree with colleagues who believe that this system is extremely unsuccessful, making self-employed people expect a quarterly income, otherwise it would be an obligation to pay not 10 per cent of the pension savings, but a minimum social contribution of a much higher amount. I add to this comment... to this proposal and to the whole concept... I would really be happy to hear Mr Pavļuta's comment, for example. I think he was one of those worst-- What's it called? For bombers. Then, when a few years ago the forecastable minimum came into force, this administration procedure was very loudly criticised, calling it complicated, unjust (a still beautiful epithet was applied) and promising hasty - hasty! - to fix it all. Unfortunately, colleagues, two years have passed, but not last year, nor this... in this tax reform, I see no proposal trying to simplify the administration of personal income tax, on the contrary - you again... You are even more rude: you are now predicting a predictable tax in the context of national social contributions, making the self-employed (as colleagues have said), most likely to cheat - even with good intentions! - the estimated amount of quarterly income in order to reduce the amount of money to be paid... the amount of the contributions to be paid. At a time of crisis, in particular, but also from the point of view of the complexity of administration, this is not acceptable. Indeed, it seems that you want to make this regime so difficult for the self-employed so that people want to get rid of it as quickly as possible and look for other opportunities, thereby complementing, perhaps, its professions... Today I have seen what are the most common professions in the private sector, what employees in Latvia are the most. You can mention it, but... Well, 26 thousand... almost 27 thousand are sellers, 22 thousand are keepers. Well, these lines will probably also be able to complement the self-employed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U134	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U135	I cannot agree with what my colleague, Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, said about sellers. In my opinion, the sales lines will only fall in time. We see how big... and more and more remains... there are these cash registers where sellers no longer need. I would like to turn to Development/About! , especially by Mr. Pavlut, who was - really was! - one of the biggest critics of tax reform. Mr. Feldman, too... The UK, CPV LV - everyone very beautifully criticised this complex system, which is seen to have come along with tax reform. What you have done in two years is you have done an absolute zero on any proposal to improve this... Previous... the current, existing system, thus recognising, in principle, that you can do nothing better and that the current system is good enough. Instead, you offer the self-employed... for self-employed workers, this is a very specific, complex procedure. As I said, this complicated order was... It was stressed by already submitting this bill to the Saeima that it is too complicated for taxpayers - to understand in general what the state expects of them at the moment. This difficult order... Nothing has changed very much in nature - it is still very, very difficult. It will be very difficult for taxpayers to understand what the country wants from them. In essence, this is all more and more complex. The question is, what do you want to achieve in this way? I do not understand the reasons why the Saeima is being proposed for this type of amendment and why you do not listen to the criticism of the opposition, but to the stabbed heads... I think that if we were in the Saeima's Chamber and were to look at these issues in the normal way, then you would probably all be sitting in a stabbed head and you would hardly be proud to take over by voting on these proposals. Now that we are working in remote mode, all of us, of course, continue to vote heroically. I call for this proposal not to be supported, nor for the entire budget to be supported and finally to come and... come to someone, especially those who, as my colleague said, baboons about how bad things have been before... new changes are coming... Well, here's the new change. Latvian society, enjoy it! Mr Pavļuta, I hope that one comment on this is welcome from you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U136	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U137	Good afternoon, everybody! Listening to this debate, I... Colleagues, I am forced to say to you that you simply do not understand the genius of this government, of our powerful, powerful government - what they are trying to achieve with these amendments. That is how this government is trying to create new jobs, because what happens next? In order to be able to maintain this absurd scheme, additional employees will be required in the state administration service, that is, in the State Revenue Service; then it will be necessary also in the Financial Police, which will punish those who will investigate these fraudsters - self-employed. So a whole business is meeting - there will be additional revenue for the budget! And you are critical of all this now! You have to understand that the government is doing what it can, doing according to your own understanding. I mean, the government's understanding is... Well, by analogy... we will compare with fishermen who do not want to go to the sea to throw their nets, to pull out the fish and figure out that he'll just drop a can, to cut a can, so that the herring can just get in there: one round, one side, the other round, the other side. He will then make it comfortable and say: “Hop! See, I have done all things.” That's the way this government... It shows the genetic awareness and capacity of this government, its ability to respond adequately to this situation. Of all the self-employed people I have met, no one is going to take part in this scheme. Everyone is going to go out in the shadow economy. You can imagine, say, hairdressers, who will now sit at the computer, predict their revenue, report them to the State Revenue Service, coordinate it all? Well, sorry, it's just... it is the maximum... It's just a remoteness from reality... that's all that's happening at the moment... And - very deserved. Very deserved! Because while there are sheep, its axe - and axe more and more. I warned about this many years ago. And you, the Latvian society, get it completely. And this is just the beginning of all the miracles that you will still experience. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U138	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U139	Yeah... I would like to turn to Mr Valaiņa again. Mr. Valaiņš referred to the fact that if this sitting were in the Saeima Chamber and... coalition Members would sit down on their heads... I say once again: Mr. Valaiņš, you have not understood that you are responsible for this budget and that small entrepreneurs, hairdressers, manicurers, artists, all micro-enterprises tax payers, self-employed, authors, photographers and so on, and so on... the deterioration of their quality of life will take place not because of the Members who have stabbed their heads, but because of this government, Mr Kariņš. This week, we have heard in Parliament a competition in the debate - a competition for what the ministry has done less (not - which has been better but - which has done less and less!) . But we should not forget that we also have a head of government and that so... The budget is drawn up in the Cabinet of Ministers, in the ministries and brought to the Saeima for approval. And the Saeima confirms this in fact with minimal changes. So the Head of Government is responsible for drawing up the budget, and we have Krišjānis Kariņš as Head of Government. And Krišjānis Kariņš has no head. Krišjānis Kariņš tells us that we have a lot of money, despite the fact that half a billion is a budget gap on this day. Mr. Valains! These accusations must be directed towards Mr Kariņš when considering the budget, not the Members. Members depend on the decision of the group leader, they fear that they will lose their... I don't know, something... some travel or something else, and that is understandable. Responsibility should be required of those who take decisions, not those who take decisions. And the rest of the section... Mr. Zarins said very precisely... In fact, this budget will not be extortion of thousands in the shadow economy, but, I allow, as many as tens of thousands of people. People will not do what the country is imposing on them at the moment, because people must feed their children first and not pay tax if they do not have any income. Pay a tax if a person has not received income - well, that absurd is not anywhere in the world. So, people, you have to wake up and stop being a sheep that you pick up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U140	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U141	Yes, it is necessary to agree here with what Mr Gobzem said that Mr Kariņš has not hit his head at all; he is very proud of this budget, with what has been increased, so the ministers' salaries and the Prime Minister's wages are also to be increased. Moreover, he also said in his interview recently publicly that micro-enterprises would increase their tax on 25 per cent - that is not enough; that it is still unfair and that, in fact, they, like all other small regime payers, would have to pay much more - well, at least as large companies. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are already seeing the consequences of this complicated tax administration provided for by this law. For the second reading, the Cabinet of Ministers has asked to allocate EUR 511 620 in the budget - to whom? Improving or adapting the IT system of the State Revenue Service to the administration of this new procedure. Colleagues, it's already paying!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U142	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U143	Colleagues! I can't agree with Mr. Gobzem for Karin... Knight... Yes, Karin... will walk in a highly raised head and will say even finally thank the Saeima that it has accepted such an amendment. Problem... and those who are directly responsible are the Members of the Saeima, who allow all of this, who vote in favour of it all. What is strange is what happens within this coalition that politicians have become such political commentators... And I don't understand... the fact that members of the coalition, such as the National Alliance, one of the leaders, Roberts Zīle, are distributing public statements... and colleagues of the National Association tell us how they have fought... The BIP has also fought... you know what and much you've done, but the result is zero. And that is why it is primarily the responsibility of political parties voting in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U144	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U145	Mr Valaiņš, you probably do not understand that the problem is that the Saeima can or does not fully approve the budget. And the coalition Members are stuck because Prime Minister Kariņš has in fact not looked at such a possibility - where budget expenditure could be reduced. For example, there is no reduction in the public sector; there is only an increase in its wages. And Karin does it, not the Members. Members cannot draw up a new budget, it must be done by the government, it must be done by the Prime Minister. And the budgetary base should be reviewed; this is not happening for any year. We are in this debate at all... For a week's debate... There has never been a revised base. Revenue... Reductions in expenditure, i.e. reductions in the public sector... How many institutions can we reduce what we do not really need in these times of crisis, and what functions can be reviewed - there is no discussion at all about this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U146	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U147	I will use the opportunity to call once again not only the members of the opposition, but also the ruling coalition, to vote not only against this absurd proposal, but also against amendments to the law “On State Social Insurance” in general, as this draft law is absolutely criminal in crisis conditions, directed against the welfare of the Latvian people. These proposals and amendments are not considered, are not logical, are not systemic. Please be reasonable, be responsible for action, because we are legislators. We will come into history with certain actions. May your actions be fair and responsible to the people of Latvia and its welfare! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U148	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U149	Thank you. Hello! I think that this proposal is based on the assumption that our self-employed persons - Prime Minister, Ministers, President-in-Office - can predict their income, especially in view of those amendments that have already been approved. Perhaps this is why they believe that it will be as easy for the State Revenue Service to report to the rest of the crisis on what happiness awaits them in the next quarter... and thus all will have joy and happiness. One point. Two points. Naturally, this proposal is fictional in offices, it's not for people... and about people. But when it comes to law as such - there may be a good idea for each other to work on a normal life situation where there is no need to deal with a pandemic, when there is no need to think about unemployment, when there is no need to think about an economy... individual sectors of the economy and the economy as a whole are going through a crisis as deep as society as a whole as a result of a pandemic. In the absence of these exceptional circumstances and emergency situations, it would also be possible to discuss and discuss in principle legislative changes, especially in sensitive areas such as tax payments. I think that now is not the time to experiment, so I am calling for the rejection of both this proposal and the draft law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U150	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U151	Yeah... I will now make a very brief summary at the end of this debate so that everyone can understand. This bill is to be seen as a proof of the arrogance, failure and stupidity of the government, as proof of how the power deals with the problem that the power has been entrusted with, namely that it is simply put on the shoulders of the people without giving any solution. Like a gypsy did with his horse. Remember how he starved the horse - didn't eat and would be used to living without drinking, but it just took and died. That's the way this power is going on now because it's taken away from reality... their importance, their failure, and their inability to really understand the situation. But it's very deserved! We get what we deserve. And I would ask you to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U152	The name is Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U153	Such a change in taxation must not be simply a poor coalition agreement. There must be an agreement with the public. We asked Mr Zakatistova all day to come and explain these changes, to justify the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. Instead, Mr. Zakatistov came to the Saeima - and what did he do? He encouraged Members to sign the motion for us (A sound break.) ... reduction of time. A reduction in our speaking time, as the opposition only speaks and informs the public about what is waiting for the public next year. What the public will hear from the Ministry of Finance will be beautifully attractive stories about how the Ministry of Finance seems to “take care of” the tax regime. But Mr. Zakatistov, instead of explaining it, just takes and closes our mouth. A respected society, that's what you have to hear! You will not be told by “Panorama” (Sound Break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U154	(Sound rupture) ... Oh, my God. Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U155	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to reiterate and clarify the substance and meaning of this proposal. So: if a self-employed person predicts his income or... to be able to understand, more precisely, that this is revenue, of which expenditure has already been deducted for the next quarter... by the 15th day of the first month of this quarter... which coincides with the moment when he could say in advance... A year ago... has reported on the previous quarter... So in one operation and at the same time when he enters this electronic declaration system, he does it. This does not need to be done at any other time. Then he will pay this social contribution from the actual income, not from the forecast. So he's going to pay only from actual income. The difference is in the rate: until now, it has been a contribution of five percent, now it will be 10 percent, but all this will be for his pension insurance. So this date... Identical... coincides with the date he... until which he must report on the previous year... income of the previous quarter. The second fundamental question is that, if the self-employed person has not submitted this forecast income, it means that he is convinced that he already knows that he earns more than the minimum wage every month. Then he could be told that the National Social Security Agency will simply calculate these minimum contributions if he does not have any other income from which the contributions have already been partially covered, and then there will be those 160 euros for a month to the end of the year. And at the end of the year... He will have also declared and paid this income every quarter, knowing that he has to do it, and then, in the end, it will just be compared if it coincides. And if it be paid too much, then it will be returned; if too little, then it will have to be paid. The crucial thing is that a self-employed person has provided this proof of this income, then it means that he will pay it anyway from the fact rather than from the forecast. I stress again! And the State Revenue Service is also currently controlling the self-employed and, I could say, carrying out checks. That is what is happening now. And fines or periodic penalty payments are in cases where this economic operator, a self-employed person, has deliberately reduced these amounts or has not shown... or something else happens. This is also happening at the moment, and the State Revenue Service performs such duties. He will in no way have to pay a penalty at the end of the year for predicting something inappropriate because he will report each quarter for the previous quarter after the fact and pay for the fact. And he's going to pay only from real income. That proposal that was before - that will have to be paid in addition to this... It's not here anymore. So there's nothing to pay more than... only the real income, and that is also the essence of this proposal. And the bonus or refund will happen after... at the beginning of the following year for the previous year. In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, all these explanations were provided and were also commented on the whole process and order. Since those Members who participated in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission meeting can explain in detail to their group colleagues. In the Commission, this proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission was supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U156	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! - 59, 31, abstaining - not. The proposal is supported. Please enable a section on the procedure. Ms Jūlija Stepanenko has applied for the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U157	Colleagues! I will just remind you once again, if I may, that we are asking you to refer this draft law back to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission in order to correct these errors, which we talked about in the context of the whole draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U158	So Member Stepanenko has asked to refer the draft law back to the commission responsible. Colleagues! We will vote in favour of returning the draft law to the commission responsible. Is the section of the procedure activated? We can vote for it if? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax)! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been returned to the commission. Once again, on behalf of the Commission, Member Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U159	The draft law was supported by the Commission. I call for support to be given at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U160	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! - 58, against - 34, refrains - not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Members Jansons, Latkovsky, Zakaistov, Ples, Jušas, Leiiņš, Stein, Možville, Asheraden and Baumane are asking the Saeima, at its remote emergency session on 23 November this year, to set a period of debate - two minutes, speaking for the first time, and one minute, speaking for the second time... until items on the agenda are examined. We must vote on this. Please activate section on procedure! ( Internouncing call.) You can talk about or against it, but not debate it. ( Interface: “On”, “to”... “ You have to apply to speak by activating the button! ( Pause) Mr. Gobzem, will you talk about it or 'no'? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “About!” ) So “for” has applied to speak to Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U161	Colleagues! I said yesterday or last night that I was surprised that you have not reduced the speaking time of the budget debate to one minute or even shorter. Then, when you get the next minute, then also offer me to sign this paper. Well, there's nothing to do! The coalition's not talking. The coalition looks in the mouth of Kariņš, who with a raised head destroys the small business in fact. Well, as you say, there's nothing too much to cool down to the budget, which is the tax raising budget, to the budget, which... A coalition cannot be made clear and clear that, in fact, tax raising is done for the reason that... not much money, but there is a huge deficit in the budget, and this deficit is in fact not linked to the crisis, but to the fact that our country is objectively more competitive than our neighbours, with the countries in the region, because our country does not support entrepreneurs in the way it does in other countries. People see it all. People also see that we're going exactly the same thing... we are implementing exactly the same scenario as last year, when the speaking time was gradually reduced... And this speaking time, I think... Well, what are you starting, my dear coalition colleagues! Well, that's what it takes for a minute! Now shorten everything! I'll sign it, I'll support it. The sooner we, as we say, get to the bottom of the crisis, the better. The sooner such a budget, against the people, will be adopted, the better. There's nothing else... Listen a lot to that opposition. In this context, I would like to say to the public that you too, society I think, deserve not to listen to the debate on the budget, because you do not argue, you do not have the time to increase taxes in times of crisis. You are afraid, or you are lazy, or there are other reasons why you are not. In other countries, this is true. And in the countries where they do it, people care more about them. In countries where people do not argue, they do not go to the streets - they do not. It's an absolute regularity. It's deserved, and it's just normal. And as a politician, I... here there are two feelings: as a citizen of the Republic of Latvia - one, as a politician - the other. As a citizen of the Republic of Latvia, I am, of course, sorry to see how the coalition of power with Krišjānis at the forefront of Kariņš treats the people of Latvia, but as a politician it is very beneficial to me that the coalition of power does what I do. It's for me as an opposition representative personally... and not only for me, but also for other representatives of the opposition, make it only more popular. And that is why I will support - precisely for this reason... The more the coalition of power will do such things, the earlier the power will change! And we're very happy to... In an hour, I think we could make the next proposal - shorten to one minute. Then after some hour or one-and-a-half of the time we submit - shorten for 30 seconds! And then to the end of the day, realizing that this week we will not really finish looking at the budget - well, then maybe we will cut off the whole debate and simply approve the budget as it is! Because, after all, in a democratic country, there's already a debate for something, right? No such is needed for the main financial document of the country! I very much like how this scenario develops: people will have higher taxes, the coalition of power - worse ratings. As a politician, I am very, very satisfied. I am dissatisfied with the fact that people have to stop pitying and understand - you, dear society, are co-responsible for what is happening in Latvia! It is not just the bad politicians and good people. The good people allow what bad politicians do. And when the good people get up in their feet, the bad politicians will end up working - this is what happens. And that is absolutely true! You may like or dislike what Gobzem says, but Gobzem says righteousness. Think about it! And think about why Latvia is the poorest or one of the poorest countries in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U162	Mr. Igor Pimenov has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U163	Yeah, thank you. I didn't expect to be given a name, but thank you. I understand that with 10 seconds it will be enough for some Members to say everything they think about the government and the Saeima, but the budget debate is undoubtedly Latvia's main political calendar event. And in all the countries of the European Union, it can be seen that economic policy is sometimes not even perceptible and quite eclectic, but budgetary policy is quite systemic and very articulate. Few politicians can explain the priorities of Latvia's economic policy, but everyone knows about budget deficits, fiscal discipline and public debt. The draft budget is starting to be written in March. Members of the Government Coalition may participate in working groups of the government, ministries, colleges, at any time and without time, in any discussions held in executive bodies, unless they wish. You will be surprised to learn that members of the opposition are also following budgetary events as far as possible - reading newspapers, attending think tanks, participating in meetings of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and (think!) writes its proposals to the budget - with the intention of putting them into the debate not only in the Saeima Commission but also in the Saeima sitting, with the participation of all Members. And why? To face the hypocritical and arrogant regulatory barrier: here, at the end of the budget year, you have two minutes and feel free to use them as you wish. Those who propose to shorten Members' speaking time do not have to say anything about the budget themselves! Instead of them, the government says everything. They are calm and confident that parliamentary ethics is not violated. I am very sorry that the signatories to this proposal include the Saeima veterans I have respected. I call for this idea to be voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U164	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. We will vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of reducing the time for debate in the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 23 November this year: two minutes - speaking for the first time, and one minute - speaking for the second time (until the agenda item is on the agenda)! Please, let's vote! - 59, 31, abstaining - not. Consequently, the time for the debate is two minutes, speaking for the first time, one minute, speaking for the second time. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone. Yeah, I'm sorry. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U165	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In the budget and financial (tax) commission we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax””. We have received 66 proposals. 1. - Proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Article 1 of the draft law, which supplements the second paragraph of Article 1, with the word ‘reduced’, is excluded. The proposal involves changes to the patent fee regulation. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U166	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U167	Colleagues! In the short term, too, we, as the opposition, will do our job: let us try to inform both those colleagues who have not participated in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and the general public about the planned tax changes. It will at least be free or cheaper than the Ministry of Finance's advertising campaigns. And one such change is the government's offer and the idea of the elimination of the patent fee that has just been almost supported by the Saeima. We believe that it is not the right time to leave more than three thousand patent-payers without such a comfortable, simply accessible tax regime, driving them away from the shadow economy. At the same time, when the tax reform was being drafted, we thought quite the opposite: how to extend this kind of - simply manageable - tax regime, to think about a patent fee or a voucher... on the possibility of paying, for example, for small restaurants that employ additional staff during the season as hostels or attract additional staff not needed as regular workers on the basis of a contract of employment. We thought how to give a chance even if a man... If a plumber comes to him, for example, he repairs the sink and is not ready to issue an invoice... that a person himself as a customer in his place, in order to be able to sleep calmly and feel like a conscious citizen, would be able to pay a tax in a convenient way for this work done. These proposals, with a reduction in the patent fee, go the opposite, excluding the possibility of simply, conveniently paying the tax, especially for those groups that are mainly working with private individuals in providing their small-scale private services. This is not acceptable, and I call for this proposal not to be supported in order to rule out this idea.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U168	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U169	Thank you, the honourable Saeima, for reducing the time for debate. I would just like to remind you that the coalition Members may have a short memory, and I call on you to remember how such moves ended last year when we saw the budget. This is non-legislative and, most probably, we will also discuss the procedure during the examination of this budget. But with regard to this proposal, we have... start seeing personal income tax... see concerning these patent fees. This is where we were talking... This is in some ways due to this complexity of the tax system. And I call on Mr. Pavilut, maybe Mr. Feldman... Those who, in the pre-election period, have spoken very long and widespread about how complicated and wrong the tax system is in the country, tell us what they have done in two years and how these offers will make it simpler. Now, the only information we can... against which we as the opposition can debate in this parliamentary debate, there are only those statements that are made from the coalition's leading politicians in the public space, such as the way Mr Zakatistov has spoken about a model of uniform remuneration. I would call on journalists to ask these questions more actively, and perhaps through journalists we could come to the answers while we are debating here. And we, as the opposition, will be... There will be an opportunity for us to take the opposite view in this e-tribine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U170	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U171	Dear colleagues, I also join - I thank you for the position that has been taken to reduce the time of this debate. I would ask you, colleagues, to think really... from the very beginning... What are we doing here? We are a hundred people, we represent Latvian citizens, Latvian citizens, very different people, very different social groups. And the point of democracy, colleagues, is that our task here is to deal with words, colleagues, with arguments, with debates. And this is being done within democracy, so that those people we represent, colleagues - so that they do not go to the streets and start having a relationship with stabbings and other methods. I therefore call on the Saeima Presidency in particular to think so carefully about what you are doing to promote this culture of parliamentary debate. Is what you are doing to accept democratic values? The fact that some fellow Members are already openly calling people to go to the streets means, in fact, that what is going on here is the process that is going on here, it's going out, it's going out, colleagues. I therefore call on the coalition Members to remember, however, what we are doing here, why we are doing it, what democracy is. Remember, our job here is... No matter how unpleasant it is for some colleagues, our job is to debate - to debate! - for the majority of offers. And while we are debating, while we are doing things like this, people are not starting to do things differently, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U172	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U173	An excellent speech from Vjačeslav Dombrovskis's debate! Just as I actually wanted to emphasise exactly the same thing - that in a parliamentary republic... If we read the Constitution and the Saeima's order roll, then... The sittings of the Saeima, including those of the budget, are the place where the debate is to take place. So our job is to speak from a tribunal, in this case a vebinary, but the direct job of a Member is to speak and explain to the public - not only to his constituents, but also to the constituents of other political views - to give their reasoning, to convince, to oppose, to agree... and in that spirit. At present, this democratic thing is being reduced every hour - one minute. And that leads to one very... Well, one very serious problem. If last year you looked at it with such a smin in your face, then I can claim absolutely safe today that in January there will be 10,000 people on the streets of the Republic of Latvia. I will personally call for this in January, as a member of the Saeima, for a large protest campaign, because the majority of the Saeima ignores the interests of the majority of society. And if we look at sociology data, we can see that 70 percent of companies do not trust this parliament or this government. In January there will be a large protest campaign organised by the Saeima Member Aldis Gobzems! And the rest. The responsibility for all this lies with the Head of Government, Krišjānis Kariņš, and this must be remembered in every speech in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U174	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U175	I will call for support for this proposal by the opposition, because it is logical and it is another call for the ruling coalition to go the way of reason. When it comes to what has just happened, so to say, a reduction in the time of the debate - I think it is the purest sabotage of parliamentary work. You thus renounce your duty to work for the people of Latvia. During this budget debate, you completely ignore the public interest of Latvia in being informed about how laws are being changed, about what is waiting for our citizens next year if we are talking about their income, tax system and welfare in general. So - you ignore the interests of the Latvian people, you ignore your duties, you spoil the work of the parliament! The members of the coalition ruling under these circumstances, who have just voted in favour of the current reduction in the time of the debate, should voluntarily give up their share of the salary, which applies at least to the time of the debate on the state budget, because the ruling coalition, with the exception of only a few Members, does not participate in this debate, do nothing to inform Latvian society about how and why the amendments to the specific laws are adopted and why this budget is adopted specifically. You're not doing anything. Then don't get a salary for it, be honest to the end.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U176	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U177	Dear colleagues, I would like to call on those brave Members from the coalition who, instead of speaking on this budget, signed an application to shorten the time of the debate - Jansons, Latkovsky, Zakaistovs, Ples, Lejiņš, Jušas, Stein, Možville, Asheraden and Baumane... Except, of course... Thank you, Mr Janson, you have already spoken today... Mr Zakatistova, in particular, you are calling on us to come in these two minutes and tell the people why you are encouraging such terrible changes in the budget, because you do not want the opposition to talk about these changes. You have "couragefully" shortened the period of debate and closed the mouth of the opposition, at least trying to do so, but you will not, because we also have our own instruments with which we can get public hearing. You are truly ashamed of what you have done. Mr Zakatistova, you are under no circumstances worthy of a salary supplement or even a Member's salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U178	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U179	I would particularly like to call for this proposal to be discussed by two Members who signed up to the question of shortening the time of the debate. This is Mrs Baumane from Development/Par! , which is always in favour of democratic values on Twitter, and that is Mr Možville from the CPV LV; it is actually his first job, being in Parliament, to shorten the speaking time of the debate, because this Member has not spoken on any question. The others have been in a similar situation last year. I call on these Members to debate, show how to debate in a legal and democratic country rather than write on Twitter that they stand up for democracy, about the rule of law, and at the same time to do absolutely the opposite in their actions, thinking that society will not see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U180	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U181	Thank you. In support of proposal 1, however, I would like to say that perhaps it is also good that the myth begins to disappear, that we live in a democratic country, that we are talking and fighting for the rule of law, that we are a parliamentary republic, where Parliament has a major role to play in the Constitution. We are talking about a number of European values, which we are violating very easily and very simply, without thinking about the consequences. The question I was asked yesterday was whether I agreed or did not agree with the fact that the parliament had overturned power in the country. I said that, unfortunately, this is not the case, because Parliament has given this power... Successfully. Moreover, not even the Cabinet of Ministers has given up, because the Cabinet is not independent in its thinking, in its actions. And that's not the Coalition Council either. These are the people who influence the people of the coalition council who determine what to do with the same coalition council and all those who are associated with it. And it also shows where we live, how we live, how we will live. I think this is a false step: we need to shorten the time of the debate. Indeed, the budget documents - this is the programme that the country of Latvia will live in next year, in the next three years. And the fact that we actually allow such a formal approach today is a crime. I hope that perhaps once we will return to normal parliamentaryism and once we will start to make friends with our head.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U182	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U183	Thank you. Madam President, Colleagues! Significantly, right on this proposal, where in fact you want to limit... and the opposition calls for this not to... limit people and people's freedom to speak, create, explore, invent... We are all talking about the fact that you also want to restrict the work of members of the opposition. Well, in principle, you as a majority can limit our speaking time and perhaps even get there once until you don't have to talk at all, because that's how things can happen by default. You can put masks on people, but you can't ban these people from speaking. After all, you will not limit the opportunity to speak! And if you want to do this in a parliament where the real job is to debate and talk or try to at least listen to or express other kinds of thoughts... what other people think - people outside the parliament - then... You will not be able to put masks on all people, to ban or to impose a quiet Christmas in one household. People always find a way to express themselves. And our history, the events that were 30 years ago, shows that people always find ways to do it, how to address those who deny them the freedom to speak, create, figure out, celebrate and hear other people. Such times will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U184	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U185	Dear colleagues, I am, of course, calling for this proposal from the opposition to be supported. I also call on Members Janson, Latkovski, Zakaistov, Plēš, Leiens, Jušas, Stein, Možville, Asheradand and Bauman to do not undermine the democratic values of the republic, correct their mistakes and submit a proposal to return to the times of the debate which are scheduled in the parliamentary roll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U186	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U187	Yes, colleagues! From such times of debate, it makes little sense if only the opposition is debated. Of course, we are doing our job, we are focusing on those issues that the position would better keep silent in this budget, which could be better. The Prime Minister comes with a position: we will have a fairer tax system. And all the groups say: yes, a fairer tax system, why not? And let's get rid of the patent fee regime! There, my beautiful offer for the complexity of the tax system! These are the positions of power that sound. And the population is becoming more socially protected at that time? And here is the opposition, which, together with a number of non-governmental organisations, expresses a different opinion. And unfortunately, Mr Pavļuta still lacks the courage to come and tell us why he systematically supports this approach. However, you...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U188	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U189	Yeah... Colleagues! I turn to Member Ata Lejiņa, who signed this proposal. Could you please not communicate this proposal... Communicate also Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš, a member of your party to Krišjānis Kariņš... So, when he comes and in a solemn atmosphere will tell us all your coalition stories about how you have improved taxpayers' lives - that he then try to get into the three minutes that you have given us... or even less... We do not know what other proposals you are going to make - whether it will be one minute or 30 seconds. But we will continue to talk, and we will use all possible instruments in the parliamentary order circle to bring this truth to the ears of society...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U190	I would remind you that this proposal has been signed by Members Reizniece–Ozola, Valainis, Many, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskis and Bergmanis. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U191	Colleagues, welcome! Reflecting on the debate - it is ironic to listen when... Most of the speakers took part in the elections to the European Parliament and hoped to enter the European Parliament, where the time for the debate is, however, one minute. And if you can't express your opinion in three minutes, which I didn't understand from this debate, because I wasn't in favour of the proposal... Then I would ask you, however, to follow where you are going and then also to debate the proposal. Then all of us will be intelligible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U192	Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U193	I hope you are listening to the debate. I mentioned both the reasoning and the substance of the proposal from the outset. I repeat: the proposal provides for the retention of patent fees as a legal means of payment of taxes, which will eliminate the shadow economy and reduce unemployment, especially in times of crisis. Such a solution would not be at present... on the contrary, it should be implemented rather than eliminated in times of crisis. I call on you to vote in favour of this proposal. And I call on one of the coalition colleagues, at least here in the Saeima sitting, to argue why patent fees need to be eliminated. No such discussion took place within the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. If it had happened, if the reasoning had been given, then there would have been less reason and need to debate here at the Saeima sitting. You did not speak there or here, you simply blindly vote without even understanding the moments.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U194	Colleagues! I call for respect for the proposal and for the debate to be held on 1. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Valaiņa, Dūkes, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskas and Bergmanis. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U195	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We only adopted amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act yesterday, and people's reaction to the Saeima vote is quite negative. This is reflected in both networks and comments on the Internet. I would like to quote one brief sentence from one person: “If, at the moment, a country collects 245 euros from my taxes a month, then it will charge zero after the new tax because I will pay taxes to another country.” It is a normal opinion of a Latvian person about the fact that a wave of emigration awaits us in the future. The coronavirus will end, there will be an opportunity to leave, and we will lose 10,000 professionals, because micro- and patent employees and individual entrepreneurs - they are all people who create a business environment in our country. We do not live from such giants as Uralhim, which is the largest company in Latvia. We will be very sad about our hairdressers, plumbers and repairers. That is why I support proposal 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U196	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U197	Dear colleagues, If the state cannot provide people with the help they need during these difficult times, it is reasonable, at least, not to take away what they are earning. This is the essence of this proposal. And I really regrettably did not hear any counter-argument as to why it would be bad, because it is pure arithmetics. And, as colleagues have pointed out on several occasions, neither coalition Members nor Government representatives consider it necessary to justify their position in some way. And with regard to what Mr. Budrik said. Well, it's not, I'm sorry. In the European Parliament, there is indeed only one minute in some situations, and in many other cases, much more. People have the opportunity to speak, and Members can speak. And there's a completely different system - you have to sign up earlier when someone is going to talk. All this is planned in advance. So if you think that this is useful, Mr Budriķis, then perhaps you should propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure. And if you really have a problem with the opposition, come up with some methods of hobbling the opposition, because you do not want to express yourself, but you do not want to let others speak. I do not think that this is a good parliamentary practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U198	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U199	In the Commission this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U200	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 1. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Colleagues, time to break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U201	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, second, final, reading. Member Mārtiņš Stein, on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U202	Hello! So let's keep going. 2. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Valaiņa, Dūkes, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskas and Bergmanis, which provides for the exclusion of a provision which clarifies what is taxable and, in the present case, royalties. This proposal, proposal 2, is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U203	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Valaiņa, Dūkes, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskas and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! It's not about 19, it's against 43, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U204	3. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis, which provides for the exclusion of Article 3 of the draft law and concerns changes to the patent fee regulation. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U205	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the Member's proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U206	4. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis, which envisages... The proposal relates to changes in the regulation of royalties. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U207	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U208	Colleagues! This is one of the proposals for maintaining the tax regime and payment arrangements for royalties contracting entities. And specifically, this proposal is to restore the meaning that is now enshrined in the law and that the government has proposed to change. The idea is that in the future, the State Revenue Service must assess the economic nature of the transactions when assessing whether or not the copyright agreement is applicable. One of the reasons why the tax burden is currently being increased for royalties payers is the argument that royalties are being used too widely and locally, also in cases where the nature of the work or the duty to be performed is not the work of authors and is not an intellectual work. To a large extent, this, like the micro-enterprises tax regime, is due to the fact that the State Revenue Service has not, in essence, performed the functions provided for in the law. And here, too, you see that there is even a duty and a duty to control whether these contracts are being properly used. If this plague had not been allowed, there would also be no concern and criticism at the moment that royalties agreements are concluded, perhaps also in the wrong place. Unfortunately, on the part of public administration, too, this practice... have been practiced in various projects in order to reduce the tax burden; there have been offers from particularly creative persons to conclude royalties agreements, no other, which would carry higher taxes. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U209	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U210	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U211	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 22, for - 51, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U212	5. - the proposal made by the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis, which relates to the rule that the other income of a natural person liable to tax is added to the payment for intellectual property. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U213	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U214	Colleagues! This is also one of the proposals of the common set of proposals, which provides for maintaining the existing tax arrangements and amounts for beneficiaries of royalties, without any increase, and one of the important reasons is indeed that these changes have not been properly discussed, at least not publicly. Perhaps at what coalition sittings behind closed doors you have had passionate discussions and disputes and you have tried to come to the best solution. Well, it doesn't seem to have succeeded. But one example. For example, in its letter, the Artists' Union of Latvia had also encouraged to consider introducing some progress in applying personal income tax to authors, creative persons, refusing the idea that 25 per cent would be paid to turnover up to 25 thousand and 40 per cent to income above 40 thousand; then it was their offer that 20 per cent - income up to 25 thousand, 28 per cent - income between 22 and 55 thousand, 36.4 per cent - income over 55 thousand. Well, this proposal is practically nowhere... Either, at least within a group of Members, there is no discussion at professional level. Well, obviously... even without taking into account such industry's own supply... However, this is just one example. Overall, colleagues, tax changes are hasty, they will create a lot of uncertainty, they will have difficulties administering these regimes; they will not only make it more difficult for the public administration, but also for the taxpayers themselves, and as a result, you will see a larger shadow economy and even a much lower tax revenue than you are planning, than you would expect from these tax changes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U215	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U216	Dear colleagues, Returning to these tax amendments proposed by the government, or tax reforms... Well, so I realized that on the coalition's side, perhaps there's such a belief that, here, the opposition is having too much debate on these issues and, perhaps, is acting as if it were too extraordinary. However, colleagues, I will remind you that we are in an emergency situation. And we also have a recession. Furthermore, we are in such an exceptional situation that we do not even know what other restrictions will be - whether there will be some kind of complete lockdown, that is, everything will be closed. We do not know when the economy will turn out of it. Again optimisticly says maybe until... okay if by the end of next year. And in this exceptional situation, colleagues, the government that you set up... Although - our government too, of course - offers more than 200 000 people a significant increase in tax burdens! That, colleagues, is absolutely exceptional in itself. I don't know if you even... we can't hear from you any arguments about this. I understood in this way that the coalition Members have, in fact, kept their silence from their government. If you are not ready to speak and defend your government position, then it only means that you are away from it. Some members of the coalition have even openly distanced themselves from the working groups of their government, where they appear to have worked and where they had veto rights. It's a long distance! That's why... In this situation, you will even shorten the times of the debate for us, colleagues...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U217	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U218	Dear colleagues, On this proposal and calling for its support, I would like to call on the courageous colleague of the Saeima, Mr Arvil Asheraden, who heads the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, to come and join this sitting of the Saeima and to explain what has been the discussion of them, of his colleagues, in relation to this proposal, in relation to this draft law. If it is adopted and becomes a law, it will affect a very large number of people whose rights may be declaredly asserted by Mr Asheraden, leading this commission and various speeches in public space as well... at the time of declaration. I very much call on Mr Asheraden to speak on this proposal because Mr Asheraden is one of these 10 so-called brave Members who signed up to the proposal to cut Members' speaking time and who therefore do not want the public to learn about these changes, do not want the public to learn how the opposition tries to correct the coalition's errors in the budget and how the opposition explains the harm that will come if this draft law... the law will come into force - the order in which many taxpayers will have to live. I therefore call, in particular, on Mr Asheraden to join and explain to the public. If he does not want us to tell the truth, let him tell his version of what will happen in society after 1 January with regard to intellectual property. Please, Mr. Asheraden! We are looking forward to you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U219	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U220	Madam President, Colleagues! I would now call on at least three Members of the Youth Unity Group, who are neither in Parliament nor in politics, and who have also responded to the development of a number of sectors, namely Mr Latkovska, Mr Leieniņa and Mr Aseraden, to speak in the debate and to tell us how the new reforms will support the authors, how the interpreters will support the self-employed. And if you're talking about this proposal (may still change... and support this type of proposal), - respond, as it goes with relatively recent amendments by the Saeima to copyright protection... Copyright law. In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science we promised so many good things, telling us how to implement such a law... how such amendments will support the work of people in the sector concerned. Perhaps if you really think five minutes' debate is about spirit and think it is better and more understandable to speak shorter... However, I call on you not only to answer our questions, but also to the questions of people who relatively recently brought up a brick wall at the Saeima House, who asked many questions and continue to do so not only in social networks, but also in the media, where there are still permits to show a different opinion than the government, and to say what really... What will be the consequences of such a law... whether or not it takes effect in the following year, in the following year or later. Mr Latkovsky, Mr Leijonis and Mr Asheraden, you are currently representing the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister is the Head of Government. And at this point in time, Mr Kariņš has to be responsible for those decisions that you are now making to your colleagues in the position with blind votes. They too will have to look in the eyes, perhaps, of a beneficiary of royalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U221	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U222	Dear colleagues, Once again, I call on you to support this proposal from the opposition. If you do not support it, explain why you reject it, justify your position. I repeatedly appeal to Members Janson, Latkovska, Zakatistova, Ples, Leieniņa, Juša, Stein, Možville, Asheraden and Bauman: not to undermine parliamentary democratic values, correct their mistakes, resubmit or return to the times of the parliamentary order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U223	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U224	Hello, colleagues! So far it has usually been the case that all issues concerning intellectual property, including the question of remuneration for the creation of intellectual property, have been the responsibility of the Commission on Education, Culture and Science. To me, to be honest, it is a surprise, but I am probably guilty that I have not studied enough in this draft law to find out how this very serious change has now reached second reading. Indeed, the income from intellectual property and the payment for intellectual property - they are, in my opinion, different things. I very much call on either the people of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) or the people of the ministries, that is, the people of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance, to explain this difference, because I think this is where we risk really voting a rule that will allow interpretation and which will then be fought for a long time. I know how difficult these intellectual property issues have been in the Saeima committees. I believe that this is not an issue that could be decided at all in two readings. And even on this same point, I will be forced to vote against the whole of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U225	Name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U226	Madam President, colleagues. Well, I still call... Just now, at least one Member of the position spoke, who called for a brief speech. I can tell him to listen after that, and then record all of our discussions if something is still missing. And yet - answer the question: how much has the country currently planned revenue from intellectual property fees? How big are they going to be? And will there be anything to collect if you don't give extra... normal, adequate funding - in line with current legislation - for higher education, science and also for educators? How much fee you plan to collect if nothing... because perhaps there will be no one from whom? That point should then be deleted - exactly as the proposal provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U227	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U228	Colleagues! I call once again on you, my fellow Members, to understand that this change in taxation will affect you to a wide range of users of this regime. If the Ministry of Culture is still trying to offer a short-term support measure to creative persons and representatives of the media industry, then all other users of copyright agreements remain behind the board. And that is also not sufficiently reflected, in my opinion, by the Ministry of Finance. I also followed the Twitter of the Ministry of Finance, where innovation is always being held, the budget for next year is being discussed, emphasising the good things, and that is right, but at least right now, while we are discussing so important draft laws that will affect a wide range of taxpayers, I would like to expect that even one-twin would also be on this subject. But neither the Ministry of Finance does, nor you fellow Members. Well, obviously, the tax strategy itself is a strategy of this kind.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U229	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U230	Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported. And with great respect for this proposal... I would like to appeal once again to Mr Asheraden, who signed the proposal to reduce speaking time for Members. I really wish you that all your books that you are reading were written in half, that is, that the message of this book would break out in the most interesting place and that you could understand what situation you are in - you, especially you! - to now put these people against you in this budget in support of this budget. Once again: the budget - it is not, and it must not be, a simple coalition agreement on what will now be divided up. It must be... There should have been dialogue with the public, especially during this difficult period of the community situation. All this should have been discussed with people, not just to agree on it under the table...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U231	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U232	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U233	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! On - 24, against - 58, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U234	6. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis, which encourages the exclusion of specific regulations and is linked to intellectual property regulations. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U235	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U236	Colleagues! I discussed this planned tax change with one businessman a few weeks ago and asked him for his opinion. It was a big businessman and he quite simply said that, yes, he supported, because nothing will change... except that prices will rise. Colleagues! Indeed, this is perhaps the best result that we could expect - that, by increasing all taxes, people will be included in the price and the rest of the consumers will, in turn, be able to buy it and the system will work again. Colleagues! At a time of crisis, it must also be taken into account that people's purchasing power has declined rapidly, and price increases to compensate for tax increases will not be the solution. This has been pointed out in this context, in the context of royalties, as well as by the Latvian Press Publishing Association. In particular, they also point out that by rapidly increasing tax payments to beneficiaries of royalties, they will be forced to raise prices to compensate for this increase, but the problem is that the purchasing power of citizens is low and, of course, the press will also become less accessible, especially for the less prosperous part of society; accordingly, their level of awareness will also fall. Another consideration, of course, is that the authors will have an additional administrative burden after the new tax changes: unlike the relatively simple relationship with the royalties payers, where their accounting officer could resolve all the issues, now he will have to break his own head, to choose from the regimes so that he does not have to pay disproportionate amounts. I call for this proposal to be supported by leaving the royalties regime in its current order.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U237	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U238	Dear colleagues, Well, I'll try again to turn to you, so to say, elementary logic. All right, let's assume that you believe that there is a need for some structural change in the taxation of the same holders of royalties and others - that it is necessary, to say so, to change the rules of the game. Clearly, as a result of these amendments proposed by you... Well, for many people, this will mean that they will have to pay more taxes in this situation. Okay, let's... Well, I'm not even going to talk about whether it's in favour or not... This is, of course, to be seen in every particular situation, but, my fellow Members, it is quite clear to us now... I think this year... Since March... Well, at least since March it is clear that we have in the country, first, second, third and... Perhaps even all the first ten priorities are related to the collective pandemic, to everything that is now happening - to the economic recession caused by the pandemic, to the fact that people in several professions cannot actually work. I hope it is also clear to you that this is now, now, an absolute priority. And now I appeal to you again, I hope, common sense. Don't you think at least at this time... Even by placing it aside, let's say, their structural effectiveness of your changes, their accuracy or how... that change the tax rules of the game, especially in a way that will make people's situation worse, that it is absolutely and... Bye bye? This simply cannot be done in this situation, even without assessing the correctness of such reforms in substance. Do you really not understand that, colleagues?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U239	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U240	Colleagues! I would also probably support this structural reform and the change in the royalties regime... order, if there were no crisis at present and if there were thought about long-term support mechanisms, including... if the Minister of Culture had fought, at least in the medium term, in the budget process, for an increase in funding for national cultural institutions so that this increase, which will have to be paid by authors, could be compensated. This has not been done. It has been done that next year seven million have been put into the design of the concert hall, with very little thought for those working in the sector. And also... Well, I think a moment ago, maybe the Minister will hear this comment and maybe he will be able to answer something, but now I see that he too has already disappeared from the Saeima's debate. This is a unique budgetary process - no Minister or Prime Minister is listening!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U241	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U242	Dear colleagues, In calling for support for this proposal, I would like to join my fellow Members in reminding you once again that, in fact, if we look at the national tax guidelines for 2018-2021, then we do not see that something would have been planned about having been decided by the government in a crisis situation, in an emergency situation... would have been prepared to decide on taxing, because the most important thing proposed by the government, which was highlighted by the government in the budget of the previous year, was precisely to ensure the stability and predictability of the tax system. What the government told us last year was clearly repeated several times: that no tax will be raised, that we do not have to be raised, even though we disagreed with it, because the natural resource tax has been raised and preparations have been made for the minimum wage that we have with this year. But in order to warn the public that, in this crisis situation this year, you will recover from the public, you could say that the most vulnerable part of the business... it may not even appear in dreams, because if we read the budget of the previous year... and what we have heard, then, here to give only months of preparations for people in a crisis situation, so that they can see what you have done to them - that is very evil, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U243	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U244	Dear colleagues, I call once again for this proposal to be supported, because this is not the time for these reforms to the structure of the tax system. I also think, colleagues, that... I just started to understand... My hypothesis is why you are trying so gradually to shorten those times of debate - to close our mouth. Yes, colleagues, we're talking for you... Colleagues, coalition colleagues... because it's obviously what you've done... Someone has convinced you to give all the baskets directly to the government and not to ask any questions about it, absolutely and without any questions. I am now even watching - two members of the coalition write the Delfos... notes that here was created a working group in the Ministry of Finance with Zakaitistov in its main role. And then they write...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U245	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U246	Madam President, Colleagues! Well, I have to say that, when I talk about this proposal, I will also call for support, continuing with the idea that it may not be real what to charge for, because... Have we heard any discussion (and there was no word in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, at least on the part of the Ministry of Finance or Economic Affairs, because part did not participate, at least at the time when I debated proposals for the work of the Commission)... and yet - after hearing a word about patent promotion policy in Latvia? What, then, will you collect if you do not support inventors, inventors, or creative personalities? And I have to say that the position has a face. The heading includes Members with specific names. And at this point, I will mention once again only those three who are members of Karina or the Prime Minister's Party and, in essence, by silence and delaying the opposition, show the government's position - Latkovsky, Lejiņš and Asheradens. Ladies, please answer the questions, because we really want to debate the substance, not call and just call surnames. The position shall have the faces of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U247	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U248	Commission proposal 6 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U249	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Valaiņa, Dūkes, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskas and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 56, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U250	Proposal No 7 comes from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Valaiņa and Kučinska. The proposal provides for an extension of cost items that are excluded from the payers' income and, more specifically, transport costs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U251	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U252	Colleagues, this is a practically fiscally neutral proposal on our part that would promote greater social security and protection for workers, as it would be an additional incentive for employers to conclude collective agreements with workers. And that is the idea: we could extend, together with your support, tax incentives not only for catering but also for transport services, without being subject to personal income tax if such a collective agreement is concluded. The amount would be kept to the present level, as such aid is currently provided by the company... catering services provided by employees - 480 euros per year or an average of 40 euros per month. The operator can also plan better whether it is important to use this discount for food or transport services. Especially in the days of the community, colleagues, when it is not recommended for employees or persons to squander in filled public transport, if the management of the company could provide the employees with transport services covering their costs, it would be another additional incentive to do so. This proposal has been discussed for several years now. We made similar submissions in the draft budget last year and, in fact, it was rejected without arguments at the time. At the moment, however, I hope for your greater responsibility and also support for entrepreneurs. As I said, a fiscally neutral, highly desirable and valid proposal for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U253	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U254	Colleagues! I will also call for support to be given to the proposal made by colleagues, which is very, very correct, given that it does not go beyond the existing limits. And here I would really like to emphasise once again that, first of all, we cannot know, we cannot even plan what will happen after half a year. Is public transport not one of the most dangerous modes of transport at the moment, given the situation of the community? And transport transport is probably very, very important at the moment, especially private transport for people to get to work. If we are talking about including compensation, let us not forget that members of the Saeima also have the opportunity to receive compensation for transport in order to get to work. And these compensations are still being used quite widely by Members of the Saeima, and they are also being used by a number of parliamentary secretaries, as we know, despite the fact that wages will rise for them next year. Therefore, I would also like to call on the Parliamentary Secretary of the VARAM, Arthur Tom Ples, to comment on this proposal, given that Arthur Tom Ples has signed a proposal to reduce the time of the debate, given that Arthur Tom Ples is the Parliamentary Secretary of the VARAM, who is most likely to have information about these compensations, about transport, including parking passes and everything else. I call on Arthur Tom Plēks, who has signed this proposal with his colleagues on reducing the time for debate, to come and explain why this one seems to be...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U255	Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U256	Colleagues! This is a proposal that is also very important for mobility. At present, there is still an extremely high unemployment rate in Latgale, 13 percent in Ludza, in my opinion, even 17 percent. And if you make tax changes as planned in these draft laws, you will leave tens of thousands of Latvians without work. And it will be good if they can find a job somewhere else, not even in their place of residence, then it would be an opportunity for employers to provide transport to collect them, take them back to ensure this mobility. Mrs Viņķele spoke of mobility and its necessity for regional development, when she was Minister for Welfare. It was still in good times. At the moment, unfortunately, we no longer hear any initiatives from the government in this direction at all. We call for such minimal support, however, to motivate companies...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U257	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U258	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U259	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Valaiņa and Kučinska! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 58, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U260	8. there is a Member Pimenova's proposal, which provides for the exclusion of a condition that says that conditional dividends that fulfil the condition are not subject to personal income tax if the corporate tax has already been paid. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U261	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U262	Please two plus one minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U263	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U264	Not enough... Is that so? Thank you. Proposal 8 is logically seen together with my 60th proposal, which will be the story later. But now it's about 8. - I propose that income from capital other than capital gains, namely dividends, be taxed at the same progressive rates as wages. That is the essence of the proposal. The extension of the principle of progressiveity to dividends would then be a significant relief for small firms as it would reduce the tax costs of the employer, while the large companies would have a stronger incentive to invest in their development, including job creation, rather than distributing profits into dividends. The income of the lowest income recipients and the income of the highest income recipients in our country differ 100 times, if not a thousand times, however, the speciality of social inequality in Latvia is a different structure of poor and prosperous income. The middle class, lower income in comparable amounts, consists of salaries and dividends, but the highest income is mainly made up of dividends (including in millions of measurables), so the opt-out from the progressive application of dividends pulls a line for all attempts to reduce inequalities in the country. In particular, in proposal No 8, I propose that dividends be excluded from statutory forms of income which are not subject to personal income tax, and that dividends be recognised as income of citizens and not as income of companies. In order for such recognition to take place, amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act on the elimination of dividends from corporation tax are necessary. And that is the content of my 60th proposal, which I will report on. Meanwhile, I am now calling for support to the 8th proposal on the withdrawal of dividends from forms of income that are not subject to personal income tax. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U265	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U266	Colleagues! We discussed this matter, on which Igor Pimenov has tabled his proposal, in very detailed terms in the summer of 2017, when the tax system was amended. And already at that time, Mr. Pimenova said about this need for progressiveity of dividends, given that dividends can really be used as wages... they are a form of payment for business owners, thus manipulating wage costs and dividends. I think this debate needs to be continued, but again I am not sure that this opening - the second reading in the budget package - is the right place for such a discussion, because it really is... There is a need for a broader discussion, which would also analyse all the risks that may arise, including how this could affect the activity of the stock exchange, which unfortunately is not as high in Latvia as we would like. This is a complex issue, so this time I will abstain from this Igor Pimenova proposal. However, I would call on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to return to this issue in its future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U267	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U268	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U269	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 18, for - 58, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U270	9. is the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers and provides for... The proposal complements the list of non-taxable types of income with the winnings from the “Sport Lottery” flash or the interactive “Sport All”. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U271	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U272	Colleagues! For our part, we support this proposal because it will exempt an important national momentology, which will be organised by Latloto, from tax. For the first time, we asked for such a practice at the moment we started implementing the “Centenary Lottery”, where, you know, part of the revenue received goes to the scholarships of talented high school students. Just what I want to propose - and I also did in the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) - to the Government - should not, however, continue this practice so that an exception to the law is made for each individual lottery. I think it is actually necessary to adopt a general rule. If Latloto is implemented by a national lottery with a social objective such as the “Centenary Lottery”, which will be the “Sport Lottery”, such lotteries are exempted from personal income tax. It would be more appropriate from the point of view of such a legal technique, in my view, that, like laws, it is not good to pass for one person, and in this case, again, for each individual lottery, it is too much to change the law... Common: I call on you, however, to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U273	I closed the debate. Members shall not request a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U274	Proposal No 10 is a editorial clarification of the Legal Office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U276	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is planned to exclude the provision of Article 5 of the draft law, which provides for the addition of Article 9 with paragraph 6.1 of the law. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U277	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U278	Dear colleagues, I ask you to read this amendment to this proposed law carefully at first. Thus, the text reads as follows: “Complete the article [...] in the following way: “... The State Revenue Service shall not issue a decision on the registration of the established scholarship law, but the decision shall be notified by publishing information on the State Revenue Service’s website. The State Revenue Service shall place the information within one working day from the date of adoption of the decision. ...’. Well, colleagues, here... Why was there an objection by the Legal Bureau? The legal office asked: “Why contaminate the law with such detailed information on what the State Revenue Service plans or does not plan to do?” It's pretty amusing that this proposal... The commission was discussing this... was examined shortly after one of the coalition Members (unnamed on behalf of others) had a rhetorical interest in: “Now when will we finally start creating legislation that is concise, short and understandable to people?” And now comes... well, what unfortunately is neither the first nor the second nor the third case... Well, I have to ask - then does the official sometimes just need to work on making the bill even more complicated, trying to record all their plans - with which they are going to get their foot up in the morning and what they are going to do after lunch and then after dinner. Well, my fellow Members, however, call for support to be given to this proposal by the Legal Bureau, not to contaminate the law with this kind of practice, but to do everything in general to create legislation that is, directly, succinct, as short as possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U279	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U280	Yeah, thank you. In general, it should also be noted that the amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax” are linked and, by supporting them in general, we will impose an obligation on taxpayers who have incurred tax debts in the course of the previous reform, to pay them or to deduct from future personal income tax overpayments. It is therefore very important that a large number of people (to be measured up to 43 000 taxpayers) have developed and are already in debt in connection with the introduction of a differentiated progressive tax regime. And the tax... Accordingly, in order to ensure that not overpayments are returned, but to ensure that overpayments can be diverted to debts incurred prior to 2018, it is also possible that several norms of the law are implemented in this draft law. I ask the public to pay attention to this and to know that they will be punished automatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U281	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U282	In the Commission, the 11th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U283	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 28, against - 54, refraining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U284	12. Mr Stepanenko's proposal. Provision is made for supplementing the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Law with a new point. And the proposal complements the regulation of eligible expenditure. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U285	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U286	Dear colleagues, To the eligible expenditure, we have been encouraging, for several years in a row, the inclusion of these eligible expenditure relating to the costs of a large family or a family raising a child with disabilities for the payment of the single house credit, with the exception of the percentage of penalties. It is a very important and very necessary proposal to improve the lives of large-scale families and families that bring up children with disabilities, and of course it must be repeated once again in the light of today's circumstances. And I will not agree with those who have argued to object to this proposal again 12. In the family. In this Saeima, we have not heard any arguments against: here is the Altum programme, which will help large families to get to housing. We are talking about many children's families who are trying to draw existing credits, credit payments, so trying to get their ends together, to pay all their bills. And to include these expenditures in eligible expenditure is very necessary, very important. I will repeat to you that Estonia has similar practices. It applies to absolutely all customers. And in this case, it has also weakened the shadow economy, including, for example, repair costs, which are also in a sense part of the shadow economy in these repair services... Well, it can be. I therefore call on you to support this proposal and help families of large children and families raising children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U287	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U288	Colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that this proposal provides for support to cover the costs of the only real estate, or housing alone. And I also call for this to be supported, especially in view of the fact that the empty-sellers in the UK have not fulfilled either the "3 × 500" proposal or the promise or the promise to introduce real estate tax relief for the sole house. The promise was promised, but the wallet doesn't fall. Everyone still pays the same amount for real estate tax. Still rich owners of large houses are able to record libraries or other buildings in them, thus benefiting from tax relief, and this system is unfair. At least this small form of support could then provide incentives to cover the costs of a large family of children and their housing. Moreover, what I would also like to stress is that Members have not proposed an increase in the rate of eligible expenditure. This means that if these families use eligible expenditure to cover credit interest, they will refuse to apply these eligible expenditure to other necessary expenditure - such as education services, health services - because the total limit of EUR 600 is not changed. I call for this proposal to be supported. At least a little bit to show that you really care about implementing the single housing support programme.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U289	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U290	Dear colleagues, I think... First of all, I very much appreciate the progress made by my colleague, Jūlia Stepanenko, and I appreciate the overall progress of the proposals and thoughts. And I would even talk much more about it, colleagues, about the initiative not to apply at least IN to some extent those interest payments for people's housing. And in several countries (for example, if I remember correctly... Such a regulation also works with certainty in the United States, which aims to promote the purchase of housing among the population. And this, my fellow Members, is like a tradition, you don't even... Tradition, I think, will not be a successful word, but its thinking is from a very long time, because in very ancient times, for example, at that time... At least at that time, the service of officials in relatively high state positions was not accepted by people who had no family and no home because they were thought to be potentially unreliable because they had nothing to lose. That's why it's... both housing and family - it was promoted, because it also saw evidence that a person would be faithful. That is why a colleague here does not even offer it as much as it does in many countries, but it is offered only to large families. It seems strange to me why the government and the coalition rejected such a proposal. Once again, given that there are no solutions for many children's families themselves, it is time that it is particularly painful to see them from the opposition.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U291	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U292	Colleagues! I would also call for support for this proposal. If we look at the reliefs that are in the personal income tax, of course, the total amount is around one billion euros, which is returned to people in the reliefs. I have repeatedly stressed that these incentives should be reviewed. And it has not been that it has never been done at the time of the previous government, its review has taken place, and at least work has been started. The State Audit Office has also mentioned that these types of relief in certain positions... even very criticised them, and in this case I would call on my colleagues to look at these offers, which we are now proposing in Mrs Stepanenko's proposal, which is a very specific form of relief precisely for housing. We know that protection in the case of single housing is practically nothing. Micro-entrepreneurs... everyone will now have to answer with their own wealth in this case. And you didn't support these protective mechanisms, which at least... even partially proposed by the opposition in previous proposals, so I would now call for this proposal to be supported in this time of crisis, which... Definitely, if we look at the statistics of these sick people, nothing is left, and we should be prepared to be really very difficult for the next year, if not even more. Therefore, in the personal income tax, such a form of relief would be very local and should be supported, in particular in these circumstances. Colleagues, I call on you to support this motion by Member Julia Stepanenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U293	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U294	So, society to make you understand. In Latvia, about 27 percent of all households have children... plus minus. And many children's families are about 1.8 percent of all families. We know that in Latvia the population is decreasing, the smallest children are born over a hundred years. And that's the solution is... In fact, Julia Stepanenko’s offer is very tender. What should actually be done? So large families, at least those where there are four children, if, and more, completely exempt from personal income tax, not lighten, but completely exempt from personal income tax, in such a way as to motivate more children to be born. Or another option. As a minimum, large families, I will not talk about wider groups of society, but as a minimum, large families, including those with at least three children, are completely exempt from real estate tax, whether there is one or more housing, in order to motivate our country to have families, so that there are more children in these families and so that children do not carry any additional material burden that the country does not support. This should be the order at the moment when Latvia is actually the most dying country in the world or one of the most forgotten countries in the world and the country in the European Union is absolutely definitely where the least aid is available. And I would allow us to start counting, but there will also be the biggest tax increases next January. So on January 13, we're all going to the streets. The whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U295	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U296	Yeah, thank you. This proposal is a step towards the Nordic countries and their experience in shaping a socially responsible environment for large families, building a sense of stability and security for children and their parents. And it is only a wonder why the Prime Minister's demographic adviser, Mr Debtor, is not doing anything about lobbying children's family interests, but, on the contrary, putting forward proposals that are lobbying excise duties. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U297	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U298	Colleagues! Statistics show that 16.7 percent of large families in Latvia are on the poverty line. And this is one measure that would make it possible to reduce these statistics a little. I am pleased that my colleague Jūlija Stepanenko made such a proposal because what is also obvious is that in this government colleagues from the National Alliance who, in the past, really stood up for large families, for family policy, at the moment rare people can hear public opinion... Well, there's some crackdown from the previous priority that it's still their priority... but we do not see any concrete valuable measures at present to promote demographics and strengthen families. July, thank you for this proposal. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U299	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U300	Thank you, honourable colleagues from the opposition, for your support. I would like to remind you if we are talking about the National Association - 12. In the Saeima, when such a proposal was made for the first time from my side, I was in the Sub-Commission for Demography, and the Head of the Sub-Committee, Mr. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R., was actually very, very positive about this idea, and we even started to work on how this idea could be implemented, perhaps through coalition proposals, but unfortunately we are not hearing from the Centre for Demographic Affairs, any proposals at the moment. I'm really sorry. It may be that we could come from a Member who has signed up to a reduction in speaking time, which does not allow this proposal to be told properly at this point... We are talking about Mr. Janson of the National Association... Mr Janson, maybe you can explain to us what kind of debate has been...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U301	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U302	The public must be told that there will be no support for multi-child families and that this proposal will not be supported, firstly, by Arvil Asheraden of the NEW Unity as Head of the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, who should take care of the education and welfare of children, and secondly, Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš' advisor Imants Producer of the National Union, i.e. the entire National Association, and, of course, all NEW Unity, given that Krišjānis Kariņš is from it and is the Prime Minister of this government. And Krišjānis Kariņš was also responsible for directing such a budget. So, every family of many children, remember these names - Asheraden, Karin, Debtor. Thanks to these gentlemen, you will not have the appropriate support. On January 13, we all go to the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U303	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U304	Colleagues! I had the opportunity to be on a show at the beginning of this week, where... Mr. Debtor and I had to debate this budget together. And it was very clear who was guilty and who had some kind of failure... to which political forces have something to do with a government deficit of 3.9 per cent... it is blamed in everything, but I have a big question – why then “Development/About!” ... THE NEW Unity, well, logically... but the National Union, the UK - why are you voting on these proposals and on such an approach to the budget? At the moment, we are leaders in the European Union with the lowest budget deficits, and other countries in the European Union are building budgets in such a way as to think about how to develop the economy and help its citizens, including large families, for whom this proposal is also about, and, in a sense, it would also promote the economy, because it would also facilitate the purchase of housing, which would clearly be positive.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U305	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U306	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U307	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 45, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U308	13. There is a Member's Slaughter's proposal. This is equal to the previous proposal. There is no support and no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U309	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U310	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Related to the regulation of eligible expenditure, which provides for a threshold of 25 per cent of eligible expenditure for expenditure relating to the payment of intellectual property. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U311	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U312	Colleagues, this proposal really provides for the opt-out of an overly strict restriction on the use of eligible or conditional expenditure by authors, because the government wanted to reduce it by 25 per cent, despite the fact that authors and performers in the creative industries have the specific nature of their activities, for example, the sculptors have to buy very expensive materials to carry out their work of art at all. And for nothing, these 25 and 50 interest rates for the notional cost level were historically incorporated according to the scope of the creative person. But, in addition to this proposal, to exclude the restriction of contingent costs, this is, of course, also a rule which offers to exclude articles that change the arrangements and rates for payment of royalties. This is part of the overall concept. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U313	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U314	Mr. High Minister for Finance! I see you join in and follow this debate. That's what I really say to you personally, thank you very much... one of the rare ministers who has found time to join. You are certainly in the course of what kind of debate is going on these days, and this is also in a way a proposal where we are going against the position of the government on special tax regimes and which is part of the concept that is at the heart of our proposals. And I would call you... I would like to say to you that, unfortunately, during these days, we have not heard any counter-opinion that we are wrong, that the shadow economy could become much larger, that these people could have these opportunities much more difficult in this time of crisis. I would ask you to apply and give you your vision: you have the same possibilities as all the other Members. And let's remember those times when you did it. That's funny, and what's a special budget... Unfortunately... Let us remember the times when Mr Wuzan was the Head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission - he defended all the draft tax reform laws, personally dug in the troop, defended everything. And in this case, you are as abandoned, because the Saeima really has no one to defend this idea, and I would call on you perhaps to take on this responsibility, show the opposition her right place and tell us where we are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U315	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U316	As if I were going to join the New Unity, my colleague Viktors Valainis has just arranged. Here, I think it is a little harsher to talk. We are looking at the state budget of the Republic of Latvia, we are looking at an issue that concerns all citizens of the Republic of Latvia, namely the issue of personal income tax. And in relation to these issues, not to pray, and not to rejoice, that the Saeima sitting is joined by the Minister of Finance, but not by the Prime Minister... But the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U317	Mr Gobzem, please speak on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U318	... should take part and discuss...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U319	On the proposal, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U320	There is this proposal. In the context of this proposal, it is precisely for the reason that the public should understand the views of both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance - why such a proposal is or is not to be supported. What statistics show what other motivation is, how it will improve citizens' lives - these are issues of public interest in the context of this proposal. And in the whole developed, democratic, legal world, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, when considering the budget, justify why there are either positions. In this case, we do not hear it in the Republic of Latvia if. So that we not only have to be happy to join the sitting, but we have to call for a debate on each proposal to be discussed by the drafters or disprovesrs of these proposals. And above all those who will be responsible for the implementation of the budget. And, as we know, the coalition of power and you too, Mrs Inara Mūrniece, will be responsible for implementing the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U321	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U322	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, A little replica in response to Mr. Valaiņš. November 2006, Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, Minister of Finance now... Later, in 2017, but at the time, the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola, the budget review meeting, the summary of the opposition Members, the vision of how the sitting is going (I quote): “I have been so humiliating for two years now and I have understood that whether it is the way we can speak here or not to talk what we want, but the coalition roll today will also accept this budget. Kučinskis has already said, it has already been voted." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Consideration of the budget A representative of the opposition also said: “At present, Members of the Saeima, more than 50 Members of the Saeima, who understand their irresponsibility before the law, are simply voting for what the coalition has proposed.” So easy, Mr. Valains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U323	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U324	Colleagues! I share the view that when we looked at the budget in person, a large proportion of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers took part in the reading of the budget. And we're... They can hear, let's say, this debate in person... And often if we talk about 12. Saeima, I really agree, too, that Mr. Wuzan... we were on the opposite side then, but all the respect... Indeed, Mr Wuzana had done a great deal of work in the management of the Commission on Budgets and Finance (taxes). And even though the amendments that we debated did not satisfy the opposition, it must be said that Mr Wuzan tried to justify the coalition's view and went on the table and defended his views. Similarly, if we are talking about ministers - whatever the views of the ministers, no matter how much we oppose this opinion, ministers came and explained and debated, and spoke against the opposition proposals, arguing what they think is right in this budget. This time we see that somewhere behind the screen is hiding, every time one of the ministers joins, timidly taking a look at what's going on there. At no moment are any of the parliamentary secretaries, any of the ministers coming, entering and not justifying this budget. Why do you hurt people? Who will benefit from it, and how will people continue to escape the destruction in which you drive them? You are so scared that you can't even connect and say, even on the other side of the screen, what really makes you do that.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U325	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U326	I have to answer Mr. Kola. Yes, in 2016, I have also voted in favour of the budget. And now it's the difference. At a time when there was a previous tax reform, we all agreed together, including you, that we did not apply special tax regimes, we improved them, but we did not try to destroy them, as is happening at the moment. And, with regard to the debate, the rhetoric of the opposition, too, in this case, I think, would not change very much, but what is very much lacking is the rhetoric of the coalition, which in the past always... Whatever it may have been. The same Mr. Wucaan, Mr. Reira too, whatever he may say, Mr. Reira has also come up with the most difficult ideas, the ministers have gone up and the most difficult ideas. At present, very difficult decisions are being taken that will affect the lives of tens of thousands of people, but government representatives or Members who stand before them do not. That is the problem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U327	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U328	Yeah, thank you. It is important that we act as parliamentary democracy. And if parliamentary democracy says that the time for debate is reduced at the time of adoption of the budget, it is not more democracy and it is not an opportunity to defend another opinion, the opposite argument. And if Mr Kola referred to the previous situation with the opposition, perhaps it would be correct to refer - how many minutes then allowed the opposition members to speak and how long they were able to present their vision, express their criticisms and also give their position on issues that were specifically acceptable. The budget affects everyone, each, regulates and determines very important and vital issues in certain areas as well, so it is essential to allow the expression and assessment of this, fully and adequately justified to argue or... He also heard counter-arguments. Unfortunately, we're only talking to time really vebinary with... Among the opposition and arguments we hear only from certain colleagues from the position or press reading about the promises that they are going to make and do not do again. I refer to the initiative of the New Conservative Party to reduce pay for ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U329	The proposal in question. We're...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U330	Please support this proposal and evaluate the possibility... also how the time for debate is reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U331	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U332	Yes, colleagues! I will once again call for this proposal to be supported. But to Mr Kola, I would also like to say this: Mr Kola, you were probably among those Members who voted in favour of reducing the time of the debate every time it was proposed. And Mr. Cole certainly remembers 12 very well. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! - no proposal was put forward to reduce the time for the debate, no matter how long it may last. You remember very well the night of the debate, which lasted up to 4.22 in the morning. Some Members slept, some did not sleep, but the debate continued, and the night of the budget went ahead. At no time did anyone think about reducing the time of the debate - at any time! Please remember this when you try to get back to your memory about 12. The Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U333	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U334	Dear colleagues, Mr. Cole, too! You have received your education, at least in part, as I remember, Britain. Now I recommend you look... The British Parliament actually has quite a lot of statistics on what is going on in the times of the debate, including on what is going on when the budget is being discussed. On the length of the budget package, too, statistics have been compiled, if I do not beg, which perhaps even for the 60s or 70s. And you will see that, for example, the four-day examination of the budget in the same Britain is absolutely normal if I remember correctly, perhaps there was only one time when the budget was examined in just three days. You can also look at the same...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U335	Colleagues, I call for a return to the substance of the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U336	Well, Mr Kola did not talk about the proposal either, then I assume that maybe I can respond to him.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U337	Please return to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U338	Colleagues! On the proposal, I again... I call for the position on this proposal to be taken and for you to explain why you reject it. Either it happens that you yourself are so surprised by what comes from your government that you do not have to say what, colleagues. Well, that's exactly how it happens that all this time, so to say, you supported, supported, supported, and then... and then you really don't have anything to say. As I have already said, your colleagues from the New Conservative Party, who writes today on Delfos that (I can't hear) ... There was a coalition in the working group where they... What happens: they were not invited to the Zakaistov Working Group? And then they begin to write with such amazement (A sound defect.) ... Where have you been? You weren't in this working group, colleagues? You did not (A sound defect.) ... See, even (A sound defect.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U339	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U340	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U341	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Valaiņa, Dūkes, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskas and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! - 29, against - 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U342	Proposal 15 comes from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The proposal concerns the regulation of eligible expenditure by setting a threshold of 25 or 50 per cent of eligible expenditure for expenditure relating to the acquisition of intellectual property. The proposal was supported by nature and partly supported by the Commission as part of the inclusion of the 16th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U343	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U344	I'm sorry, colleagues, I didn't. I would really like to thank you for the proposal that seems to be the only one that the group of the STECF has partially supported. We have prepared many proposals, this is the only one that has earned coalition support. I think it's because almost a word on behalf corresponds to the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. It was hard to reject it, but thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U345	I closed the debate. Members shall not ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U346	Yeah, there's going to be another one supported... but this particular... Now there is Proposal No 16... is a proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U348	17. There is a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Provision shall be made for eligible expenditure to be excluded... exclude donations and donations to political organisations, parties from eligible expenditure. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U349	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U350	18. is a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Provision shall be made for supplementing the list of eligible expenditure with expenditure relating to compulsory pre-school education where such expenditure is not fully reimbursed by the municipality. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U351	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U352	Yes, colleagues, this is to a large extent a proposal that relates to the previous one - with 17. ( A sound defect.) ... And the idea is that it would be wise to add to the list of eligible expenditures the parent is forced to spend out of his family budget if it doesn't... they are not available... if there is no possibility to give the child a place in the country... the municipal-paid kindergarten. If the family is forced to send the child to a private garden and pay for it, such expenses could be included in an annual declaration, at least in part, without increasing the total amount of eligible expenditure. And, in turn, at the same time as this proposal, what we are proposing is to exclude the financing of the political organisations currently included in the list of eligible expenditure. If a person is currently donating to political parties or giving them... one of the political parties, then such expenses can still be included in the list of eligible expenditure and receive tax relief. Colleagues, and it is in a situation where the law on state funding for political parties has been in force for the second year. This year alone, political parties will receive four and a half million euros from public funding, including, of course, coalition parties: KPV LV will be 643, KIP - 626, AParisti - 586, National Union - 557 and New Unity - 416 thousand euros per year and every year. In this situation, I believe that the norm on the possibility to receive relief for party donations is not correct and should be excluded by replacing it with a proposal that is socially more responsible, which will help families and their families... the rearing of children. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U353	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U354	Colleagues, I, too, call for support for this proposal. If we look at the table, we cross a little over proposal 17, but still 18 is related to proposal 17, and 18 is really going to give something... just at pre-school level, some little way parents can get more relief from the country. And we also envisaged this source if, in the case of someone asking where we... how it all compensates. That is exactly what political party funding is - it is a compensatory place... At the moment, with the state budget funding in place, it would not be right if we could give people more opportunities to donate to political parties to receive relief. This arrangement, why such a relief has been introduced in the past... It was directly related to the fact that political parties needed to encourage these donations so that they could be attracted. At the moment, political parties are very richly funded from the state budget and perhaps even too rich from the state budget. And in this case, I think this is a very specific place where, as I said earlier, personal income tax relief needs to be reviewed, and this is the section where it would be necessary primarily to replace it with support for pre-school teachers... pre-school pupils should have material support for the acquisition of a technical base from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U355	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U356	Madam President, colleagues. Indeed, this proposal should be supported for a number of reasons, but above all, if you support this proposal, then we should not oblige local authorities to finance functions and tasks in education what the state needs to do. We have had, as a matter of urgency, a number of decisions taken by the majority of the Saeima on less honoured state statements of inability to fund education to municipalities what the state has to do, including, at this point in time, lobbying private educational institutions and directly providing public funding for what should not be done. At this point in time, this proposal says that support from the state - fair, transparent and true - could be given to really those people and those citizens who would need it by showing about... not over-reasoned expenditure in education, in particular, knowing that pre-primary and general primary education is a compulsory education and that it is free of charge for us. I therefore call, however, for consideration to be given, if not today, next year, when it comes to the next year's budget or when it comes to the hot debates that are to be held in the summer, but it would seem that such a proposal could be supported. For once again I say that it would to a certain extent discourage unnecessary functions and unnecessary expenditure on municipal budgets, allow them to invest more in infrastructure and direct functions in education, but also show transparent, correct and understandable support for people who need support in the education process of their children. I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U357	Thank you, time for the break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U358	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Debate on proposal 18 Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U359	Colleagues! This proposal is particularly relevant for parents living in Riga, as it is a city where there is still a huge number of children waiting in a row on the garden provided by the municipality. Last year, even the number of children doubled, reaching already 2200... more children waiting in the queue. This was because there were amendments to the hygiene requirements to limit the number of square metres, more precisely, by setting a minimum number of square metres per child. And in these cases, unfortunately, parents are forced to choose private pre-school institutions and pay their own money if they want to combine family life with working life, and this would be one logical idea that the state at least partially compensates for this funding by allowing the money paid in the list of eligible expenditure to be included.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U360	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U361	In the Commission, the 18th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U362	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 45, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U363	19. - Proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Provides for the expression of Article 10, paragraph 1.3... change... The proposal provides for an increase of the total eligible expenditure from EUR 600 to EUR 700... 670. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U364	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U365	Yes, colleagues! This is the proposal to index the amount of eligible expenditure. At present, a limit of EUR 600 has been set for itself and for the closest family members. Since it has already been three years since this threshold was not revised, our proposal is to do so by setting this amount at EUR 670 for the next year. And that sum has formed... whether our proposal is based on an increase in the average wage during this period. Accordingly, it would be logical to allow us to support citizens, taxpayers with a higher rate of eligible expenditure. I would remind you that these publications include expenditure on health, on education, on other socially important services performed by a person for himself or for his or her family members. If it has paid taxes in good faith, then part of those taxes paid may be recovered from the State on production of supporting documents for the eligible expenditure. I call for this proposal to be supported. If we did, I think that maybe it would also encourage you to increase... include in the list of these eligible expenditures important expenditures, such as compensation for pre-school fees, so as not to oblige families to choose between paying for education or covering for health, but to spend a little more on both of them and receiving public support. I call on you to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U366	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U367	Dear colleagues, Eligible expenditure is, in my opinion, one of the most positive ways in which the state communicates with taxpayers. As it really stimulates the payment of taxes, the exit from the shadow economy and, consequently, the individual targeted areas are also in order. If we are talking, for example, about education of interests, which has been the recovery of this eligible expenditure for several years... This opportunity, which has also been duly supported by Members, and we are very pleased about it, has brought some improvements in this area as well, and the quality of service provision has also been arranged. In this case, I support the very logically tabled proposal by my fellow Members, because it is also based precisely on raising the minimum wage and raising the overall price level, because raising the minimum wage brings with you a very large number of issues, such as, for example, a very small example: raising the minimum wage accordingly also increases the educational price of the same interests... will be able to raise those who will remain after the communion if we remember that you forbid them to work. Because raising the minimum wage is included in the services, and so here will be... prices will rise. I therefore call for support to be given to this colleague's proposal and for the volume of eligible expenditure to be increased. I call for support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U368	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U369	In the Commission 19th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U370	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U371	The 20th proposal is from Members Reizniece–Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis and envisages changes... The proposal provides for the maintenance of existing patent fees. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U372	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U373	Yes, colleagues! Once again, the proposal to keep the patent fees and not make the mistake that you have coded in this law. And that is: you will already be denying registration of new patent payers next year, allowing those patent payers who have gained registration this year until the end of the year... By the way, yes, the recommendation for the self-employed: perhaps it is a good opportunity to have much less stability for ourselves to come. Why, though, is it important next year, at least next year, to definitely allow the registration of the patent fee payers? One reason is that a person is unemployed. And now there is a situation and there is a period when companies are forced to reduce their workload or dismiss it altogether. Last night, information was also made available about one large restaurant network, a catering network that had already announced, without waiting for state support, that it would be forced to lay off about 200 employees. These people may receive unemployment benefits for a few months when they remain unemployed, but if they cannot find a job, they are left with no income and no resources at all. The patent fee is then a simple way of using it by the unemployed and often by people who are unemployed, you can register and at least temporarily do some temporary work, for example by providing a crèches or doing some other simple crafts, which could be a good way out in the region for a person who has lost his job for a community or for any other reason. I call for this regime to be maintained. At least now, for a time of crisis, it is an extremely necessary and flexible solution for the unemployed. Please vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U374	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U375	Yeah, thank you. What is better: that people remain unemployed and are forced to claim and receive benefits and are maintained from the state budget or allow people to act in the context of the overall economic situation, the economic downturn and the effects of the Covid-19 crisis? It is therefore important, in my opinion, to maintain the patent-paying regime for the whole of next year and until economic stabilisation. That is why I ask for this proposal to be supported, and that is something to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U376	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U377	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U378	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U379	21 is a proposal from Members Reizniece–Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Related to changes in the regulation of royalties. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U380	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U381	Yes, although the next proposal and the next one are supported and are aimed at restoring royalties to beneficiaries, to creative persons, the threshold for eligible expenditure from 25 per cent to 50 individual types of royalties, we nevertheless call for support for this proposal, because this package, together with the renewal of the threshold for eligible expenditure, excludes those provisions which seek to change royalties to the taxpayer's regime, stressing once again that, especially during the crisis, it is extremely important not only to maintain the patent fee regimes of self-employed and micro-entrepreneurs at a fixed level without increasing the tax burden. Colleagues, this is a time when maybe such shopping fans are happy about the Black Friday because it... it is an opportunity to get some big discounts, then, unfortunately, this year, I think this day will become a Black Friday in a different sense. Today, the Saeima will have voted in favour of most tax changes and related laws, which will significantly increase the burden on small taxpayers, and this will be done not even on the eve of the crisis, but on the epicentre! It's a real Black Friday, colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U382	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U383	And the argument... Yeah, thank you... The argument that this proposal should be expressly supported is also based on the following opinion issued by the Legal Bureau at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax): ‘As regards the assessment of the draft law submitted, in particular as regards the changes to the tax rules for the beneficiaries of royalties (rights and related rights) paid by a non-collective society who have not registered an economic activity, it can be concluded that the legislation contained in the draft law is particularly complex and may require significant efforts by the users of the law, possibly disproportionate to understand their rights deriving from the new regulation.’ Please support this proposal - make it possible... a simpler and more understandable tax regime for those working in this category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U384	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U385	Colleagues, if we are talking about the simplified regime, then here we have a very good quote from Mr Zakatistov, who signed up to us to talk less. In presenting the draft law, he said: “No one can be accused of social contributions. In Latvia there is a very complex coverage of alternative regimes, and as a result of alternative regimes people could receive more monthly, but future social security was sacrificed. The government now offers people the opportunity to be safer than their future, their pensions, and their social security participation." Mr Zakatistova does not come and explain at the moment how this security is intended for those people who have now left a month to arrange their lives and to finally expect any assistance from a country that has banned them from working. We are talking about specifically affected sectors for people who currently have no chance of earning a living. Where is the security promised by Mr Zakatistov, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, who is sitting and hiding at the moment, and no word at all, has said what the budget he has brought to the Saeima is. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U386	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U387	In the Commission, the 21st proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U388	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U389	22. is a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The proposal provides that the rule... provide for the regulation of contingent expenses relating to intellectual property to be determined at 25 or 50 per cent of the income of an economic activity. This proposal is supported by the government in nature and partly supported by the Commission, including it in proposal 23.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U391	23 is a proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U393	24. is a editorial clarification of the Legal Office and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U395	25. is the proposal of the Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis, which provides for the exclusion of Article 8 of the draft law and related to changes in the regulation of patent fees. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U396	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U397	Colleagues! Currently, Latvia has a high unemployment rate, and Latgale, for example, is the territory of Latvia where it is the highest. In Latgale, according to the State Revenue Service Register, 308 patent fee payers are currently operating. These 308 patent payers will be prevented from using this tax regime in a year's time. They're going to complement the lines of the unemployed. There are more than 600 such in Kurzeme, nearly 500 in Vidzeme, more than 400 in Zemgale, more than 1200 in Riga. Colleagues, these are all those people who you will either be forced to re-register in another regime as social benefit seekers or to look for a job in a situation where unemployment is extremely high, and they are unlikely to find a job. I call for support for this proposal, which does not allow the current elimination of patent fees as a tax regime.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U398	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U399	In the Commission, proposal 25 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U400	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! - 30, 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U401	We have already examined half of the whole budget package proposal. Now the 26th proposal, which is from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmana. This is also due to changes in the patent fee regulation. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U402	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U403	27. - Proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. A change in the patent fee regulation is also envisaged. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U404	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U405	Colleagues! The social networks and the major portals show together Mr. Eglitis and Mr. Feldman... a couple's article, where I think there are very good statements or, more rightly, an opinion that the time of the crisis is not the moment when the tax burden on small taxpayers needs to be substantially increased. I call on you to be courageous, colleagues from the UK, especially these two gentlemen! Not only do beautiful articles in the public space write, but also confirm your conviction by voting, for example, on this proposal, which allows you to keep patent fees. This is one of the small tax regimes that will help workers to survive the crisis. Otherwise, this is a double moratorium. Your right hand writes one, left hand always press the button “to”.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U406	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U407	In the Commission, proposal 27 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U408	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! On - 28, against - 56, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U409	28. is the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, which stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers establishes the procedure for registering the reduced patent fee payer, pays the reduced patent fee, as well as in detail the occupations of the field of economic activity for which the reduced patent fee is paid. In the Commission, the 28th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U410	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U411	29. - Member Reizniece–Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis' proposal related to the change in the patent fee regulation. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U412	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! - 29, 60, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U413	The 30th proposal comes from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The proposal provides for a change in the regulation of non-equitable minimum rates of pay for pension beneficiaries. In the Commission, proposal 30 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U414	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U415	Colleagues! The Group of the Greens/Farmers Union has proposed a proposal that was actually supposed to come from colleagues in the UK, because at least to a lesser extent... However, this would be a partial reinstatement of the €500 promise as a non-negotiable minimum. This would, however, only apply to pension beneficiaries, but at least as a first step, would allow us to believe that it is a political force that does not grapple with empty promises before the elections, which does not grapple with empty statements in public space in the form of various writings, while in practice here, in the Saeima, where decisions should be taken at coalition sittings, where we should fight for our political initiatives with coalition partners, defending them and achieving them, the chic only comes together. We propose that we support this proposal. I think it would be fair in this context: we just had a discussion here in the Saeima about the initiative to support those people of retirement age who have lived abroad who have been members of social contributions systems of another country, that at the time when they return to Latvia or come to Latvia... moves to Latvia, would not be forced to pay personal income tax, while the pensioner living in Latvia, who has lived here all the time, worked by supplementing the State Budget Treasury with personal income tax and also with state social insurance contributions, continues to do so by paying personal income tax from his pension. Now, of course, taking into account the inequitable minimum of EUR 300 at present, against these people working in Latvia and for the taxpayers of retirement age, I think it would be not too fair. Then in that case...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U416	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U417	Dear colleagues, I support this proposal and believe that it is presented at the right time and it creates a certain system and really confidence in tax policy, because if you are prepared to raise the minimum wage already in the previous year, then this year the minimum wage will be EUR 500, which may not always be good and will raise prices, but in this case, the minimum wage is at the right time, because the average or minimum wage is attracted to very many, very many sizes. As we know, the average salary is attracted by the salaries of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers. To separate this salary from the average salary or even freeze it... We hear very great objections from the members of the CPV LV, and I would particularly like to highlight in this case Maris Možvillo, the new CPV LV hope, which has come to the Saeima very recently and which is probably... who has also signed a motion for a Member...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U418	Please debate the proposal and not Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U419	I call for this proposal to be supported. And I call on Mrs Možvillo in particular to state why Mr Možvillo does not support such a proposal and why he will support this budget, because he is the new hope of the CPV LV, which has come...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U420	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U421	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U422	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U423	31. is a proposal from the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation, which provides for an unlimited minimum change in the pension beneficiaries, encouraging an unlimited minimum of EUR 6 000 per year. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U424	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U425	Dear colleagues, Our proposal is similar to who was... was discussed at the Saeima. We propose replacing the current provision, which provides for an annual non-taxable minimum amount of EUR 3960 to be replaced by EUR 6 000. In the calculation of an optional minimum, in the calendar month, we get an increase from the existing EUR 330 to EUR 500. The implementation of such a proposal will relieve a large part of pensioners from tax burdens, leave more money in their pocket, which will not be frozen in bank accounts, but will immediately be spent in farmers' markets and shops, create economic levers that will generate demand on the market, motivate producers and local producers. We believe that this measure will be very fair and economically sound. Please support our proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U426	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U427	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U428	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - the Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 26, against - 46, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U429	32. is the proposal from Member Kazinovsky. This implies an unlimited change in the minimum for pension beneficiaries, suggesting an unlimited minimum of EUR 4800 per year. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U430	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U431	(Sound rupture) ... The average pension amount was €382. With the support of such a proposal, we will make sure that pensioners... Most of them would, however, be exempt from personal income tax only by maintaining the payment of this tax on particularly high pensions. It would be fair, fair, and then it would also go hand in hand with the proposal supported by several political forces that a person who has worked abroad and returns to Latvia would not pay personal income tax on pensions at all. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U432	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U433	In the Commission, proposal 32 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U434	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - Member Kazinovsky's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 27, against - 40, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U435	33. is a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. The proposal provides for the exclusion of Article 12 of the draft law and for changes to the patent fee regulation. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U436	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U437	34. There is a proposal from Member Pimenova, which provides for changes in tax rates. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U438	Please call me! We will vote in favour (interim.) ... It's too late. Votes: (Internext.) ... Where before? No, no. You did not apply in writing. To be put to the vote on 34. - Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U439	35, too, is the motion from Member Pimenova. This is linked to the previous article and provides for the introduction of a new article which provides that the annual taxable income is to be taxed at the rates laid down in this Article, applicable according to the number of annual average wages. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U440	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U441	Thank you. Yes (Not heard.) ... reviews that show that in Latvia both the scale of income tax rates and the amount of income for each rate have been set quite chaotic and unjustified, without taking into account the experience of OECD or OECD countries. In the world, however, good practices to ensure the most effective application of rising rates have fallen. The proportion becomes clearer when income at which rates change is expressed as average wages rather than absolute amounts. As of July 2017, when the law made the first steps towards progress, the distribution of income recipients regarding rate-linked income has changed. The number of largest recipients of income has increased. Consequently, the distribution of income recipients according to income has also changed and appeared to the right in the schedule, following the increase in the average wage. Therefore, the economic justification completed three years ago to determine the income at which the rate change takes place has become irrelevant. Audits of such income and rates will be required. Therefore, with my 35th proposal, I propose that rates be set according to the number of annual average wages rather than fixed income levels, in order for progressive tax to follow the dynamics of the income of the population in the country in a flexible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U442	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U443	In the Commission, proposal 35 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U444	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U445	36. There is also a proposal from Member Pimenova, which provides for changes in tax rates and is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U446	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U447	36. In the proposal, honourable Members, I propose that the rates of progressive tax be determined, as well as the rates of income in excess of those that change, in line with the rates and income ratios most commonly applied in the world economy. And these are: First, the average difference between the highest and lowest rates in OECD countries is 24 percentage points, but in Latvia at present only 11.4 percentage points. Secondly, at least nine percentage points of change in the rate is most likely to occur below the average wage. In Latvia, the first change in the rate of three percentage points occurs, reaching about one-and-a-half of the average salary level, but the first significant leap in the rate of 8.4 percentage points is when income exceeds the average salary more than five times. Accordingly, I propose to reduce the personal income tax rate in the Latvian tax system for lower income, but to increase the rate for higher income, while reducing the income levels at which tax rates change. With this measure, the tax burden will be shifted from lower... low-paid taxpayers on more profitable ones. As the overall labour tax burden on small wages decreases, employers' costs will also decrease, the competitiveness of Latvian producers who employ a large number of employees will increase. Reducing costs will motivate entrepreneurs to come out of the shadow economy. And I concluded - in particular, with proposal 36, I proposed to reduce the current rate of 23 per cent to 15 per cent, but the highest rate, which is now 31.4 per cent, to 35 per cent and to apply it to income that exceeds the already four average wage level, or approximately four thousand euro per month, rather than to a carpus wage, or EUR 5200 as...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U448	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U449	In the Commission 36 the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U450	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 17, no one for - 57, no one for - 57. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U451	Proposal No 37 comes from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Kučinska and Valaiņa. There is no support in the Commission. Provision shall be made for a change in the regulatory framework to which the 10 per cent tax rate is applied.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U452	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Kučinska and Valaiņš! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal shall not be put to the vote... the proposal is not supported. M Stein. The 38th proposal consists of Members Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Kučinska and Valaiņa. Provision shall be made for the introduction of five percentage points of the tax rate for a certain income. There is no support in the Commission and, since it is related to the previous one, there is no vote. Neither is there a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U453	39. - Proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Changes to the patent fee regulation are foreseen. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U454	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! - 29, against - 55, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U455	40. - The proposal from Member Bondar. It is planned to supplement Article 14 of the draft law with a new provision: the tax rate to be paid cumulatively to a professional sportsman, who is recognised as such within the meaning of Article 19 of the Sport Law, from the tax year of the total wage income from professional sports is 20 per cent. In the Commission, the 40th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U456	Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - Member Bondar's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U457	Also 41. - Mr Eglitis' proposal is similar to the 40th proposal. It's supported. There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U458	Not put to the vote. The debate can be held. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U459	Colleagues! Three seem to be the same proposals made by Members and groups of Members, which are a good example of how Members need and how they can correct government brothers. In this case, the government had brought a bill, which was intended to increase the tax burden also on professional athletes. I do not know who has pointed out to you on this mistake that several proposals have now been made at the same time in such a correlate. But I really appreciate, and I am also pleased, that, Members, you have shown, at least in this case, that Members are obliged to read the laws and draft laws that are being brought by the government and to evaluate them, and if we see that the government has made proposals that are detrimental to society, then to put forward its proposals for their correction. I'm glad about one of these little mistakes, but I appreciate if you're in all the other cases... You are the legislator, and you have the responsibility for the laws we pass in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U460	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U461	In the Commission, 41 proposals are supported, just as the previous one cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U462	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U463	The 42nd proposal from Members Dzintara and Zakatistova is similar to the previous one. It has been supported and cannot be put to the vote by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U464	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U465	43. is a proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers which clarifies the wording of Article 17 on ‘Salary tax retention and payment and withholding tax on income not related to employment relations’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U466	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 43. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U467	44. is a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Changes in the regulation of public funded pension capital are foreseen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U468	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 44. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U469	45. is the proposal of the Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Article 16 of the draft law is to be excluded. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U470	Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U471	46. is a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Kauges, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Article 20 of the draft law is to be excluded. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U472	Please call me! We will vote for 46. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U473	47th is a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Changes in the arrangements for automatic payment of excess taxes are foreseen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U474	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U475	Dear colleagues, I will call for support to be given to this proposal made by my colleagues in order to promote good relations between taxpayers and the State Revenue Service. As we can see, colleagues are proposing a slight extension of the deadline during which an error in relation to overpayment can be corrected by the taxpayer concerned. I would like to remind you, for example, that in Estonia, if we compare it with Latvia, there is a very convenient system that does not make such mistakes at all, because the Estonian taxpayer has an automatic reporting system, and the taxpayer simply has to note whether he agrees with the report or disagrees with it and what corrections have been made. In this case, of course, there is still a great burden on the taxpayer - to submit all the necessary documents, to draw up the accounts, and I believe that it would indeed be only friendly, especially given the situation of the community, from which we do not know, when we will ever get out, to extend the deadline during which this error can be corrected. This is more than necessary. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U476	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U477	Colleagues, this is indeed a proposal aimed at establishing an equivalent relationship between the State Revenue Service and the taxpayer. Colleagues, it is currently established that the State Revenue Service will refund overpaid taxes within 90 days in case if a person is entitled to them, e.g., eligible expenses... cheques, their attestations. The State Revenue Service evaluates it for three months and makes this refund. Here, in the wording of the law proposed at first reading, it is established that if a person has received tax overpayment, automatically making these payments from the State Revenue Service, there has been a mistake, the person has received more, the person must repay this overpayment to the State Revenue Service within one month. That's not fair. If we want to receive this overpayment from a person within a month, then the State Revenue Service should also receive and be able to make tax refund within 30 days in case such person is due. I call for support for this proposal, which is favourable to taxpayers and provides for a longer deadline if they are invoiced on the national side for the refund of overpaid taxes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U478	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U479	Dear colleagues, This proposal is not as simple as it could be from the first perspective. I call upon you to pay attention to the answer first of all to the question which is then guilty of error? If we are talking here about tax overpayment, colleagues, I want to stress, automatic repayment... This means that we are talking about those cases where, by nature, this error occurred after a mistake in some of the electronic declaration systems of the State Revenue Service. This means that it was not the taxpayer himself who was guilty of the error. Colleagues, I call on you to use your own, so to say... think that if you were in the shoes of this taxpayer... You're getting... suddenly this... You are notified by the State Revenue Service - you have overpaid the tax, here you have automatic reimbursement. And you get some money back, let's assume it would be perhaps a few hundred euros. Well, think about what the first reaction is... what a person will do if he suddenly receives a few hundred euros in his account. Many people will probably see it as a reason to go right away and buy something important that they needed a long time ago, I don't know, a new refrigerator or something like that. And then the SRS tells them that a mistake has been made - please return it all back. Sorry, this refrigerator has already been bought... What about 30 days? Now really put yourself in these people's shoes, colleagues! You don't have to watch it automatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U480	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U481	Thank you. In the package “On Personal Income Tax”... Annotation indicates the problem with which new instruments have been introduced regarding the obligation to automatically refund personal income tax or not to refund overpayments. In the context of the tax reform of 2018 to 9 March 2020, after the information available to the SRS, there are 21.1 thousand taxpayers who form the budget payment - personal income tax (EUR 1.2 million in total) - and who have not submitted the income declarations for 2018. And then it turns out that the instrument proposed by the government and now accepted and approved by the Members of the Saeima will be an instrument that will not help people and make it easier for them to come out of a situation in which they have become hostages after the previous reform that is not too easy to see, but will make it even more difficult and punish them. Last year, Members confirmed the possibility of extending people's tax payments. This year, those people have the last time they pay that tax or not. It happens that now the government and the Saeima urgently adopt legislative norms that will oblige these people to pay taxes in addition to the state budget, and they are hostages. I therefore ask for support for this proposal, which allows, at least, for the period during which people should pay, to be extended by 90 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U482	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U483	Colleagues! I also call on you to support this proposal because, in essence, it provides for a three-fold increase in the time during which the citizen, if it is wrong, could repay this... this repayment term. Well, one example. Right here, in Old Riga, now there is a real example of a cafe on Torņa Street. Idle benefits are available there... and have been granted these soft benefits by the SRS. Of course, it's in some way... but to a minimal extent helped them to overcome the difficult time of spring. At this point, when it is found to be appropriate, despite the fact that we are the least cost-effective... one of the most economical countries in the European Union regarding how to support our entrepreneurs, on its common background, I would like to say that in this case it has been... the situation is that people should be given the opportunity to settle their obligations with the country for a little longer time. This proposal, which is now in the budget framework, seems to me to be too hasty because, quite simply, in my view, it can lead to... Well, let's assume the same quick loans and so on. It's such a quick credit - you don't want it, but it's getting... it is a proposal for a rapid credit lobby. In this case, it would be only normal if people were given time to save their own funds so that they could be returned to the state budget. Otherwise, people will be forced to go to fast credit and thus cover these costs or will be in debt. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U484	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U485	Colleagues! Thank you very much once again for reducing the time for the debate, so easy, so easy to say (I can't hear.) ... their point. But I would like to repeat and emphasise once again, colleagues: if there is a situation in which a person, a taxpayer, has not been guilty of his own fault, but obviously has been wrong either by the State Revenue Service or by the accounting officer in the company where he works... if he receives that tax as if it were a refund, there are many studies that say that what people do when they receive a relatively large amount of money they had not expected - they spend, they spend it right away. So if you based on the assumption that the State Revenue Service is based on the assumption that this money is standing somewhere... cash... stored in the account, then it's wrong. That money is likely to have been spent. Indeed, as a colleague says, a person will be forced to go to fast loans or to another one. This is therefore a very logical proposal. I call for this to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U486	Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U487	Colleagues! To force a person within 30 days - in fact, during the period of receipt of one salary - to refund unduly paid taxes is in fact such a style of fast credit companies. We remember, there was a product for them for one time when they lent the amount and asked for it to be reimbursed in one single payment, knowing clearly that a person, especially with a low income, who receives the minimum wage cannot pay back, for example, EUR 300 in one payment. And if you don't pay this money in one, then you're starting to calculate the penalty again... the payment of late payment or money or capital use fee. Now we will not allow the State Revenue Service to become a cantor of such a fast credit style, we will be open to taxpayers, allowing them to accumulate and then return the money.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U488	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U489	Madam President, Thank you. I call for support for the proposal, to be honest, on account of some contradictions in the existing wording. First, if it's done automatically... automatic repayment, it has been created by an institution as a system, and if the system operates automatically, it is based on an algorithm, including checking who checks whether these people are allowed to receive repayment at all, rather than suddenly showing that after a certain time someone finds that something has been wrong, please repay. If such a mistake is made systemically, then the state must also answer for it and not send it... people who have received automatic reimbursement must be punished. Of course, by supporting the fact that this refund is automatic, and yet... What is it about the system if it cannot be checked immediately? And at this point, if the state says, oh, we made a mistake, pay back... then give people to really this refund, which is not even their fault after the... allow people to do so over a longer period of time. The SRS may, however, have concluded that the payment was correct after some mystical recheck. And what in that case? By this, I would like to say that if some electronic, digital or other systems are to be created, then they must have the lowest possible risk of error. If such a mistake is already provided for in the law, give at least a longer period for SRS officials to be able to check twice and three times and only then claim reimbursement if a real error has been in the system and not humane. You can punish people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U490	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U491	Colleagues! Remember, there have been cases when the State Revenue Service demands something, the citizens are dissatisfied, and then we hear the communication of the State Revenue Service - but the law requires us to do so. In this case, the law requires them to approach them within 30 days. I would ask you to reflect on the already clearly imprecise position of the law and change it for 90 days, thus giving the State Revenue Service the right to treat our own countrymen more diligently, who may not be in such a situation due to their error that the State Revenue Service requires them to return one or the other overpayment. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for this proposal, and let us think about our Latvian businessmen who are paying taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U492	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U493	I once again explained that these debts were created for people before 2018. The State Revenue Service, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, has now incorporated into this draft law both the possibility to return the overpaid persons' income tax refund... not pay if it is found that there has been a tax debt for previous periods, as well as imposing penalties and penalty payments for those people who will receive overpayment of personal income tax in 2019 or 2020, respectively, without covering it with the corresponding... and reflective of the previously established tax debt or, more rightly, of the premium in taxes, which arose not because of human guilt, but because of the new system introduced.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U494	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U495	In the Commission, the 47th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U496	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 47. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! About - 30, against - 52, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U497	48. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U498	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U499	49. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U500	Please call me! We will vote for 49. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 51, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U501	50. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to clarify the numbering of the transitional provisions. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U502	Please call me! Let's vote for 50. - The legal office's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U503	51. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Provision shall be made for clarification of the transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U504	Please call me! We will vote for 51. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U505	51. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U506	52! Proposal No 52 Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U507	Yeah, colleagues. Mrs Mūrniece, you are in the best form than the rapporteur, you have noticed an error. But the nature of the proposal, colleagues, is to increase the amount that the draft law provides for compensation of workers' remote labour costs. This initiative comes from business organisations which, of course, it is good to say that they have fought for the possibility of financing this remote work with at least EUR 30. But I understand that there was a wide-ranging discussion about what the amount should be and what the reference order should be. Unfortunately, the amount offered by the government is extremely small - EUR 30. And it is also foreseen that if a person works in more than one place, this amount is divided proportionally between employers. Imagine what administrative burden you are creating - both to give your employee cheques to all sides, trying to calculate how long an employer has been using either the Internet or the cost of electricity, and also to account for all of this for employers' accountants. Well, if there were still a little bit of money, then it could be understood, but EUR 30 still to be shared - well, I think it's not even funny anymore. EUR 60 is the sum requested from business organisations on their part. And I also call for support, especially in view of the fact that we have spent all the last months and weeks on the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission by means of re-allocations so that the public administration can provide IT solutions, computer equipment for the prevention of the effects of the community's remote work. Let us also support the private sector, please, with a small, proportionate amount and hopefully also simpler administration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U508	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U509	Yes, colleagues believe that EUR 30, which is currently earmarked for eligible expenditure in the draft law, is far too little. We offer EUR 60 and we call on you, colleagues, to support it. Now that there is a remote job, I think more and more people are using this regime. It has already been said earlier in today's debate that one... one thing is when a man... It may be possible to use public transport or some other cheaper options to move to work. At the moment, you will agree, there is no situation where they would be the same safest ways of travel. So people would also use their private cars or whatever... But yet its costs could rise... in this case those on the employee's side. It would be very normal for the government (and the Saeima would accept it) to increase this eligible expenditure from EUR 30 to EUR 60. There is no significant fiscal impact here, but employees could at least appreciate this step very, very highly. Colleagues, I therefore call for support for the proposal put forward by these Members and for a step towards opposition at least on a point, and for this vision to be agreed. If not, please explain how it could be, perhaps explain with your example... with respect to... Look at how many Members receive compensation for the use of transport, look at their example before you decide on others.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U510	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U511	Ladies and gentlemen, I will also call for my fellow Members' proposal to be supported because, in fact, this government proposal is very good, but what colleagues are offering is really... increases their volume to something, a little more tangible, because 30 euros in this case, given the increase in the minimum wage, is indeed a rather small amount. Given that we are almost every week called... Latvian society as a whole is invited from the government as far as possible... as far as possible try to work for all who can, remotely... So the fact that we are working at a distance helps, in the present situation, yes, we can say that we are helping the Ministry of Health and all those involved to deal with this crisis without overloading even more the SPC, which is currently working and fighting with consequences. Therefore, in order to promote remote work, I think this proposal is very good. To extend the scope of really remote operation. That is why I would ask you to support this proposal, so that we can make a little bit of a half promise against it. I do not think that this really has such a big fiscal effect, so that really, well, the coalition can vote against it. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U512	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U513	I'm sorry, colleagues. I will try to speak to you perhaps more directly. I ask for the previous speech to oppose the opposition and support a proposal from the opposition. I will not do it anymore, I will not ask for opposition. Come against the people of Latvia, because this proposal is in a direct way... It is about Latvia's population, about Latvia's entrepreneurs, about the employees for whom it is very, very much improving... at least to improve working conditions in some way, especially at this time of pandemic, when restrictions are likely to be extended and there will be further restrictions, it will be increasingly difficult to work, it will be... those who will move in some way... These people will only benefit from it. Support the people of Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U514	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U515	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U516	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 52. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U517	53. - An offer from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Koite, Dūklavs and Yalinska. It is also related to the exemption from taxation of staff expenses related to teleworking. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U518	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U519	With great respect for your former colleagues in the Ministry of Finance, this example with 30 euros of taxable expenses to ensure remote work is typical, colleagues, such moments are typical... such an example of smallness, because the discussion between entrepreneurs, the government and the Ministry of Finance has been that if you want a larger amount, then you have to bring each check, each one... and a very detailed reporting system needs to be put in place. If you want simple administration, then you do not have more than 30 euros. Colleagues, this amount - EUR 60 - is not the idea of the opposition. This is the amount offered by business organisations, which would be adequate to cover the work of workers from home and the costs associated with it, at a time when the government has banned several sectors from working on-site and practically every day we hear calls from the Minister for Health, from the SPCC, from inectologists to work away, without, as far as possible, also coming into contact with workplaces, which logically mean that people are paying more money when they do work from home. I am convinced that entrepreneurs would also not use this amount in good faith, and that is not the extent to which we could see huge tax optimisation. Moreover, such a proposal does not even have a negative fiscal impact, because entrepreneurs would simply pay more instead of doing nothing and in any way supporting their employees. I call for this proposal to be supported by listening to business organisations.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U520	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U521	I would like to call for a legal opportunity for entrepreneurs to support their employees, and this proposal, as my colleague has already mentioned, is directly prepared in cooperation with the entrepreneurs themselves, business organisations. It would be normal if we set this rate... The rate proposed by the government is EUR 30, we are offering EUR 60, because it is in line with business organisations and has some kind of justification that entrepreneurs themselves have given. You offer 30 euros. I would then ask: how can you justify the existence or absence of this 30 euro? If we look at the fiscal impact, there is practically no fiscal impact here, and it is only a matter of political will to support or not to support proposals of this kind. So, colleagues, let us give our entrepreneurs, business workers more opportunities, giving them a legal framework in some way, how they can improve their working conditions. Once again and again, I call for support for this type of proposal, which would only have a positive impact on the already complex, complex daily life. If this type of proposal is not supported, please explain what will be both for entrepreneurs and... people in the next year's budget will have the right way in which this will be compensated. I am sorry, I do not see good things right now with regard to the businessman and his staff in the next year's budget. So please explain. Perhaps Mr Gobzem will be able to explain to me what will then be good for next year's budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U522	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U523	Colleagues, I can't say anything good. I just literally received a text message from a listener who is listening to the Saeima sitting. He writes: “When I listen to this proposal, I want to write to you: I am a citizen, but one of them makes sense. I don't have a job anymore, and this month I've paid for an apartment, but next month I don't have anything to pay. For what do I need a government that makes me homeless and my whole family. I'll do everything to make my kids, my daughter good. And then... “ Next is a very aggressive text that I will not read during the Saeima session. But to understand you, people's despair is growing. Today I also received a message from my single mother, who also said in the text: “I am falling down before you and I beg you to help us.” People are desperate. And you and your heart, in the name of the coalition, just cross this all. I am listening to this here all day, to put it more correctly, I am looking at how you don't talk, because I can only listen to the opposition. I have tears in my eyes. You don't. You're paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U524	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U525	In the Commission, proposal 53 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U526	Please, call! Let's vote in favour of 53. - a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmana, Dūke, Dūklavs and Yalinska. Please, let's vote! On - 28, against - 54, refraining - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U527	54. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U529	55. - An offer from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Koite, Dūklavs and Yalinska. Also related to the regulation of remote labour costs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U530	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U531	Yeah, colleagues. Irrespective of the amount (EUR 60 you did not support, we remain at EUR 30 per month as eligible expenditure that would not be subject to personal income tax), there is another opportunity for you to listen to business organisations and to support this opposition proposal, which provides that such support would be provided and that entrepreneurs would be entitled to cover the cost of remote work, regardless of whether the employee has submitted a salary tax book to him or not. The current first-reading regulation requires that a wage bill be submitted. We prepared this proposal, especially in view of the fact that the State Revenue Service has been inviting taxpayers to point out in public campaigns for a relatively long period that the wage tax book has not been submitted to the employer in order to reduce the risk of paying personal income tax at the end of the year due to a differentiated and non-deductible minimum. This has been the case, and now it happens that we are punishing people who may have listened and who have put or removed such a few EDS... On the contrary, I have to say more. In my opinion, the proposal that really comes from business organisations - to allow the employer to provide this compensation to employees, to pay home work costs, regardless of whether the wage book is with them or not. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U532	Let's keep going after the break. So the registration of Members. Registration has taken place. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U533	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax”. Proposal 55: We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. If Mr Valaiņš is not in the debate, I will close the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U534	In the Commission, the 55th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U535	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 55. - the proposal tabled by Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Koite, Dūklavs and Jalinska! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U536	56. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U537	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U538	Yes, colleagues! I'd like to call... I would call for this proposal to be supported, and the essence of the proposal is that we do not agree with the approach currently being proposed by the government with regard to the allocation of eligible expenditure. Imagine the situation: if a person is working part-time, then only about 15 euros, if a quarter is working, then less. I think colleagues, this is the approach... such an approach so small and scrupulously to share these eligible expenditures would not be right, because quite simply then, in the end, it turns out that that man really had nothing to do with himself... It's not going to get anything. I therefore call for support for this approach, which would be... very good for our entrepreneurs... mainly workers who have to adapt to these extremely difficult circumstances. That is why, colleagues, this specific proposal, which we have in the tables... I invite everyone to read it: “56. Delete the third paragraph in point 159 of the transitional provisions in Article 27.’ The third part is: “The amount of the expenses related to the distance work is determined in proportion to the load and the number of working days specified in the contract or order per month, if the work is performed both remotely and at the workplace.” That is why we are calling, colleagues, for you to exclude this provision from the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U539	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U540	In the Commission, 56th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U541	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 56. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! -24, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U542	57. - An offer from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Koite, Dūklavs and Yalinska. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U543	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U544	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! This proposal, too, is similar to the previous one, talking about exactly the same thing. And I would call for this proposal to be supported. We could thus only promote that a worker, an employee, is more socially secure and that the excessive bureaucracy that is currently being offered to the worker and the employer in the draft law is being reduced in some way. This proposal has no significant fiscal impact and I therefore call for support for this proposal, or if you do not support it, perhaps on behalf of the Commission Mr Stein could explain to all of us what the debate was in the committee responsible. As far as my colleagues are concerned, there was no real explanation in the Commission for this administrative proposal, which, by its very nature, has no fiscal impact. It was simply rejected. Therefore, Mr Stein, perhaps this approach could give a little more account of why this proposal was rejected by the Commission. We are very interested in this with our colleagues in the group and we could also vote differently, but in this situation we would like to hear an explanation from the Commission as to why this proposal has not been supported. It is really to reduce bureaucracy. We are talking a lot about cutting red tape, but when we get there, we are seeing the attitude of others. I therefore call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U545	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U546	Dear colleagues, I also call for support for the proposal put forward by colleagues. This is very well in line with the red tape reduction targets set out in this draft budget, so to speak, in fundamentals. I will also call on Mr Stein, who is the rapporteur for this bill and is perhaps prepared to leave everything that has happened in the Commission. Since we cannot demonstrate the video record of the committee sitting in society, there is only an audio record, then it will really be difficult to go into those debates and their arguments. But I would like to say to Mr Valaiņa that, in fact, we will probably not hear any answer from Mr Stein, because Mr Stein is the Member who opposed freedom of expression by signing a proposal to reduce the time for debate, so we can only hope that someone else will respond. Perhaps Mr Zakatistov could finally join and tell us why it was decided to reject this proposal in the Cabinet and why this proposal did not receive the support of a majority in the Commission. Thank you, I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U547	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U548	This budget could at all have been an excellent opportunity for cutting red tape. I also understand, through bureaucracy, the reduction of the public sector. What I should have done... could have been at this point - the number of ministries should have been reduced first, as the KPV LV promised before the elections, and the public sector reduced by 30 per cent, as the JIP promised...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U549	Please address the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U550	But it is about cutting red tape.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U551	On the specific proposal! The proposal is not at all about cutting red tape...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U552	Well, Mrs. Mourniece, you need to read a careful proposal. This proposal is directly related to cutting red tape.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U553	... not about general. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U554	Colleagues, this proposal is directly about cutting red tape. Because what we offer - we offer to turn off that part outside, which provides for it... It would be a normal, uniform approach - that the citizen... the employee indicates his eligible expenses, and the State Revenue Service simply accepts them as they are, rather than trying to ask where he is still working, whether he is in part-time or part-time, and thus reducing these... Even if he is part-time, it does not mean that he cannot spend them 30 euros, colleagues. This is already a story only about it. And this, in my opinion, is directly linked to bureaucracy. That's how... with bureaucratic constraints... we achieve the fact that people are denied the benefits that the legislator offers them. I therefore call for support. And it's about bureaucracy, about what...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U555	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U556	Exactly, colleagues! This proposal has been tabled to cut red tape and to exclude the pointless rule of compensation of EUR 30 which...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U557	Mrs. Ozola, we don't see you. Please turn on the camera. Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola, I say once again, we do not see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U558	I can't do anything, apparently the Internet is starting to limp at the Saeima. I'm sorry there's no picture, I'm gonna try to go on, maybe you can hear me anyway. This proposal provides for the exclusion of a provision...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U559	Mrs. Ozola, we don't see you. Be so kind.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U560	... This little pie, which is EUR 30, is split into parts, depending on how much of your working time a person spends at home and how much at work...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U561	I invite you to work from the Saeima premises, then ask the Saeima Administration for additional support. As far as I know, then the Saeima Administration has asked the Saeima staff to be on duty at least at the door of your political group, you don't let them in there. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U562	In normal circumstances, of course, there would be a technical break, allowing a Member in the Saeima to fix this case instead of interrupting him and giving him the floor to another, Mrs Mūrniece. And my question was about democracy...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U563	Comments on the conduct of the meeting shall not be admissible. Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U564	My talk was about reducing democracy...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U565	The proposal is to give up the administration offered by the Ministry of Finance by putting EUR 30... explain to the employee the employer (Sound interruption) ... how long a person has spent at work, how long - at home. I, my colleagues, would like to inform you that in fact the Ministry of Finance itself has initially provided a calculation and proposed that this limit for eligible expenditure be set at EUR 60, stating that it would normally be EUR 30 per month if working remotely (Sound break.) ... low-value items would be 10, utilities - six, internet and telecommunications subscriptions - seven euros per month... Each of these services... And then, in intense discussions, reducing the administrative burden, cut this amount by half - 30 euros - but with the other one (not to be heard.) ... making its use more difficult. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U566	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U567	Proposal 57 has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U568	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U569	58. - Proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U570	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U571	(Sound rupture) ... President-in-Office and duly-in-Office microphone... and don't dim about it from the Saeima Presidium. It is shown in a video record and will be shown to the whole of Latvia...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U572	No one was going for you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U573	You could see it very well, Mrs. Mourniece! I could see it very well, because I am talking about cutting red tape. You just cut off the microphone and just...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U574	Is there anything to add to this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U575	58. proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U576	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 58. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U577	59. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U578	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U579	60. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U580	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U581	Do you see and hear me? ( Milestones.) Don't you see? ( Independence: “We see... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U582	If you open a computer camera, then we see you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U583	The camera was open. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U584	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U585	We're going on, don't we, President? Dear colleagues, Members. I will continue to speak as long as I have time. I propose that the necessary condition for the taxation of dividends with personal income tax, which I insist on, is the elimination of dividends with corporate income tax. And more specifically, the exclusion of dividends from certain types of income that are not subject to the law will come into effect on the day the amendments on the taxation of dividends with personal income tax enter into force in the Corporate Income Tax Law. And I encourage this provision to be included in the transitional provisions of the Law on Personal Income Tax. I call on you to support Amendment 60! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U586	Thank you. I apologise to Mr Pimenova for telling me that there are technical problems... He's been here for a while. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U587	I, colleagues, would also like to mention these technical problems. We also had these specialists in the group, and technical problems are not only as it had happened to Dana before, but also to us Mrs.Mūrniece does not show again from time to time. So I'd like to ask you to think about how we organise this sitting, because it looks like computers start to overheat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U588	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U589	Yes, Mrs Mourniece, no matter how much I like you, I see you again from time to time. That's a computer system problem, not Mr. Pimenova's computer. And before that, the screen was broken and the sound was bad, although the Internet is in full mode here.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U590	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U591	Dear colleagues, I call for support for the proposal put forward by Mr Pimenova, and I would also like to confirm that indeed the technical problems are probably the reason to declare a technical break. At least this is what I would have proposed to the honourable Head of the sitting. I also support the proposals made previously by my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U592	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, on proposal 60?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U593	Proposal 60 is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U594	There is no vote either, because proposal 8 has not been supported. Colleagues, I will now try to understand what is happening to the system and one minute's technical break. ( Subtotal: How much?) ) One. Technical break: 15 minutes. The request to all Members to leave the system e-Laima and to restart their computers. Technical Interruption until 6.10 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U595	(Sound rupture) ... The Saeima sits. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U596	So we stayed at 61. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. It provides for the addition of a new paragraph that by 1 June 2021 the Cabinet of Ministers shall draw up the provisions referred to in Section 10(1)(2) of the Law. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U597	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U598	Dear colleagues, I would remind you that this proposal is linked to my proposal, and to Karina Sprūde, earlier, on the possibility of including in the eligible expenditure base also eligible expenditure relating to the reimbursement of interest on credit to large families and families raising children with disabilities. Such a rule... the operation of such an article would have required the establishment of the rules of the Cabinet of Ministers according to which these eligible expenditures are calculated and presented. We submitted such a proposal in order to establish that such regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers should be drawn up by 1 June. I am very sorry that this proposal was not supported, but I very much hope, in any case, that in the next budget or in future amendments to the law on personal income tax, we will be able to achieve the support of this proposal, or this proposal, especially given that it is likely that such a proposal will be discussed with the Centre for Demographic Affairs in the near future, with the involvement of an association of large families. Because it is clear that this crisis is also a huge blow to large families, including those large families fighting. We are used to looking at the poor and the poor at the beginning, but there are also people who are struggling at the moment... fight the last forces, the last euro and are on the border, so let's say... on the brink of collapse. I therefore call on you... I understand that you will not be able to support it, because the proposal is not put to the vote, but in any...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U599	Thank you. The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U600	Yes, good evening, honourable colleagues! I would like to remind you that the most rapid-death countries in the world... In addition, this trend continues over a long period of time. I am talking now about Latvia. And what I would like to remind you is that I found statistics that in 2017, households with children account for only 27.3 percent, but only 1.8 percent of the total number of households with children has three or more children... This shall be indicated by data from the Central Statistical Administration. This number of large families cannot in any way lead to an improvement in the demographic situation. And knowing the statistics that 2019... We have a fall. We have more mortality than birth, and the number of children is record, yes, for the last 30 years. This is first and foremost. And how many of these families with three or more children... how much they have taken credit to improve their way of life in some way - not just lifestyle, life at all. They risk, take credit, try something... Give something better and more to your children. And you can't count them into the eligible... the interest on the credit. Well, that's... Well, if you're talking about the Nordic countries... trend, well, sorry, we already... Either we have a way backwards or we're mixing something. This is first and foremost. And what else did I want to mention? Today, you're silent all the time... And I'm so sorry that Mozhville, to whom Linda Liepiņa gave me a mandate... The first proposal he signed was to reduce opposition speeches. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U601	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U602	Yes, colleagues! I would also call for this proposal to be supported. This could be a specific task for the Cabinet of Ministers, especially the Centre for Demographic Affairs. I think that this type of approach from the legislator, with the transitional arrangements for such tasks, is nothing about fiscal impact. This is a simple task that the Cabinet of Ministers should respect and by 1 June 2021 it is necessary to lay down the rules referred to in Section 10(1)(2) of the Law. I call on you fellow Members to support this. There has been previous experience that such proposals are being voted on and, with broad support, indeed the government is also receiving and preparing these draft laws... the rules shall be drawn up and submitted to the Saeima or to the Government, as the case may be. I would call on this colleague's proposal, which has no fiscal impact whatsoever, which has only the nature of the task... As Mrs Stepanenko said, the Centre for Demographic Affairs is the right place to deal with this issue, and at least this centre would have a very specific task from the Saeima to do what. Don't let it do... Well, in that self-flow. Thank you. And I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U603	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U604	One unnamed official of the Ministry of Finance once said that he was not absolutely interested in receiving child benefit, because he already had enough income, so he felt that these benefits should be precisely addressed to the weakest. However, I object, and I will always be very strongly opposed to such an approach, because tax and tax incentives are the language in which the country speaks to its citizens. And that kind of tax relief, or eligible expenditure... including in the eligible expenditure is the language in which the country addresses its citizens, families of large children and families with children with disabilities, saying that I am helping you and I am here; I support you. In this way, I also call on you - if you can - to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U605	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U606	Yes, colleagues! After this speech, I will ask Mrs Mūrniece to put the section of the procedure on, if possible, I will apply. But in the context of these speeches and this proposal, I have to say to you the thing - if we... Our Prime Minister... and in fact it was written in the government declaration that Latvia is a country that wants to approach the Nordic countries... Then I would like to remind you that the Nordic countries are the group of countries where there are actually the greatest social guarantees for society, the largest social support, such almost social democracy in some way, or so specific... but a system where there is huge support in all possible areas. This is about very little support. Today, while looking at all the proposals, including the 61st proposal to the law “On Personal Income Tax”, we are always asking for small, small support for people who are in crisis, who have difficult financial conditions, both because of the state of emergency and because objective business is not possible in Latvia. And all this is rejected. There are two systems in the world. One is a system where there are relatively high taxes and high social guarantees and the other, where there are very low taxes and relatively small social guarantees. Latvia is a special exception, with high, very high taxes and very small social guarantees, in fact no one. This should end and support at last one proposal. And please activate the procedure section!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U607	Please enter the procedure section. Mr Aldis Gobzems, a Member, wishes to speak about the procedure. You have to log in. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U608	Yeah. I'll show you. Colleagues Dana Reizniece-Ozola sent off after a break, so in the system again... She's in the Saeima building, and the system continues to hang. So the question is: do we really need to continue with these problems, can we not simply humanely continue the budget review on Monday at 9.00 a.m. and on Monday, Tuesday? Because I accept that there will be such a problem tonight. The system has been overloaded and we have been working for too long today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U609	Thank you to Member Gobzem. A member of the Saeima's Administration shall be present at the door of the ZZS Group, where that Member also sits. If there are problems, I ask the staff of the Saeima Administration to notify the responsible people working with this system. These reports are not yet available, so we shall continue the debate. We are coming back to the debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U610	Yes, colleagues! There are no technical problems at the moment, and the technical staff is actually also helping and is very supportive in this situation, where the Internet is also limping. Thank them. But on the proposal, colleagues. I also call for support for the proposal to entrust the government with the task of developing a procedure for granting tax relief for expenditure relating to the redemption of interest on loans in the case of a large family purchasing only housing for themselves. There are different ways to motivate tax payments. One is the garden policy, when maximum control is introduced and the State Revenue Service tries to catch each one by hand and force taxes to pay, or the other - incentives, tax incentives. And usually tax incentives for investment in housing are a widespread method. There are countries which, for example, also allow expenditure on repairs that have been invested in housing to be included in the list of eligible expenditure. And we've considered it at the same time. This proposal, which is currently being proposed by colleagues, is to support the purchase of large-scale family housing... It has a neutral fiscal effect. This does not require additional resources. This is a proposal to include them in the existing ceiling for eligible expenditure. And, colleagues, those who used the argument that there is no need for such support because there is a housing support programme - then there must be consistency and the relief of political party donations must be excluded, and no personal income tax relief should be granted, given that there is a state aid programme for political forces for the second year: funding of 4.5 million each year for political parties is granted. I call for support for such proposals, which have been prepared by colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U611	The name to Member Karina Scratch for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U612	Yes, colleagues! I would like to ask where is the National Association? I think that the National Union should be the first to defend this proposal, that it should take the initiative itself, and that this proposal should be aimed at the budget at all. This issue should have been resolved by five... I don't know, 10 years ago. Thank you for having responded at all and producing some ideas. I think you're all stagnating, you're sitting, you're not doing anything. You've defaulted all four... You stay silent for five days, and what? We hope next year we will have 20 million extra MUNs? Today you have eliminated both medium-sized and small businessmen in Latvia, so that then you think that by defending a reduction in VAT on vegetables and fruit... And that's it! The people of Latvia will be sufficient with vegetables and fruits! Why support meat, milk, credit?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, no!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U613	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U614	Reflecting on what Karina Sprūde said, I have to say that this proposal really is to promote our demographics and indeed the National Union should stand up for it. But in real life, this does not happen. You don't really understand - why? Because it could not be that there is only coalition agreement everywhere, which means that Latvian society does not have to defend and Latvian society does not have to make any decision. Then I came to the conclusion as to why this is the case. It's been... Just the usual practice for the last 30 years is that it is now a very unpopular, very unpopular budget - the budget will pass, it will be adopted tonight or on Monday - and then the next one will be on the fuse and the Russians. What's up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U615	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U616	I would also like to say to Mrs Sprūde that, of course, it would be very good if, at least, the National Association were to support this proposal and refer the matter to the Centre for Demographic Affairs, which is chaired by a member of the National Union, Mr Debtor, and in this way could address this issue further. It would be a clear task for the whole Saeima - what the Saeima expects from this Centre for Demographic Affairs. Very normal proposal. Otherwise, and for which I am very suspicious, Mrs Sprūdes, that perhaps the same question will be done without this task by Mr Debtor, in order to gain some political laurels, but the National Union could at least confirm that it will be done so that it is not that the uncertainty at the moment - it will be done, it will not be done. Someone has to say something.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U617	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U618	In the Commission, 61 proposals are not supported, but not put to the vote either, as 12 were not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U619	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U620	Just like 62. - The proposal from Member Slurry. There is no support and no vote in the Commission because proposal 13 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U621	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U622	Yes, colleagues! I understand that this proposal is not a voteable one, but since we still have the opportunity to remind our colleagues of a really very, very long-standing problem, which has been almost agreed since 12. The Saeima... And to Mrs Sprūde, I would like to answer: yes, the Centre for Demographic Affairs should certainly put this issue on the agenda, but unfortunately we have not been hearing for a long time any good initiative with regard to support for large families. Somewhere we have lost all the good ideas, and all the advocates of good ideas in the Centre for Demographic Affairs are still silent. That shouldn't be the case. We will have more proposals today for large families. We really call, honourable colleagues - finally start working at the Centre for Demographic Affairs! If you have something to do with this, please report. Report to the opposition! We will try to support you for our part, but please, colleagues, take into account that this issue has not been resolved. Once again, I would remind you that this proposal does not in any way increase the fiscal impact. This proposal is within the existing limits. If the proposal for an extension of this area had been accepted, then yes, I understand that you could object. There is absolutely no problem here. If we could develop these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers by the middle of the summer, and from 1 July we would start to apply this system... Reminder to you, Mr. Debtor! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U623	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U624	Yes, colleagues! I just want (as says, repetition - mother of knowledge) to remind you that in Latvia, only about a third or even less than a third of all households are families with children, and only 1.8 percent of these families - 1.8 percent of cases! - there are families considered to be large families of three or more children. This is a very small number. We know that Latvia's generation and demographic improvement are only possible in a situation where families have three or more children. If this does not happen, we continue to die and continue to die the fastest in the world. We continue to die the fastest in the world because that is the policy of our country. This proposal, in its 62th bill, "Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax" was one of those that could slightly slow down mortality and help families with children, especially large families. In this context, I do not understand what those two years have been done by Prime Minister Kariņš, the Debtor of the National Association. It is Prime Minister Karina - first Prime Minister Karina! - the responsibility for drawing up the budget, which is responsible for the budget, that nothing has been done at all on demographic issues and that they are totally indifferent. Therefore, dear voters and beloved society, remember it, especially families of many children! You are told that you are taking care of, but remember the surnames Karin and the Debtor in connection with this proposal and when you will not let go of any taxes you pay!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U625	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U626	Yes, colleagues, I must have understood why, at the very beginning, people... Neither, nor human beings, were Members in favour of this proposal. It seems to me that from the very beginning it was necessary to explain at all what the eligible expenditure is, and what it is, at all. It seems to me that half of the Members do not understand at all what it is that expenditure can be about education, about medical services. About education... This means that you pay for your children in the kindergarten... or medical services - you went to the dentist, you paid and took a check. You think - no, I will, however, take that check (in this way we are still fighting the shadow economy) and put it in eligible expenditure. Well, I guess people don't know what that is. July has just said that fiscal policy is not affected in any way. Just this correspondence expands. There, in that list, behind education, medical services, gifts, the next correspondence - credits. And that's it. Interest on loans. That's the point. Thank you, colleagues. I'm calling...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U627	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U628	Yes, my colleagues, I think it is wrong to say that this proposal is not fiscally relevant. The budget is fiscally affected, but in the opposite direction - in a positive direction, because eligible expenditure - is the official expenditure for which taxes have been paid when buying services, paying for the same dentist, just mentioned by Karina Sprūde. So there's money in the budget. Number one. Number two. It has a fiscal impact on the budget for the reason that people simply have more money on their hands. This means that these people can spend more on the territory of the Republic of Latvia, they cannot go anywhere. This is fiscally positive. But I really don't have any words about how I can... I've seen a lot of things in my life, I'm not naive, I'm a cynical person enough, I understand how things happen, but how the Latvian people are treated -- well, it's crazy!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U629	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U630	Good evening, colleagues! Well, I have to agree to the debate. Of course, families with children, especially large families, are a group of society that is not meant enough in the budget. We ourselves are aware that this is one of the budget's weaknesses. We very much hope that these errors will be corrected in the 2022 budget, at least at the moment we have reached an agreement with the Cabinet and a record in the protocol on the commitment to a major reform of the family state allowance. This means a much higher amount of family state benefit. Thus, unlike the unlimited minimum or the allowance for dependants, these are means of directly reaching families, including those with lower incomes. These are particularly beneficial changes, which, on a provisional basis, require 85 million... and about this package of events is currently an agreement between coalition parties... they benefit most directly families with three, four and more children. However, I do not agree that nothing is happening at the moment. There are several examples, but I will only mention one. A significant expansion of the housing programme and the creation of a "Voss" programme for access to housing, which means multi-child families for housing... provide not only State guarantees, but non-repayable grants of up to 12 000 for the purchase of housing, which need not be repaid. And this is just one example. So, I hope, we will be allies and we will achieve good results on this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U631	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U632	Thank you, Mr Dzintara, for this presentation. However, I have a question for you. Both this, 62nd, proposal... You have noted well that in 2022 there could be more support for families with children, large families. Why, at this point in time, we are still seeing other European countries approach to budgeting... including what one of your party leaders, Robert Ziel, said about the budget deficit... Is that so? Why are we putting ourselves at the forefront at the moment, given the budget deficit, in a context where society is in particular in need of assistance, particularly for the most vulnerable, those who are most in need? We put ourselves in such a position that the opposition now... all week, talking about special tax regimes, we'll start right now... We started talking about the support of children and large families. Everything, at least a lot of it could have been done if we hadn't... if our government had not brought the budget with the budget deficit of 3.9 per cent, which is in fact the biggest constraint on the budgetary priorities that we now have. In the past, there has been a need to harmonise, to fight for an increase in the deficit in order to be able to provide one or the other sector. At the moment, its possibilities are much more freer. That is why the question is a little wider for you - why not? Can you really believe that in 2022, with the uncertain future we have, we will be able to fulfill what you have promised us from this e-tribine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U633	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U634	Madam President, Colleagues! Mr Dzintara, please say, have I understood your application correctly in the current debate? You have said that an agreement has been reached in the Cabinet on the allocation of 85 million or a support programme, or otherwise, to increase and organise the support system for children and large families. If it is not in the 2021 budget, perhaps you can help find it in the medium-term budget in this debate, because it would probably reduce the number and duration of the debate on the medium-term budget. Could you answer where it can be found in the medium-term budget, because it will probably not be in the proposals, because everyone would have noticed it. But perhaps the government has already put it in a proper programme, and we will see how and to which ministry or centre this support is being directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U635	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U636	Yes, Mrs Papules literally took me out of my mouth because I wanted to mention the same question. In fact, it is what colleagues who need to understand - the budget is a mirror of politics. That is why, at the same time, we are adopting both a one-year budget and a medium-term budget so that there is no empty promise in the air of what will be in 2022 or in 2023. This should be accurately reflected in the medium-term budget. What we are seeing at the moment is quite the opposite: even if coalition colleagues are trying to pretend that everything has been abolished and there will be no rapid increase in social contributions in the years to come, for example, for self-employed workers of all income, then in the budget, on the contrary, in the medium-term plan, we did not see, at least during the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, any adjustments made and the planned revenue from this measure being reduced. In addition, colleagues, I would also like to remind you that, if the National Alliance were still guardians of demographics, it would come with clear proposals, not only in the election year of 2022, in order to be proud of their constituents, shortly before they go to the electoral caves, but to do so in a consistent manner and on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U637	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U638	Yes, thank you to Mr Dzintara for describing the future that we can see, a really possible future, because this signed agreement is probably just as flexible as the government declaration that we see many good things written, but unfortunately they always fall into the budget, because we are told that the budget is the main document, and it is the main document that is being made without our participation - something is quickly being put in secret. We would, of course, like your allies in this fight, but unfortunately we are not even allowed to set up a sub-committee on demographic matters. That was denied us, as you know, Mr Bondara. We all put forward a proposal - with colleagues from the opposition - but we were denied it. So maybe we can work together to set up a sub-committee on demographic issues at one of the commissions and really continue to fight for this thing...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U639	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U640	Yeah. Hello, colleagues! Thank you, I really listened with interest to Mr. Dzintara's message about those 80 million, so, the family... policies to promote the birth of children, even. Once again, I went through the presentation of the Ministry of Welfare budget. For example, I look at slides, which are the most important public benefits in the welfare sector. Here I must admit that what Mr Dzintara said could only qualify for what concerns the range of beneficiaries for children with disabilities. That is good, of course, at half a million euros. Double allowance for guardians for the maintenance of the child - 2.4 million euros. Then together we have three which, of course, must be supported by the government. Well, then I really look more at plans with interest. Consequently, the change of the family state benefit scheme from 1 January 2022. Indeed, there are plans to increase benefits. I think it is a good opportunity for the coalition to tell us more about whether there are also calculations, how it could be paid and what is the source of funding for it, because for now, at least from the presentation, it... Well, it looks like... without solid justification, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U641	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U642	Madam President, colleagues. In addition to the questions, I wanted to ask whether, in the discussions that are taking place today, I understand already the next budgets and the next year's budget, which is, of course, quite interesting, because it will be the last annual budget adopted by this Saeima, there are also negotiations about the implementation of the National Development Plan, because in each case these amounts and these measures are in line with it. One part of the information can be found there. The question is, of course, about implementation, and then, in fact, Mr Dzintara, your speech shows that this proposal, which we are talking about now, can be supported, because the Cabinet of Ministers should already be clear on June, as it should be clear what regulations the Cabinet of Ministers will be so that adequate funding can be granted for 2022 in accordance with the rules adopted by the government itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U643	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U644	In the Commission, proposal 62 has not been supported and cannot be put to the vote, as proposal 13 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U645	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U646	63. - also the proposal from Member Stepanenko. It provides for the addition of transitional provisions: ‘The amendments to the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the addition of interest on eligible expenses for the use of banking credit services shall enter into force on 1 July 2021.’ This proposal is also linked to proposal 12, which was not supported. Neither has the Commission supported nor voted.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U647	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U648	Yeah, colleagues. Despite the fact that this proposal is not put to the vote, I would like to remind you that if we had agreed on such a procedure, it would enter into force in the middle of the year, then it should not be too slow. But I would like to respond to Mr Dzintara. He said that it is already a positive thing, it is the support of Altum for large families, but I would like to emphasise again. That would not be the right argument against this proposal. Why? Because you are now offering support to families who are still thinking about housing, but let us not forget that there are so many families, many children's families, who have bought a house in credit and are currently struggling, and are trying to pay the credit. This would be good support for the situation that has already existed, because it will not be that all those who have taken the credit and pay it will now give up their homes and move to each other. It won't be! They will have to cope with their debts, so it will be a good support. I will stick to the second proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U649	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U650	Thank you, Madam President. I'm a little confused. I really hoped that the National Association, as it is really a problematic question, would answer questions within the limits of reason, because Mr Dzintara has experienced a politician and can answer something, thinking that these answers really interest a great many people, including many children's families. Please don't catch, at least mys! - questions, as one intellectual from the quiver said there, that if the position is spoken, it is being attacked. No, no! There is indeed a real debate at the moment, because it is really... This is a good news not only for those people who are waiting for such support, but also for Members who are currently, to a certain extent, debating as opposition. You could also say something good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U651	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U652	Yeah, colleagues. Listening to Rive Dzintar... However, I would like to ask Mr Dzintara to apply for a debate and to discuss one such issue. The colleague talks about 2022 and says that there is really not enough demographic interest this year. I have a number of questions in this context. The first of these is that Mr. Dzintari could explain what Mr. Debtor actually does in this regard... directly from the demographic point of view. That's his post - the position of the Prime Minister's adviser. Why not in the budget? One. And the other. I have a silent suspicion that 2022 is not the year of many children's families... one large part is able to wait. I understand that both I and Raivis Dzintars... We live a relatively prosperous life, and we feel that perhaps it's okay - to wait two years, but most large families do not have to eat in a month's time, Mr. Dzintara! There's nothing to eat in a month. If we look at the figures, then about it in 2022... I'm reading that there's 283 thousand just what you're planning in total. Am I wrong? Come on, explain to me why only 2022, if we have a lot of money this year and everything is enough, and everything is so wonderful and you have such a counsellor, so fantastic. Why, in two years, if people are in despair? It is families with children, Mr. Dzintari! From my private home, just as I spoke from my private home, tell it to people who will not have anything to eat in a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U653	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U654	Yeah, colleagues. It was time for the rest of the Members to speak, and I once again look at the bill on the national budget for 2021. Explanatory part, Ministry of Welfare, beginning of page 526, and then continues several pages. Indeed, compliments to the officials of the Ministry of Welfare who have described in great detail both their policy changes and every social budget... The framework budget support programmes are also structured to a high degree of detail. This is very transparent and I am pleased to see the budget a few weeks ago. But I really look again and look at 2022, and I do not see any place to increase these 85 million national family allowances. What can be seen in the area of the protection of children's rights is a national programme for improving the situation of the child and the family - EUR 283 239. Well, that's very far from what Mr. Dzintara said. I would really be happy if you could point out where in the medium-term budget we can see such support for families in 2022. Otherwise, these are empty words.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U655	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U656	Yes, colleagues, I would really call on colleagues in the coalition to perhaps abstain from making such promises, unless these promises are actually recorded in the medium-term budget, because it could actually look a little bit after being misled. I understand that if such an agreement is reached, then, of course, you also have a very great desire to hold the coalition partners in their name, but I think I do not have to tell you that you can happen to all kinds of such partners. Therefore, hoping for a signed paper to provide large - size families and simply for families with children next year with some improvement is a little naive. I hope that it is not easy, so to say, to suffocate the eyes. We would really like to see the direct evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U657	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U658	Yes, Dana Reizniece-Ozola was very careful and looked. I just dropped my eyes, too, or she's not wrong. Indeed, nothing like that in the medium-term budget, Raivi Dzintar, has been written. It's a clear lie about the medium-term budget in 2022... If we are wrong and are not able to read, please indicate a specific place in the medium-term budget, where you at least in 2022 promise what you have just said from the platform. The main emphasis, however, is that there are families who will not be able to live in hunger for two years. They will need to eat in a month's time - December and January... January! Most difficult - January, February... the most difficult months of the year. There's no work right away, you're gonna knock everything down. And you're not helping. Something crazy at all! Well, how can it even talk about you being a demographic? About what?Oh, no, no, You really want the people of Latvia to just disappear! That's what you're doing now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U659	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U660	Yes, colleagues, I will also talk about the medium-term budget, and the fact that something is entered in the medium-term budget does not in itself mean that it will. But if it is recorded, it shows some political will, a promise, an understanding of progress in some direction, and now this government, whatever it has promised, has successfully implemented the Multiannual Budget of Maris Kučinskis with little delay. And all that was said before the elections... Nothing changed in substance. For three years we live according to the budget drawn up by the government of Kučinsky. There is now an opportunity to put a new story, but this new story has more risk. What Mr Dzintara said about what could be in 2022, if it is not even recorded in the multiannual budget, gives rise to some reflection, whether it could really be all because even cases that have been recorded in the multiannual budget, such as support for municipalities, targeted grants - all of them have been cut off. This year - which will be next year - is particularly painful for the municipalities. Therefore, colleagues, cases recorded in the multiannual budget also do not mean anything. They have some weight, but that doesn't mean that they can't cancel it, but if things are promised that are not even recorded... We would like to see some more convincing argument that all this will be. Although you say this, if it is not in the budget, it is hard to believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U661	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U662	In the Commission, 63 proposals are not supported and not put to the vote, as 12 and 13 were not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U663	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U664	64. - The proposal from Member Slurry. Same for the previous one. In the same way, there is no support and no vote in the Commission, because proposals 12 and 13 have not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U665	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U666	Colleagues! Since we have had to withstand your proposals to reduce the time for debate, I will have to continue with this proposal. I really welcome Mr. Debtor's work when he led this sub-committee. I have a proposal to set up a subcommittee on the Social and Labour Commission. There's one free sub-commission. I also call on Mr Dzintara to get involved, because, as we know, Mr Bondara refused us to be rude. In addition to this proposal, I would like to remind you once again that it is not only about the purchase of housing, but also about repairs. So the renovation of the house, which is very important... not only to improve the quality of life for large families, but also to combat the shadow economy. This would be a very good aid, because either, for repair services, appropriate justification documents will of course be required. And they will be submitted to the State Revenue Service. Thus, only by paying taxes could this be done. So I, well... I understand that we cannot support this proposal - it is not a voteable one, but I really hope that the honourable national union has once again remembered the issue that we have been talking about for several years in a row, and maybe it will take this proposal into account. And maybe we will also be able to set up a sub-committee on demographic issues after this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U667	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U668	Yes, a sub-commission on demographics - it would be a good... quite a good thing, but I will draw attention to what Mrs Jūlija Stepanenko said about housing. In general, the purchase of housing is a good thing and contributes, of course, to the development of the market. That is very welcome, and it is good that this programme is there. In a way, I am also aware of the fact that this programme is still being maintained, because there has already been a debate on this programme before, or even a need for it at all, and I think that discussions have not disappeared either. But what Mrs Stepanenko mentions with her proposals is about repairing housing because... whether it is a house or an apartment, then of course, there are energy efficiency funds for insulation of apartments and dwellings, but there are no funds that are for the renovation of indoor apartments. There people have to take credit, and it is the old residential fund that is currently being neglected in our country. In my opinion, this should be given attention from a wide range of points of view and it will not be enough only to support insulation from the funds. There should also be a much broader range of programmes, including support for families with children living in these serial homes, even though they have an indoor environment (not only external). Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to listen to what my colleagues and I are trying to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U669	Thank you. Let's keep going after the break. There's also a record of Members. Registration successfully completed. Interruption until 7.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U670	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. Debate on proposal 64 Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U671	Colleagues, the 64th proposal provides for the following: ‘The amendments to the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the addition of eligible expenses to interest on the use of banking credit services shall enter into force on 1 July 2021.’ This is as a normal proposal. There is a transitional period for families with children, especially many children's families, to prepare for all this madness that awaits Latvia from 1 January next year. But what surprises me most is our former Prime Minister, Maris Kučinskis, who, at this very moment, I think, should climb the hall and teach his inexperienced colleagues who do not really understand that they are carrying out their positive things out of the budget drawn up by the Kučinski Government, the budget for several years, and teach how they should support people. I remember, before the elections, I criticised Mr Kučinska very much. When I met at the Saeima, I realized that it was the person I needed to listen to. And I am surprised that Mr Kučinski did not teach his colleagues in the government who are currently working against society. The same applies to Mr. Bergmanis. Mr Bergmanis, as far as I know, is the father of a large family, and this proposal is about the protection of large families. However, I would also call on these Members to take the floor in relation to the proposal and to defend large-scale families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U672	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U673	Therefore, the 64th proposal is not supported and cannot be put to the vote, because the 12th and 13th proposals have not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U674	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U675	Here's 65. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. It is planned that before 1 July 2021 the Cabinet of Ministers will prepare and submit amendments of the Saeima to the law establishing the annual non-applicable minimum personal income tax in the amount of six thousand euros. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U676	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U677	Dear colleagues, What is missing most in this budget is exactly what new Conservatives have been fighting for for for a year now. I say "as if" because, in fact, what we see is just the headlines of the newspapers. Very much activity was noticed in summer. If we see... then, during the summer, there was a very sharp debate between the New Conservative Party and their partners and there were different ultimates, but, as we can see, this was just because each other needed to achieve this vote on the Riga City Council very much. Then everything is desired. Today, we are also reading Delfos' news of how two colleagues - Mr Eglitis and Mr Feldman - have a llamic budget, with a mark on this budget of three out of five. So... This budget, you think, is... counted but weak. But these colleagues - Mr Eglitis and Mr Feldman - too - are saying that this budget should hardly have led to this change in taxation in view of the difficult situation. But in any case, I do not know what makes them vote in favour of this budget, it is really a very big question for me, because Gatis Eglitis really said in July, in July, that what we are offering is this inexpensive minimum of EUR 500, and it is essential that people can migrate from alternative tax regimes to standard regimes... Gatis Eglitis, who, in the view of the young Conservatives, is a potential future finance minister, and is probably also very much supported by his colleagues. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U678	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U679	Dear colleagues, Now, of course, we have such a little tragedy in every budget... Tradition, forgive me, will always be the "3 × 500" proposal. This time it's one part - once 500. You can, of course, smile about it, but if honest, it is no longer particularly funny about them “3 × 500”. The question, colleagues, is, however, the following... The government or this, I understand, working group led by the CPV, which apparently concluded that social tax should be reduced by one percentage point. This is not the case that this absolutely one percentage point will fall into the employee's pocket. This reduction is also divided into two parts. As half of the worker, i.e. all that will cost the public budget EUR 80 million, only half of it will fall into the employee's pocket. In particular, it will be an increase in the so-called hand income of workers. The remaining half per cent will remain in the employer's pocket. Obviously this was the government's agreement with the employers. And then, colleagues, especially colleagues from the New Conservative Party, the question is: why was this decision made, rather than increasing the non-negotiable minimum, which I understand was one of your famous "3 × 500" promises? As this would probably also be more logical from the point of view of economic heating during the recession.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U680	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U681	Colleagues! This proposal provides for an unlimited minimum per month of EUR 500, equivalent to six thousand per year, which is also in line with the commitments made by the pre-election of the JPN. A few days ago, you voted against our proposal, or the proposal to include every year in the budget management law, a report on the pre-election and performance of the political forces that form the coalition that forms the government, including if any of the promises were not fulfilled. Well, you have rejected this, then there is now a second opportunity and it is possible to support this proposal, which already provides for an account, but actually delivers on one concrete promise that has bought the hearts of the voters and, as a result, a large part of you are sitting here between a hundred Members. I call, at least, on you to vote in favour of this proposal, otherwise it is completely incomprehensible to what you are doing here in the Saeima. You are not fulfilling your promises, and on the contrary, you voted a few days ago in favour of a reduction in the solidarity tax, which means support for the recipients of high wages and not for the recipients of low wages, which would have been guaranteed by an unlimited minimum of EUR 500.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U682	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U683	This proposal concerns the CIP "3 × 500", an exemption of a minimum of EUR 500 which has not been implemented by the CIP. And in fact, this whole budget... We would have spoken very little today if the ruling coalition, including the JCPOA, had fairly invested one billion of the big money in raising the inequitable minimum. This was one of the most important works to be done. And then, in fact, if we had an unlimited minimum of EUR 800, for example, which was objectively possible at the expense of the big money, we could also abolish the micro-enterprises' tax regime in its entirety, without jeopardising people's daily lives, because the unlimited minimum allows us to pay higher wages by paying lower taxes, approaching at least some European average accordingly. That's the number one. The good news in all this context is that, given that the BIP is simply open-minded medals, if, by default and voting also probably against this proposal, which is their pre-election promise, it is absolutely clear that Mr Eglitis will never come from the BIP... There will never be a finance minister, and with a hundred percent conviction, I can say that such a person will not be present in the next Saeima, just as the whole of the UKP group will not be, because the medals have no place in the Saeima. We have not only one Member's liar at the moment, but there is a whole group that is openly lying to the public and does not introduce "3 × 500", which was promised before the elections and was, in fact, the only argument that this party is in Parliament at all. I call for this proposal to be supported - to raise the inequitable minimum to EUR 500. It's not enough, you should...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U684	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U685	Yes, colleagues, when it comes to this proposal... “3 × 500” - well, for this... I am more than sure that this will really be the next time I vote against one of my main pre-election promises. And in this case, I would like to say that it is time to go, and it must be said that this promise... if you had already voted in the budget for 2019, the budget for 2020. Now... To 2021, honestly, it wouldn't have been special... we need political art to really do it if you had serious intentions to do it, because at the moment I see how happy you are... I am delighted that one promise is a minimum wage of EUR 500. But I would like to say that either it would happen to you or without you, it would just happen, because such are the basic laws of the normal economy, it would just happen, and there would be a minimum wage of this 500 euros. The incredible minimum of 500... well, it makes you look pretty pathetic, it makes you behave right now as... I have never seen, to be honest, that during the budget review, a person is twofold, that he is voting in favour of the proposals and then critics himself, that everyone else is bad, except for him, who has pressed this button, and you will now prove your duality by voting against this proposal by the opposition. There is a lack of political will in you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U686	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U687	Dear colleagues, So by continuing the theme, that is, the macro-economic stabilisation, the stimulation policy in fact “one zero one” - ABC. So in this situation it is necessary to either allocate funding exactly where the so-called marginal propensity to consume or borders is highest... those who from each (I now explain, as Madam President is looking at me)... directly to those people who will spend the highest percentage of each euro they receive if, preferably (not to be heard.) ... then they will always be people with a relatively low income. That's why, once again, this tax group took a decision precisely about the reduction of the tax on the soc tax by one percentage point, in fact by half a percentage... half a percent for the employer? It is in this way that increasing your inequitable minimum would have been a much more effective solution to this situation. Why have you not achieved this?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U688	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U689	Dear colleagues, This is already the third 13. The year of the Saeima, and indeed we have only one budget left, the last one. Something, honourable colleagues, Mr Feldman, makes me think that you will never, ever succeed in achieving this uncompromising minimum of EUR 500 and with shame you will simply acknowledge that you have changed this political initiative, perhaps against some other issue, perhaps against amendments to the Education Law, which you have fought so much before the budget and have now been silenced with shame. Perhaps it's something else, but let's be real. What you promised the voters, what... You've been activated before each, I don't know... Before every election... simply you hope that you can continue to deceive people with lies. You will not succeed in reaching this unique minimum of 500 euros in this Saeima, acknowledge it...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U690	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U691	I remember how, before the elections, Feldman and his colleagues from the JCPOA were arguing with colleagues in the Ministry of Finance who had calculated the fiscal impact of a non-deliverable minimum of EUR 500 in every attempt to claim that it is a lie, that there are incorrect calculations and that they will certainly introduce an undeliverable minimum of EUR 500 if they win the elections. The wish has been won, but the promises are and... and calculations have changed. Now it is likely that they would use their argument that it is too expensive and impossible. Lift up your calculations and your tables, which you provided to the Board of Fiscal Discipline before the elections, perhaps it will be possible to find a miraculous way of introducing an inequitable minimum of EUR 500 in the short term. And also, when you think about priorities, it may be worth refusing to build a prison and yet to stand for what you have given the floor to your constituents.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U692	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U693	I think the BIP has forgotten what they are at all... why they have been elected what they have promised. This is one of the most important! - JCIP's promises, and this has not already been fulfilled, colleagues. I draw attention to this: it has not already been done, it should have been done in 2018! It was here with the foam on the lips in a whole row with the UKP members promised, telling them how it would be, how it would work and where it would get money. Even Bordan, when he had become a candidate for Prime Minister for a second, walked around and told him how he would introduce all of this. So, here, there is - you are in the government, you are in the budget, there are no deficit constraints on the state, and even in such circumstances you are doing exactly the opposite - you are eliminating special tax regimes, you are voting for them, then you are waving in the public space and you will now vote against your main pre-election promise, which you will not be making, but they will be other politicians who will implement it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U694	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U695	Now the whole society, all Aunts of Death have to say that “3 × 500” is not, and Bordan and Jurash are responsible for this. These are the two most responsible people why there is no “3 × 500”. The rest are only such performers - both Feldman and Eglytis, and so on. You are wrong, Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, Mrs Stepanenko and Mr Valaiņš! The CIP has not forgotten anything. The question here is not a bad memory. The question here is that with “3 × 500” you cannot earn and you cannot get the brush. There is a prison, a blue button, computer purchases in the education system, there is a family placement in “Your Class” (or what it's called... on that television channel) and so on. That's all. If it were to be earned, “3 × 500” would have long been in place. This is already only a nation, and therefore it is not. And the BCP will never be in parliament again, thank God.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U696	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U697	Good evening, honourable colleagues! We're looking at the budget for five days. When it comes to this particular proposal, this is a controversial proposal, and this undoubtedly contributes to the debate. But I have noticed that there is no dialogue here for the fifth day. Here is just a monologue. In my opinion, this is absolutely unacceptable. In my opinion, the Minister of Finance, as well as the other 12 ministers, must take part in this budget meeting, must speak, must press the button 'apply' and must defend the budget. In this case, I too feel as a hostage, because I have not had the opportunity to listen, to hear, to see the meetings of the Budget and Financial (Financial) Commission. And seeing how five days and... Indeed, by all means, rhetoric, by all means, opposition representatives point to various errors. Some may be exaggerated, but some are, in my opinion, on the matter. And I can't see the answer to the position. I am not in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and I have not been present in these discussions, but I do not understand why the head of the Commission, Mārtiņš Bondars... Marty, you're in the sitting right now, you're in the Saeima room, why don't you explain what happened at that meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Did the rapporteur, Mr. Martin Stein - you've been to that commission, too... You represent a coalition. Explain to me - the person who represents the coalition - why this or that proposal has not been supported. The budget is indeed a mirror of politics. I would like to combine the second time, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U698	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U699	Thank you. As for the fact that this draft law will be examined immediately and, in principle, the last two remain, in my view, also the most important draft laws, it does not seem acceptable to me that, in this situation, we, as a coalition, could support the increase in the remuneration of the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Parliamentary Secretaries. That, in my opinion, is not acceptable. It is in this situation that we must vote and do fully so that this increase simply does not take place, so that all of this is frozen. And I again ask the next two draft laws to join both the Heads of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and the rapporteurs, who are also in the same Committee on Budgets... and tell us why it or another proposal has been rejected, rather than automatically going beyond everything. There is a discussion here, not a monologue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U700	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U701	Good evening, colleagues! I also waited today for someone from the Ministry of Finance to come and comment, but I did not. No, no, no, what I mean, I told you yesterday. But when it comes to an unfeasible minimum, then... It is interesting to listen to Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who introduced the so-called differentiated, non-applicable minimum, some more accusations in this regard, because she still owes people a debt to the state... tens of thousands of people, as I have heard. Another thing is that, of course, because of political jealousy, we have to make a variety of exercises to reach the goal that is to leave more money on the hands of people. And that's why in this budget there is a good thing about extending the differentiation of the differential non-equitable minimum, raising the upper limit from 1200 to 1800 euros, which will actually leave 20 euros more to the average salary next year than this year, even reaching at 1200 euros gross... at gross salary. This means that if someone had about 700-800 euros on hand now, it could reach 32 euros net, on hand, more than this year. And I think it's... it is generally a good success in this budget. Of course, the model shows that it would be more effective to raise the upper limit of the range of differentiation at a lower rate, but also to raise the absolute value of the inequitable minimum, but now, of course, this is the solution found by the Ministry of Finance, which is worth three, but generally it is a good way to leave people more money on hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U702	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U703	Can you please unite the times?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U704	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U705	Thank you. Reflecting on what Mr Kaimiņa said, I would like to say that it is important for the debate also to hear the opinion of the Head of the Subcommittee on Tax Policy, as well as the assessment of her work at the Sub-Committee on Tax Policy, which had discussions, where objections were also received from a number of partners, from non-governmental organisations, from the social partners. And that is quite important, too, to understand why it is precisely the representatives of this political power that do not participate quite actively in the debate and do not justify it, and do not show society the benefits that society and people will derive from feasible tax reforms. There's just a silence... Like a tomb. Where is Mrs. Benhen-Beeken? Where is Mr. Zakatistov? Mr Zakatistova can only state in the press that there is no need to increase salaries for ministers and senior officials, as this will destroy the system. By destroying the possibilities of a simplified charging scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises, is this not a destruction? Does this not undermine the possibility for these categories of people to receive remuneration by eliminating the patent payment regime? And I think it would be only right and correct if those people who managed and managed this reform had also explained those benefits or those minuses they intend or not to correct after some time. And one more question. During the pre-election period, the New Conservative Party also promised people that the first thing they would do would be to simplify personal income tax. The population we've been looking at today... In the tax law package, we see that it is complex and complicated and it is not easy to apply and is not easy to perceive, and it makes people's understanding of the tax system increasingly complex and complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U706	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U707	But, of course, I did not say the most important thing about why we should not in any way support this proposal and, of course, the next one, who will not be able to vote. Proposal 65 must in no way be supported because it is simply pointless. It actually gives the task of doing something next year, by the middle of next year, to submit some draft law that will then come into force at some point in time. This is, of course, a imitation of opposition populists. In this case, it is absolutely clear that, when we talk about the 2022 budget, which we will also, in this foreseeable time frame, be preparing, there we will already be talking about the absolute limit of an inequitable minimum. And that will be a thing that will actually come into force, not something populism that people who have never managed anything in their lives submit here to just talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U708	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U709	Madam President, Well, the last phrase, I guess, would have deserved a reproof because... You, as always, as a true intellectual of the JIP, state that no one other than you and others... I don't understand. But you mentioned in the first speech... the second will be quite painful to quote, I think, all Monday, Tuesday and all... by the session... and until the start of the elections... You have indicated that you have practiced a variety of exercises. Selecting words right, all respect! He's been working to keep people... and then that funny sentence - “on hand something”. You've really trained a lot, because you've naturally eliminated micro-entrepreneurs, and you've destroyed those people who want to create something in this country. So you haven't created a patent-friendly economic environment, you haven't created an environment for young people to protect from youth unemployment, but you've practiced so that, in this case, people, when they understand what happens to their wallets, what happens to their solvency, what happens to their ability to work, will certainly notice it. However, I call on the intellectuals and everyone else who will probably not only give words to other people, including to me, to choose more carefully the words, because this is an entry and it can be very well produced not only in your data or in the programmes you pay or post, it can also be produced for free by other people. Watch yourself, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U710	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Pause) Mr. Zarins, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U711	Do you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U712	Very weak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U713	That's funny, I could hear it all the time. Now how can you hear?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U714	Very bad.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U715	Well, that means when I restarted my computer... Until you left the boot computer, everything worked very well (A sound defect.) ... Or... or now... and how can you hear?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U716	Very weak. I understand that Member Zarins will not talk about this proposal. No, he'll talk.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U717	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U718	Well try, a little better is.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U719	Or now... Do I... Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U720	You can hear...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U721	Can you hear it now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U722	You can hear me, yeah, talk to me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U723	So, listening to this debate, I find it increasingly interesting. AKP, as it really is, when you make your promises on your “3 × 500”, you deliberately lied or you simply did not understand what you were doing... Don't you understand the meaning of your promises? Because what I'm hearing now, what Mr. Feldman says, well, you know, I... It reminds me of one anecdotes from the razonam, where the crazy promised to dig a pool, and they are happy to write back home that they have had the pool and everything is all right... and they say that if they behave well, they will also pour water next year. It's about what you're doing with Latvian society now. You promised it a swimming pool you could swim in. And there are two things in this swimming pool to be able to swim: the pool - the minimum wage, and the other to be able to swim, so that really people can get the benefits they have been promised - there is an inexpensive minimum, because if you raise only the minimum salary, but do not raise the inexpensive minimum, then you will not increase the person's profit, he will not leave more money, on the contrary, someone will simply pay more in taxes. But... As the difference already pays, the difference that is reduced is between the difference between the minimum wage and the non-taxable minimum. And if that's not what you're not... If you raise only the minimum wage, but do not raise the unnecessary minimum, then you have done nothing better, you have simply put a greater burden on entrepreneurs. And then you're telling me it's irresponsible. You yourself were acting irresponsibly now. And now you promise as in that typhoon, that this year we made the pool, or maybe we'll drop the water next year - wait and rejoice! I'd really like to know... Come and tell me, do you really not understand what you are doing, do you just try to lie more and more desperately to save your glory in some way?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U724	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U725	So in the Commission on Proposal 65... This was not supported. And, like for other proposals, this main argument was that the budget is as large as it is, and that funding for all initiatives was not sufficient. And in this particular case, this is a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers. And if we had previously rejected the proposal with a minimum of EUR 4800 in the discussions... for these costs, and that alone would cost 88 million, this specific amount required a much greater fiscal impact, which at present could not be supported by a majority of the Commission, so that this proposal was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U726	Please call me! We will vote for 65. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 30, against - 56, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U727	And closing, 66, the proposal is from Member Slaughter. Identical 65. The Commission is not supported for exactly the same reasons and cannot vote, as 65 has already been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U728	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U729	Now I just wanted to point out a little bit of a bill here to the rapporteur, because this as a delegation in itself sometime next year to present some kind of bill that will enter into force, I do not know when it does not have a fiscal impact. The fiscal impact could theoretically have been discussed by one of those previous proposals among the draft laws, so that this would probably not be the same correct time to talk about the fiscal impact. Of course, I must also agree with the idea that there are in fact no reasons other than its political envy, even though, let us say, this model does not create something better with regard to the differentiated non-applicable minimum. But unfortunately, we will only be able to do this when, apparently, Gatis Eglitis, for example, will be the Minister of Finance, either someone else with an adequate understanding of the possibilities for personal income tax modelling and also of the priorities that should be put forward when carrying out this modelling. So, like... Once again, I can only stress that the most important thing is for people to have more money on their hands. I therefore call on the expensive opposition to support this draft law and, more generally, the budget as a whole, because it ensures that people with this average income will have more money on their hands. Is this the most effective way? No, this is not the most effective way, as I said, three balls out of five are to be awarded, and maybe someone else in the Ministry of Finance is to be laid off, even preferably... But in general, I call for us not to deal with destruction, misleading the public, but to support this budget, because we are now in a situation where we cannot play with the stability of the government. Conservatives understand that. And we're playing on the rules. We invite everyone else to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U730	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U731	Dear colleagues, There is, however, a certain advantage that we are looking at its budget so late. And obviously not all Members are able to hold that tension - some people talk so far that we learn things that... I think it's normal to have some kind of... more under normal circumstances in the sittings of the Saeima we would never know. We learn from my colleague, Mr Feldman, that he openly admits that at least 1 × 500 is total populism. Now we knew it, but it is good that such a knowledge comes from the author of this bill as well. He also admits that giving such a task to the government is completely pointless. Well, since a coalition Member must have some better understanding of whether it is worth giving this government some tasks at all, it is also a rather interesting revelation. We also hear the revelation that, in his view, the Minister of Finance, the current Minister of Finance, is not adequate. Now, of course, the interesting point to be made by a coalition Member. I do not remember in my memory any coalition Members who would allow themselves to speak in this way about their coalition partners, no matter how much they don't like or would empathize with them or agree with them. Yes, this is indeed an unprecedented case. Finally, he allowed the proposer to say that she had not achieved anything in her life. Well, Mr. Feldman, I don't know what you've achieved. You both were elected to the Saeima and Julia was elected several times. I think it is a very good question, Mr Feldman, whether you will be elected again after all of them "3 × 500".
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U732	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U733	Colleagues, I am sorry that I have to say this, but the former candidate for the UKP Minister of Finance, Krišjānis Feldman, is a rude liar. The lie is because it looks like (and tonight we have once again seen that there has been no serious intention at any time to put into practice what was promised to the voters - an inexpensive minimum of EUR 500. This is what he calls populism today, calls for a vote against, dreaded about this proposal, and he or she does not offer anything better than himself or his political power. And it is rude, because instead of discussing proposals to argue why they are not being implemented, he is attacking the authors of the proposal, Mrs Sprūde and Mrs Stepanenko, saying aloud that these are people who have not achieved anything in life. I think you have not achieved much in your life. At least in politics, from what you have promised you have not done as black behind your nail, you have only loudly wandered about how everything around you is unjust. I call for this proposal to be supported or, at least, for the JTPP to be clarified if there is some collusive agreement that sometime there will be an inequitable minimum. We would also like to hear this: one agreement that in 2022 there will probably be more support for families with children, whom we do not see in the medium-term budget... We already learned at such a late hour. You have the opportunity to tell about your attempts - at least the attempts! - to reach the coalition's cooperation partners' support for your promises.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U734	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U735	Thank you. Dear colleagues, As we can see, then the duality really beats a high wave, and what Mr Feldman called an act imitation was the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to draft by 1 July a bill on the inextricable minimum of 500 euro and to submit to the Saeima. It is a promise that has been enshrined in the law, and it would have had greater force than that of Mr. Feldman's current plausibility, which he writes now in Delfos or in feisbuck, or everywhere. But to my opposition colleagues, I would like to thank you very much. And actually, with Mr. Feldman, it's like in that story that to argue with Mr. Feldman it's like to play chess with a doll--he'll cut off the chess board and fly away, telling everyone he's won. That's all. Thank you, colleagues. (Laughter) Some people go astray.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U736	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U737	Colleagues, do you hear me? I just had technical problems just a moment ago.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U738	Hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U739	Yeah, thank you. I would like to say, first of all, before Mr. Feldman talks so convincingly about Dan Reinner-Ozol, how bad her reform was, I would like to remind you that Dan Reinner-Ozola, together with Māra Kučinski, had a two-year discussion with the social partners, had a debate with the coalition partners in the Saeima, and also with the opposition in the Saeima, both Members... And it was not only the responsibility of the Minister, it was also the responsibility of Members... Members have also explained, as Mr Wuzan mentioned earlier as the head of the commission... explained and accepted... in the summer, all tax changes that apply to the following year were accepted. And that's the job they really did. And you, Mr Feldman, are now working with the whole of your group on the same rules, the same rules as you have criticised so much. This is the third budget that you are now voting on and in which you have not made any changes (as they are responsible for their budget) from those that were, by nature, already incorporated during the Reizniece-Ozola period. The multi-annual budgets have all been at the heart of the budgets of Dana Reizniece-Ozola, for which you yourself have voted, and no changes that you have so widely criticised have not been introduced. Moreover, the only changes that you have introduced, which you are so enthusiastic about in all these sittings, are precisely limiting the special tax regimes, extending the various barriers to income inequality. You make life rich better, the poor, worse, and that is your policy. And that is, in fact, the failure of your group to achieve something really useful for people.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U740	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U741	Colleagues! As for Krišjānis Feldman's argument, I immediately come to my mind several things, and the first thing is that, I think that every person can look at his wallet and say an answer - or from the moment the UK and Feldman are in Parliament, the wallet is thicker or thinr. And that will be the answer to how good or bad the UKP has been working for the coalition. With Krišjānis Feldman, Minister of Finance. On the other hand, the insults towards the authors of the proposal must be said... I would like to emphasise, however, that Mr Feldman has entered Parliament, not because of his popularity, but because of (light sand!) Juta Stricky. And just.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U742	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U743	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask... So, for the third time now, I'm asking for a bill... this draft law, please try to refer it back to the Commission. I hope that this request has been recorded and that Mrs Mūrniece has also heard and will take note of it. So I would ask you to vote (before we vote in favour of this draft law) in favour of returning this draft law to the commission. Let us try to fix the error here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U744	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U745	Colleagues, I fully agree with Mr Neiminina, who said that such a budgetary process, especially if the pre-election promises are not met, does not support this proposal, cannot raise salaries for ministers and the Prime Minister and Parliamentary Secretaries. But because, Mr. Neighbour, you are not on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and you will not hear from the rapporteur, I would like to draw attention to this: if you really want to vote against the ministers' salaries and the Prime Minister's salaries and the increase in representation expenses, then there must be a new proposal. Because you have already voted in favour of the increase at first reading and no further proposal has been included in the budget package that would allow you to depart from this vote. The only proposal is on the President's salary, which will be able to vote on. But if you want to stop the increase in wages for the government, a new proposal must be made.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U746	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U747	I just want to repeat that, accordingly, this time, it was not a "3 × 500" that had to be introduced, but an unlimited minimum this year was to be raised to EUR 800, which could not be done by rail, and which was not yet there, but by investing billion in raising the uncircumcised minimum. It was possible to do this. This would help both employers and employees to have real support rather than some fiction. It is said that people are in real despair before Christmas in 2020. As they will live in January, February, we do not know at all. Many of the money had to be invested at an unrelenting minimum. It is in this proposal that... This is the most important proposal, in my opinion, in the budget as a whole... the most important thing you've ever had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U748	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U749	I would like to say, for my part, a real thanks also to Mr Kaimiņš for his reflections, and I really believe that they were open reflections. Because he has once been in opposition, he has an understanding of how he used to be. And you certainly see how it is now. But what you are calling for and what Mr. both the UK and Mr. Neighbouring are moving towards freezing ministerial wages... Of course, that's what we should've done... When was it, Monday? Sometime when it could have been done. And the opposition also called for it to be done. At present, this is technically difficult to do. However, I would like to say that, after all that has been voted on in this budget... In my opinion, if you want to play populism on it, it will be hard enough because ministers will also receive salaries in excess of three, four, five thousand. This will not change what you did to small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U750	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U751	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. Mr Feldman, now this is proof of the debate that... Maybe what you said once... We have a number of quotes in the discussion of the budget package, and they have not only been recorded by those who have ever worked elsewhere and achieved something. In your case... You have indicated that you are holders of the promises of the government of this coalition and together the holders. Then why did you call a new finance minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U752	I closed the debate. On behalf of the committee responsible... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U753	Therefore, proposal 66 is the same as proposal 65 and is not a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U754	The proposal is not put to the vote. We have examined all the proposals. Member Stepanenko has called for this draft law to be returned to the Commission. Colleagues, pay attention! We will vote in favour of returning the draft law to the commission responsible. Please open a section on the procedure. Can we vote? Let's go. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission by... transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 56, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Member Mārtiņš Stein, on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U755	So the draft law has been examined, all the proposals have been examined. I call on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” to be supported at second, final, reading. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U756	Please open a section on the procedure. Member Evija Papule wants to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U757	Thank you. Madam President, I just want to pay attention. I didn't need more time, but the system showed that I was speaking for one minute. But I was speaking for the first time, and I had to be two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U758	Thank you. I ask our IT department to take this into account. Colleagues! We will be voting on the draft law at second, final, reading. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 57, against - 32, abstaining. The law is passed. Colleagues! What Member Evia Papule said about it is not the fault of the system. In this case, there has been a human factor, but... I understand that the time for the debate has also been sufficient for you. Thank you. Go on. Draft Act ‘Amendments to vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U759	Good evening, colleagues! Dear President, Honourable Members! 12 proposals have been submitted to the draft law ‘Amendments to vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax’. 1. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska and Bergmanis. That's zero... it is, not zero, but... up to 500 cubic centimetres... provides that motor cycles, tricycles and quadricycles with engine capacity between zero and 500 cubic centimetres registered before 1 January 2005... that it is not the tax of EUR 18, but only those with an engine capacity of between 126 and 500 cubic centimetres. So, if from 126 to 500 cubic centimetres, 18 euros. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U760	We started the debate with Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U761	Yes, colleagues! The nature of the proposal is as follows: if the engine volume is up to 126 cubic centimetres, the tax would be zero; if it is between 126 and 500 cubic centimetres - 18 euros; this is the lowest one offered by the Ministry of Transport... Regulation (EU) No 232/2014 of Colleagues, this is part of the broader concept of the offer that we have prepared and submitted to you... assessment of your colleagues based on the proposals prepared by the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia, Association of Latvian Insurers, Association of Leasing Employers of Latvia and Association of Latvijas Auto. Their essence is in fact to make tax regulation fairer and more environmentally friendly, with special support for low-emission vehicles. Colleagues! Taking into account the public raised embellishment on the proposed changes to the first registration tax of the Ministry of Transport and subsequent withdrawal of all of it, the budget package... However, this law includes a number of other changes in vehicle operating tax rates, in fact moving from the so-called NEDEK to the VLTT measurement system from the beginning of next year. We can see that the Ministry of Transport has incorporated... 17.3 per cent... the rise in the annual tax... the rise in vehicle operating tax. And in an annotation... I mentioned once, emphasising in particular that no objections were received from members of the public... a particularly high increase is aimed specifically at the low-emission segment of the car. And our package of proposals provides for this mistake to be corrected. Let me give you more detail when we talk about the next proposals, because the speaking time is now over.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U762	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U763	Colleagues! From the initial offer made by the Ministry of Transport... prepared for consideration in this budget under great pressure from the public... It was a strange act - the Minister did not support the party itself. This often does not happen, but this was the case when it happened and, in a way, resulted in a known barrack that was introduced in this draft law. This is what my colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has already mentioned. The specific proposal is very simple. So, if there were between 126 and 500 cubic centimeters, it would be 18 euros. Up to 125 cubic centimeters - these are still driving vehicles that can be driven on category B driving licences, these are motorcycles and tricycles... and which do not require special rights. And this proposal would help to make more such vehicles appear on the streets. Of course, these concrete proposals, as my fellow Member has already said, have been prepared together with a number of organisations that are really professional organisations, and these proposals could eliminate the possible bardaque that Linkaita is precisely because of this unthinking approach and the very rapid nature of this tax... as a result of changes... Let's just put this in order, let's say, according to how it is seen in a whole range of sectors working on these issues. And I hope... I wish the success of the Latvian basketball team in the fight against Greece. At the moment in command... It's a quarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U764	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U765	Colleagues, let us remember how this draft law was submitted from the Ministry of Transport! The draft law was announced as the main policy tool for greening transport in Latvia. However, in fact, quite quickly, the foot or the pelvis of the bag came out of the bag - it was obvious that there is no link with achieving environmental objectives for this draft law - it is simply a simple calculation with an attempt to collect additional funds from drivers, extra money from both the increase in the vehicle's operating tax and the introduction of a registration fee with one clear objective - not to support the environment, but to buy diesel trains. And the Minister was in a great shock when the public caught this deceptive thing and did not allow it to be done. I call for support for this and the rest of the proposals so that, indeed, there is even a little less environment-friendly transport.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U766	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U767	I must agree with my colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, that this initial offer was very, very critical. And worse, it was about these environmental issues, but in the end it turned out that money was needed for the purchase of diesel trains. That made the situation even more... in a sense such a unique... not only the fact that the political group in question did not support it, but also this proposal... In some ways, attempts were made to mislead the public by telling them that they are environmentally friendly solutions. In fact, the reason was the purchase of diesel trains! But for this... I would like to say that this proposal is, however, more environmentally friendly for the use of transport. There would be less congestion... Now let's think about our fellow people! I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U768	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U769	Yeah, thank you. During the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the association “Latvijas Auto” presented... and explained (with specific figures) that, following the proposed amendments to this law,... 17,3 per cent... the rise in annual tax. The purpose of introducing additional taxes or changing the system cannot be to generate additional income. Together with the... The introduction of more environmentally friendly road transport must also be accompanied by instruments. And it is this proposal that would ensure that buyers would be able to choose and buy more directly the most environmentally friendly vehicles and would not increase the tax burden on them. As the increase in the tax burden will not provide the corresponding additional income. On the contrary! Perhaps by introducing the new system, increasing the tax burden... Taxpayers will, as we know, be able to register and use vehicles registered in other countries, such as Lithuania or Estonia - such risks were pointed out by the Association “Latvijas Auto” and other experts working in this segment during the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax). I therefore ask for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U770	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U771	In the context of this proposal it has to be said that in Latvia there is the most expensive car operation in the region at all. And it is clear that the proposal should be supported, as it would even slightly reduce this cost of car use in general. I'm not going to talk about nature as more friendly or less friendly... But the fact in itself is that it is also about any other question that we are talking about... I have the feeling that people are literally driven out of Latvia - to register cars elsewhere - Estonia, Lithuania - to register companies elsewhere, to drive away themselves... in all possible ways... with the action that you do... not only in the context of this budget and this proposal, but in general with all the policies that the country has. I don't know if it's a purposeful act or a lack of competence. It's hard for me to say that. I feel that it is a purposeful activity. And I cannot explain to the public why the citizens of the Republic of Latvia, who are in power, must take such a targeted action against Latvian society. What has been promised to this effect against these people - posts or pension then any - in order to free our territory from Latvians, from Latvian citizens? I don't understand. I call for support for the proposal. Well, no matter which... I already understand that I will not support you. But can we really not support the people of Latvia once! We can't even register a car... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U772	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U773	Honourable Members! We had several meetings to promote the purchase and development of small-scale cars... was also on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. And the Ministry of Transport is committed to developing a programme - in line with the requirements of the European Union - with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which contributes to the development of small-scale transport in Latvia by June next year. The Minister of Transport has also promised... Who's heard it. And these new proposals, which will be developed and which are in fact... what the government has commissioned to develop for the Ministry of Transport... it intends to promote the purchase of cars that are either completely electric or partially... or hybrid car, which in various ways is rechargeable... as well as small engines... New... with a low engine capacity... Those with low emissions. And this concerns not only proposals 1, but also proposals 2 and 3. And these proposals and the programme itself, including the support programme... with support for buyers... Hopefully the Minister of Transport will keep his name and we will receive it next June. However, Proposal No 1 was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U774	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 57, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U775	2. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska and Bergmanis. It provides for a zero rate for new cars, which will be registered for the first time from 31 December 2020 and which after the new driving cycle... estimates will be up to 130 grams per kilometre. After the old system it would be - up to 90 grams, after the new system it will be 130 grams. The zero Tariff Commission has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U776	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U777	Yes, the Ministry of Transport really promises to develop something, but the Ministry of Transport cannot count on. This proposal, which was described by the Ministry as a very "green" and environmentally friendly, was, in fact, catastrophic: to put families with a huge registration fee without thinking of reducing the number of used, old cars on the Latvian market... simply making their use more expensive. This is a complex proposal that has been considered and which has been prepared by experts, and which corresponds to exactly what the Ministry of Transport is saying to do in the next six months. And the package of these proposals, colleagues, is also with a little... also with a slight positive fiscal effect. If you support these proposals, you will once again have caught two bunny - extra money for the budget and doing what needs to be done with a special incentive for low-emission cars. That is the idea, yes, as Mr Kirštein has already pointed out, for this proposal... There is a proposal to exempt vehicle operating tax altogether... by the new system... cars with an emissions of 130 grams [130 grams] per kilometre... I mean, after the old system... 115 grams of CO2 emissions per kilometre... The budgetary impact of the exemption would total EUR 1.85 million... the whole proposal... complexes, which can be very easily covered by a minimum progressive increase in vehicle operating tax rates for vehicles with particularly high emissions. This increase would be small - by an average of 4.4 percent - but we would get one good incentive to move to smaller, younger, more environmentally friendly vehicles. Without a specific public support programme, this will not be possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U778	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U779	Yes, colleagues! I am also confused about how the Ministry of Transport is trying to address the issue of old vehicles. Most likely we will never expect a positive incentive approach: offer families with these high-emission vehicles... not to impose an abnormally high charge on a vehicle, which will not be able to simply be pulled out, but to help to get rid of this vehicle, in this way, by subsidising the purchase of a new vehicle. This idea will probably never come to mind, but if it comes in, something will not allow it to happen. This is the approach in many countries. Absolutely normal approach! But what we see... We will also talk about this in relation to other proposals... There's really an approach: we look at what the table is, what vehicles are, what are the emissions, and then we just note... and to them all put a great charge on them, that they may suffer. We do so without going into the situation, without thinking about how people will live further, how people will live in regions that have a very old car. The car cannot be changed to us just every three years. Maybe one of my colleagues can do this, but usually... still... It is assumed to us that when a person buys a car, he also uses it for a long time without jumping from one model to another. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. I thank my colleagues for putting forward such a proposal. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U780	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U781	Dear colleagues, With regard to this car exploitation tax, it is indeed its tumult, its fluctuations as such are enormous. First of all, I remind you, my fellow Members, that there are huge differences between the cost of operating a car at all, if we compare the Baltic States. For example, I will mention to you the work done by the Association “Latvijas Auto”... a comparison of taxes that take account of the costs of registration, annual roadworthiness tests, natural resources tax and annual operating tax. Here you can see these differences between Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia in five years. I mean, in Latvia... If we take a car like the new Volkswagen Tiguan, then within five years all its costs would be EUR 774, in Estonia they would be EUR 230... forgive, EUR 231, and in Lithuania they would be EUR 161. Colleagues, we are talking about the difference that is... Well, close... Five times. And then, of course, these political fluctuations... Initially, the Ministry of Transport offers this very radical charge for old cars, diesel cars. And then, it's a fluctuating... In fact, there is no more motivation for people to buy cars with less emissions. That is why I really find it a surprise that this rather modest, I think, reasonable offer, which is also fiscally balanced... What is the basis for the coalition and the government to reject it? Well, as usual, an explanation is required. I think we'll see it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U782	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U783	Yes, colleagues! This would be a low-emission support programme for the car segment, which would include both electric and plug-in hybrid cars, hydrogen cars, as well as CNG or compressed natural gas cars, hybrids, including economic and ecological petrol and diesel vehicles, and thus would support the car segment, which is proportionate in price, colleagues, and accessible to the Latvian average driver. At the same time, CO2 emissions in the transport sector would be significantly reduced. After the forecasts of “Latvijas Auto“ association, with this and other market stimulation measures (for example, may give advantage by transferring the old car... write off a voucher and may also take further compensatory measures for the purchase of a new car) Latvia would be able to reduce CO2 emissions in the transport sector by 110 thousand tonnes by 2030 (i.e. 22 thousand electric cars equivalent).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U784	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U785	President. Dear colleagues, In this regard, if we are talking about transport in general, I have a not very happy news: today, the Riga Regional Court ordered Riga Airport to pay Ryanair 1.6 million euros. In what respect am I talking about this now when we look at the issue of transport tax? Because we all breathe one air! That is, if Minister Linita is sorry to get this money for drivers - it is about new, small cars - then why is he not sorry that Ryanair planes fly to Latvia every day with its Boeing?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. One such aeroplane has 80 tons of weight, and in each case it consumes much more fuel and its emissions are well above 1,000 cars. I think that this ecological and urbanist plague, which is currently taking place in our capital, has to be ended! What happens to the streets of the city! This bike victory march... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, especially today, when everyone sees a lot of cyclists in Riga... Therefore, I think it is high time to think about Latvian families, about people who use a car in their daily lives, and it is worth supporting our colleagues' proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U786	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U787	Dear colleagues, Although my colleague, Mr Kirštein, is very well reporting on this draft law, I would, however, like to call on the parliamentary secretary of the ministry, who is most likely present at this meeting, to really come and explain why the ministry, when this proposal was not supported by the government... why the Ministry has not supported this proposal either. As Mr Kaimiņa said, unfortunately, this is just a monologue, and it is shameful that the government, the government representatives, are not trying to defend their budget in any way. It's like a block that's down the road, no-one's own, no-handed, no-handed thing. We're looking at what's... no one owns that coffer, but that coffers will have to live in society as a whole. I call, colleagues, on this proposal to be supported, and I also call on you to comment...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U788	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U789	I also call for this proposal to be supported, and I call on the coalition Members to explain why it is not supported either. And I agree, on the one hand, with Mr. Neighbouring, that this monologue should stop, because in the legal state there is a need for dialogue... and - with its explanation to the public... However, on the other hand, it should also be recalled that such a monologue is also permitted by the Neighbours himself (not to be heard). ... Your voice. Why is this government in general responsible for the budget? In the context of this proposal... by analogy, just like in fact in the context of absolutely all the proposals... It is absolutely clear that our power is voting... does everything against the people of Latvia, especially against those who are less prosperous. And there's also an explanation for it: less well-off citizens probably can neither donate to political parties nor any interests of sponsors alike... There's no profit for politicians to make some sort of slipping of their interests. The most active Members of the coalition are only when there is potential for them to earn something for themselves. Prisons, gambling, waste... That's what each party doesn't have! But where it's about the protection of ordinary people... This is not the case. Five days we're talking about it. This has not been the case in any proposal: to protect the most vulnerable part of society. However, I call on the ministers and the coalition of power, which is responsible for this (due to people living even poorer), to climb into the tribunal and to explain what is the motivation for people to live next year's poverty again.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U790	The name of the Minister of Transport to Far Linkaith.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U791	The rapporteur of the Commission has already informed the Government of its observations in order to reject this proposal. I would like to remind you once again that the government is committed to making comprehensive proposals from this year until 1 July next year so that we not only protect the market from old cars, but also stimulate the purchase of environmentally friendly cars. We will do this together - the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. I am sure that we will find the best solution for our drivers. With regard to this and the other opposition proposals, I would call for it not to be supported, because it is not only a reduction in rates for one category of owners, but actually an increase in rates for all other drivers, which we did not want to support when looking at in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U792	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U793	Good evening, Mr. Linkait! Glad to join us. For older vehicles... I don't think the government should try anything out there at all, because your first attempt was... has already shown this trend, and better perhaps... better then do not do more than try to offer some wise solution, because what you offered last time would have created conditions that directly contributed to the existence of old vehicles, because simply a new machine... Well, to import a second-hand car would be quite rude. And then it would be like in Cuba, everyone is driving old cars, because it's just... new imports are very burdensome and there are very large imports. But on this particular proposal... I believe that this applies precisely to new machines. And that green course is Europe's green course... Riga... Riga must become the first climate-neutral capital in the Baltics! ‘ Development/About!’ , don't you think there's a saying that I just said? Very ambitious goals. And so that such ambitious objectives can be achieved, there must be very ambitious proposals. This proposal, I would like to say, is not even ambitious, it would significantly increase the number of environmentally friendly vehicles if we adopted it. Of course, we should think about where to find budgetary resources. And here I do not agree with Mr. Linkaita. It is quite simply a matter of putting more pressure on the figure of 3.90, which is the budget deficit which has made it very easy to achieve these objectives in this budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U794	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U795	That's a crazy thinking at all: to think like this: people buy old cars because they have a lot of money, and so we'll tax them, and then they buy younger, more expensive, more environmentally friendly cars because they have so much money, and so they've bought old cars. That's one logic. If we are talking about an environmentally friendly environment, then I think we need to start not with machines and half-empty Latvia, but maybe just start with the centre of Riga, where... Transload - without the roof! - very harmful cargoes and store very dangerous cargoes right here, near the center of Riga. That would be the first issue to be reviewed, not the question of machines. A solution to this issue of machines will now ensure that we will have something climate-neutral or... all these fools that are not really relevant to Latvia?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U796	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U797	Minister! Thank you for your participation, thank you for explaining your position. Unfortunately, however, I find it difficult to agree. It's time to explain a little, too, but if I'm very short now... You have recently offered that we could even buy from zero to 10 on some scale, well, your proposal was quite radical, making old cars very expensive, although, of course, our citizens are mainly buying old cars because of their income levels. But then you... from that radical offer, the proposal you went to - nothing. And actually, zero. Nothing is offered in this direction. And when you get a coalition actually offers a moderate... put forward a moderate proposal to achieve the same objective that you want to achieve, you say that the government has not supported it. Well, you'll agree with me -- it looks rather illogical.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U798	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U799	Yeah. But this proposal, however, is very specific about... exactly about the new car. And here I have to agree with Mr. Gobzem for the old car. If the old car will tax or... What tax... payment, in any case, it only worsens the situation, because quite simply these people do not have money to buy a new car. Very many, large part of Latvia, live in circumstances where they have no money. But this proposal, I think... If we really want to talk, not only in words, but also in works, about climate neutrality, about the green course, about the green lifestyle, then this is the place where we can support. All auto experts in car programmes and in many forums speak it alone: give support mechanisms! A very specific proposal is to provide support mechanisms through tax policy. Support!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U800	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U801	Yeah, thank you. It is important that tax policies and tax rates are supportive and competitive also compared to our neighbours in Lithuania and Estonia. Both in Lithuania and Estonia, there are several programmes that directly allow the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles. Currently there is no competitive offer in Latvia for the purchase of vehicles that are environmentally friendly. This proposal is an instrument that balances tax policy and says that people could buy more up-to-date and more environmentally friendly and pay a correspondingly lower tax burden. And it seems to me that the question of economy could arise in such a way that “Latvian railways”... probably there should not be as much investment in loans as is currently the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U802	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U803	This proposal has not been supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-27-PT13-2152-U804	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! On - 31, against - 58, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Members of Parliament Šteins, Kazinovskis, Dombrovskis, Švecova and Bondar ask the Saeima to declare a break before 9 a.m. on November 30, 2020. We must vote on this. Please open a section on the procedure. Can we vote? Please call me! We will vote for a break at the parliamentary extraordinary sitting of 23 November 2020 until 9 a.m. on 30 November this year! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. So, by 9 a.m. on November 30, this year. There's also a record of Members. It was a success. Thank you all for your work today. ( Interruption)
