ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U1	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for seats to be held in the Chambers. Let us begin the second extraordinary session on 17 June 2020. There are proposals for amendments to the agenda. The Members Zakaistov, Pavļuts, Steel, Latkovsky and Benhena-Beeken are asked to exclude from the agenda of the meeting the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Time and Procedure for the Entry into Force and Application of Part of Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Civil Law of 1937”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs. So I first received written information on these amendments to the agenda that Mr Atis Zakaistovs had applied for the floor. Please turn on the microphone for Member Atim Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U2	Hello, colleagues! This is a very sensitive question. It is a sensitive issue in both systemic meaning – that we can be indignant about what is happening in terms of childcare in Latvia. But it is also a sensitive question in individual terms – how do those children go. And if we have to choose here whether we should be sensitive to that, how things have to happen, or whether we should be sensitive to what they are, I would be inclined to think that we should look at how they are and try to help children. But what I know and understand is that this is not a clear point of view, so I am asking for a vote in favour, in this case excluding from the agenda yet to the end an issue that could be treated mixedly in our society. With this vote in favour, we make life easier for ourselves and society and continue to work. There will be a Committee on Development, there will be a broader debate, let us try to understand how to make this matter good in both the short and the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U3	Member Artus Kaimiņš has applied for the removal of the draft law from the agenda of the sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U4	Yes, I strongly doubt that the voters of the KPV LV party that I have established are on the adoption of children to America, where we do not know what is happening to these children. I am, if honestly, absolutely sure that none of these people who wanted to be signatories to the CPV LV are in favour of adoption to the United States or to a foreign country as such if there is unsubstantiated legislation. The legislation has been unsubstantiated for ten years, and we have talked about this for a long time in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. For months. Six, seven months is pronounced cross-section, a solution has been found, a solution has been found... The proposal to change the agenda is now on the agenda today an hour ago: to put an end to this issue, which we have carefully analysed, has found a solution, namely that two laws need to be changed. In principle, I... I even have words in my mouth if fair, difficult to speak – what I mean about this type of action. And in a gentle voice to tell the public that something else has not been discussed, Mr. Zakattistov, is a lie! A clear lie is also to tell you that everything is good and you can still wait for it – it is also a clear lie! Dear Members, Whether you are in a coalition, opposition or no political group, please vote against this change of agenda! We leave this item on the agenda so that we can already on the commission... move to the first reading without the re-visiting commission. This is about the children of Latvia, the orphans, who we need to protect primarily. These are human rights and the best interests of children. Rather than reflecting on the letters of ambassadors from other countries that will try to us, the possibility of showing us the best, most correct way to do things to our children. We are not writing to Canada or we are writing to Lithuania what to do with their children. In turn, we have ambassadors who write it. In this case, this is an emotionally charged question, and really the heart is contracting when you hear that there are still sparrows left... Where there is no party representative, even no one on this website where we discuss. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, however, takes place on the computer screen. None of these signatories have been, have heard no discussion, nothing. Committee on Development... If you want to say something, no matter what the matter is going on, you are making development committees, where you can embarrass, take time to adopt other children. The short summary is that the new draft law, which we have submitted from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, is that those processes that have begun with adoption are active processes that are – they remain. It's about we're breaking down the next one and watching what's... what needs to be done in order to have a system of orphanage courts that needs reforms... I get my hands down completely as a responsible minister from the Ministry of Welfare, who... Apologies to me, I pulled myself behind my hand at the Saeima... is responsible for these children, and her responsibility is in the position that we are such a good nation and simply export our children to America. It is, after all, human, because the state must start with itself. Right, Atty Zakaitistov? Dear Members, Please reject this proposal, and indeed there is a question for every vote here. Thank you. Vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U5	Please call me! We will vote for the withdrawal from the agenda of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Time and Application Procedure of the Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Family Rights of 1937”! Please, let's vote! On – 38, against – 41, abstained – 4. Draft legislation shall not be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Members Zakaitistov, Pavļuts, Voika, Steel and Latkovskis are asked to exclude from the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”. Will Members speak in favour and against this amendment of the agenda? Mr Zakatistova, will you also speak on this matter? You have signed up electronically. Does this also apply to this draft law or only to the first one on which we voted?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U6	I would like to speak on the draft law to be referred.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U7	Will anyone speak 'no'? So "no" applied to speak to Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U8	Yes, thank you, colleagues, for hearing me. And the previous question... So you voted against. This draft law goes back to the previous one, which we have already voted on. In principle, it remains on the agenda. Taking this out is legally wrong at all, and there is no point in doing so, that is, from the point of view of the legal technique – because the first has already been removed. If we were talking about the dry balance, then I was very ashamed to see that my country is 13th place in the world from the bad end – 13th place in the world! – in terms of children's exports, in principle. 13th place from all countries of the world. We are the ones who give their children abroad. Doesn't we really have anything to be proud of with, like, an unsubstantiated adoption system? And when we're finally here... has started to touch the outside case (there is a dry balance, the bill has been brought to the first reading; for the second reading I ask for proposals, we will wait) then now try to remove this out of the agenda! Please, honourable Members, let us not be in the 13th place! We're in 13th place from the bottom, not from the top! In terms of children's exports, we are not a major country for children's exporters, but today, unfortunately, it is on paper. When this issue is dealt with in essence, I will tell many facts, factual events, as they are, about the meaning of the bill, as such, because it has two sides. Here, in this case, I ask once again to leave the draft law on the agenda and to vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of excluding the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” from the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please, let's vote! On – 37, against – 40, abstained – 2. Draft legislation shall not be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law submitted by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs “Amendment to the Law “On the Time and Application Procedure of the Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Family Law of 1937” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Will Members speak for and against? ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U10	Hello, colleagues! I really wanted to be neutral on this at first, but what I hear, especially from Mr Kaimiņa, is something that does not honor either this Saeima (and it is a personal attack) or the quality of the argumentation. I hear such patriotism in the Urre. And it's quite empty in the Urra Patriotism. We're talking about drums and what the world should be. We pull the drums, shame each other, we pull the drums, we go with the door of the legs open, and in the end, I think this Urre Patriotism ends after a sitting when one member of the other goes home and drinks wine. If I had to compare this kind of Urra patriotism with the tears of one sick child, I would say that Urra patriotism is empty sounds (not hearable). ... This is a question of children, of children's rights and of children's lost hope. Every patriot can go home and feel good about himself, but the child who is at an institution that has no hope in the near future, and I repeat – there is no hope for something better – compared to every shout of the patriot in the urron, is in a sad situation. I therefore call for the vote to be taken against this bill, because I think it is cruel to children. In my opinion, that is, let us say, non-diplomatic, perhaps even termed silly, and it involves self-esteem. It is self-esteem that the members of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, one-sided consideration of this issue, think that they are able to decide on the fate of children. Let's go back to the first! This really is a cruel bill, because it deprives a sick child of the basic thing of hope. Returning to non-diplomaticism – who are we who are insulting the countries to which children are adopted – for the fact that those adoptors are probably cruel evils. I think it's stupid, especially if we do it... a partner such as the United States of America. Think about how you would feel if one country said: “We will not allow for adoption to Latvia. Let's make an embargo, because it's a beautiful word. Why? Because we suspect that the adoptors from that country are cruelly coerced.” If I were the ambassador of that country, I would not only write letters, but I would probably say a couple of fine words. Then, here we are with a cruel bill, here we are with a silly, non-diplomatic bill, and in the end we are very clearly demonstrating self-esteem with this. This issue has not been comprehensively addressed. Artuss Kaimiņš is a very bad commission leader who has conducted the discussion unilaterally, without listening to what the other party says. This has happened selectively. Unfortunately, this is typical of this man. When I think of these two draft laws, I hope that both my speech and my personal attacks, which go in every direction from one particular Member, which I think is called Artus, will, in my opinion, encourage the public to find out more. As a party, we are ready to provide additional explanations to the public tomorrow with data on the situation as we see it, and we see it from the perspective of the rights of the human child, not from the patriotic outburst of the urral before the tired eyes shut up after a glass of wine. Please vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U11	Ms Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U12	Good evening, honourable colleagues! I would like to say that Ata Zakatistov's speech was full of errors. I mean, maybe it's because he's not... That is not the truth that my colleague Zakaistov has been talking about here. In December, we received a letter from the Ombudsman at the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs pointing to very serious shortcomings in the supervision of adopted children. In fact, Latvia is the only country that does not carry out a very thorough examination of what is happening to adopted children. That would be just one side of the question. Here, in fact, since December, we have been working and we have listened to a large number of experts, experts on this issue, and we have come to the conclusion that, thanks to the Ombudsman, we see this issue as very important, which the country needs to look at. First of all, we need to put our laws in order. We must not trade with our children as a country. It is a very refined and careful business with children, and it is not true that sick children are adopted. The diagnosis is invented, and children are adopted on the basis of this diagnosis (for example, celiac disease – it is not a diagnosis of disease). Children are not adopted from the system, so to speak, from orphanages. They are usually asked to be given back in foster families. This causes enormous stress to children. They have integrated, settled in their foster family, and now they are taken from there to give adoption to the United States, because in the last decade children's adoption from Latvia is mainly carried out by the United States. As a country, I think it is very important for us to see ourselves in this very unpleasant situation, that there is no law in order to take care of, support for, and take care of, foster families... so that families here in Latvia, who have expressed their desire to adopt children, could do so. The Ministry of Welfare has actually created a channel that is much more widely available... from the United States about adopted children, about possibilities... than people who have expressed this desire – adopt children here in Latvia. Besides, there have even been burdens on adoption... adopt kids in our diaspora... Latvians. I would also like to say to you that this is a very important question of the identity of every adopted child who will one day be an adult. Because we don't only link identity to singing and dancing, as we tried to point out here in the commission. I want you, as people who need to make a really important decision at this point, to say that these children will grow big people and they will face some sort of person's internal integrity in their lives... identity problem, and they will not be able to solve it before they meet their biological parents. It is very important that these children, who are adopted, are adopted here in Latvia, so that Latvia does not trade with its children. It's actually a very difficult question that we're doing tonight... Let us decide immediately, and I am asking you very much and urge you to be very responsible. Latvia must not trade with its children! I am asking very much and I am calling for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission for work. We will improve the draft law, and we have already achieved... a very large amount of work has been done, combining a very large number of positions. I call on you to support the referral of the draft law to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U13	Thank you, colleagues. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Application of the Renewed Part of Family Rights of the Republic of Latvia’s Family Law of 1937”, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! On – 44, against – 32, abstained – 4. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda: Draft law... I'm sorry. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members want to talk about the handing over of this draft law to the commission? Mr. Cilevič, you will speak. ... ‘for’ or ‘to’? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. B. Cilevičs: “ Against” ) Mr. Boris Cilevičs, Member of Parliament, has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U14	Colleagues! We are really talking about an extremely sensitive issue. Listening to Mr. Kaimiņa's passionate speech, I began to wonder if I really was working on the same commission, because there really was something completely different from Mr. Kaimiņa's telling me about it. Indeed, this issue has been addressed on several occasions and there are indeed a number of problems with adoption. I always hear about some sort of abuse, some sort of abuse, and I always ask a question – name one word! Is there an investigation of a service? Is there a criminal procedure? You are really talking about terrible things, but purely theoretically, without any justification and proof. That is a serious question. No, I keep telling you that everything is terrible. You have a completely terrible situation without one particular example. That's... Last time it happened today, when we discussed this issue in the Commission, and this question, too, remained without any answer – hanging in the air. Second moment. No solution is proposed, colleagues. Because we have long been talking about simply implementing the principle that is now enshrined in our laws and also in all international law. Primary documents of international law... the primary interests of the child. The principle is very simple. Yes, we do our best to adopt a child in Latvia. If this is not possible, international adoption can exceptionally be allowed. That's it! Everything is very simple. Then I have a question, sorry, can any child sick child be adopted in Latvia today? Well, it's not! How many children do we still have in institutions? Yes, much has been done and indeed the situation has improved. This is very welcome, but there are still hundreds of children in institutions. Then, according to the best interests of the child – to be adopted in the US family or to stay here in the orphanage or even in a foster family when 18 years later... By the age of 18, is the child left on the street? What is in the best interests of the child, colleagues? And somebody... In fact, we are always faced with the fact that there are no procedures and no normal, good methodologies to determine what is in the best interests of the child. Well, let's develop this methodology! We have been talking about this for months. This draft law was opposed by the Ministry of Welfare, and the Law Office intervened against it. I will not tell you what happened today in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Our Saeima President even had to intervene because it really was outside any parliamentary ethics, because the committee chairman wants to get through this draft law that does not solve anything, absolutely nothing. Let us look at the substance of the problem rather than follow the example of Russia. Colleagues, perhaps some of you remember that after the so-called Magnitsk law was passed in the United States, the Russian Council took a very similar decision – exactly the same as we are discussing now, prohibiting adoption to the United States. It was a clear revenge from the Russian Parliament. The so-called Dimas Jakovļeva Law. We do the same thing. We look at our children as some kind of capital, some raw material. We need people to develop the economy. I believe, however, that the first thing we should think about is that our children should be good... And if we're not yet able to ensure that they're good here, well, let's let those who have a desire, have money, have a skill, but take care of our children until we can do it ourselves. I call on you not to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U15	Thank you. Will you, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, talk about handing over the draft law to the commission? Thus, the Member Regina Ločmele-Lunova has applied for a “for” speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U16	I'll be talking about it. I will really call for a vote to be made on this draft law for those who want Latvia to be like Russia with its famous Dimas Jakovļeva law – a law that all liberal society not only in Russia, but even in Europe, would be equal to medieval law. Please vote in favour of those who are ready to apply for adoption of our orphans tomorrow. I will call, in particular, on the head of our commission, who hypocritically takes care of the interests of children with his speech. I will certainly vote... I will call on those who are willing to adopt this law not only for orphans under the age of 18, but certainly apply tomorrow to adopt already adult orphans who after 18 years have neither a normal apartment nor a loved one, who, unlike adoptors in the United States themselves, are ready to take care of this person until the end of their lives if they become his family. I will definitely call on you to vote in favour of this law for those who are willing to donate their apartments to orphans here in Latvia, who are under foster families... after the release from these families remains on the street. I will certainly ask the members of the National Alliance and the UK to be like our Jewish community in Latvia, which has taken care that since the first republic (and this is also the tradition of the second republic), no Jewish child has been or remains in the orphanage even if his parents have died because the child is being taken care of by the community. Why don't we, the community of Latvia, the Latvian community, take care that no Latvian child stays in the orphanage for us? I can only say one thing – I personally know children who were adopted to the United States and are happy there. I personally know the families that, yes, because of our rude legislation, were forced to temporarily give those children to orphanage (for which Ms Le Gallas did not understand what she was talking about) just so that that child would be adopted if that was, for example, a teenager... where it has been, where he has met the family who wants to get there. It does not happen that the child does not agree. Let's... If you were up to these foster families and talked to those kids, then you wouldn't... I don't even have words. Well, please vote in favour, because in principle this vote will show who you are for the people. And then be ready to submit applications to adopt all those children tomorrow, even after 18 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! On – 42, against – 37, abstained – 4. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, on the agenda under the heading ‘Review of draft legislation’. Draft law “Amendments to Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U18	Good evening, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Colleagues! Today we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers at first reading at the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima. These amendments were prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, evaluating the proposals of the Central Electoral Commission. The draft law provides for regulation of the election process of Riga City Council, taking into account Covid-19 virus conditions. The draft law provides that, under the conditions of Covid-19 virus, voters who previously used the possibility of changing the local districts could apply for changing the districts by post, as well as by e-mail or portal Latvija.lv, if voters have an e-signature or Internet bank authentication tools. The amendments also provide for a longer working time for polling stations on previous voting days, in order to avoid crowding in polling districts, as well as to allow more protected groups of voters – seniors, voters with chronic diseases – to vote in times of low attendance. Given the spread of the Covid-19 virus, the draft law calls for changes to the order in which voters who, because of their state of health, cannot come to vote in the district can apply for a vote at their location. It is intended that the application for a vote at the place of the vote in this election should not be brought to the station, but that the voter or his family member or the trust person may submit it electronically or by post. On the other hand, if one of the employees who would have to work in the polling station is infected with the Covid-19 virus and the members of the district commission are determined by self-insulation or quarantine, the district is closed and it is possible to channel all the voters registered in the polling station to the adjacent districts by electronic exchange of information. If necessary, it will also be possible for the district commissions to organise a vote at the voters' seats during the previous voting days. This will make it possible to serve more voters in their seats if Covid-19 threats lead to more applications for voting in locations than usual. At the same time, there is also an opportunity for voters to vote not only in their own polling station, but in any other polling station of Riga and to describe the procedure for implementing this by electronic exchange of information between polling stations. The draft law also describes the procedure for counting votes, if voting has taken place in the district’s registration envelope. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U19	So no Member has applied for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! On – 71, against – 1, refrained – 9. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U20	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U21	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U22	Hello! First of all, I would like one Member or Parliamentary Secretary to explain in this debate why this draft law is being directed at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, why this draft law, which concerns the competence of the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government, is not being directed directly at the committee responsible? Please tell me why the commission that has so far dealt with all the issues related to human activities... with amendments and improvements to electoral laws, are completely excluded from this process? That's the first. Second. Looking at the text of this bill, there were many questions. Well, for example, we are voting for the same application not in the polling station, but in another place where the voter is present. For example, it says that a man... to be able to vote in a polling station other than the polling station, to submit an application to the appropriate electoral committee. But if he cannot, he or she can do so by a relative or another person to whom he trusts. Tell me, please, how... will it be checked whether this is the case: will it be required to have an authorisation, or will it have to be certified by an electronic signature? This provision, which is recorded here, does not have time to apply when the application is to be sent and so on. So that this bill looks really very green. And I have a deep suspicion that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development had brought it in line with the Central Electoral Commission. There are questions about the legitimacy of the elections, about how safe the results of these elections could be. And especially so, it is absolutely incomprehensible why this draft law, with such shortcomings, will be viewed not by the commission responsible, which has at least some experience in looking at the laws on elections, but by the Commission for Budget and Finance (tax). Maybe just because this... its President is able to direct the draft laws at a bright speed? Well, then we will have deep doubts about the quality of this bill and the legitimacy of the extraordinary elections in Riga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U23	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U24	Dear colleagues, I understand that the coalition Members have, of course, agreed to support both this draft law and its urgency, but I would nevertheless like to draw your attention to a few issues for the sake of the protocol. So I don't think you've been warned of all this. This bill... Well, as if the aim should be to minimise the risks of epidemiological safety, because, as you can all read in all titles, the Ministry of Health is always talking about the possible second wave of Covid-19, which could even probably start at about the time of the Riga City Council elections. However, if you look at the annotation of this draft law, you will not find the Ministry of Health there in the section where the institutions involved in project development exist. In particular, we can conclude from this that the Ministry of Health has not participated in the drafting of this law, at least according to annotation. I also informed you that during the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission meeting... The Minister for Health has also not participated in this sitting, and we have not been able to find out the opinion of the Ministry for Health on whether this draft law does not really present any additional epidemiological risks. We're... We have just heard the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, if I am not mistaken, an office staff member who has claimed to us... Well, I say there's been some kind of advice. That's why, at least, in my view, this... We do not have any clarity as to what these epidemiological risks really are, because the opinion of the Ministry of Health is unknown to us. It would therefore be difficult for me to support this draft law at such a bright pace. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U25	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U26	I just wanted to add that a representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission informed that the proposals had been drawn up following proposals from the Central Electoral Commission. It was also informed that the proposals were developed on the basis of the recommendations of the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control... and was informed to the Commission. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! On – 66, against – 2, abstain – 16. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U28	The Commission decided to set a deadline of 15 minutes for the submission of proposals and a second reading at the extraordinary meeting of the Saeima on 18 June, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U29	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals will be 17 June at 20.15 of this year, and consideration will be held by the Saeima at its meeting on 18 June of this year. On the agenda – Draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative” (No. 529/Lp13), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, first reading, and alternative draft law “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative” (No. 734/Lp13), submitted by the Legal Commission, first reading. The Commission rapporteur will report on both drafts, and the debate will also be on both drafts together. Voting – first of all on the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and then on the alternative draft law drafted by the Commission. Member Ritvars Jansons is on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U30	Highly respected colleagues and honourable colleagues! Before the first reading, the Legal Commission has examined the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative”” (No. 529/Lp13). The draft law together with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation” was reviewed at the joint meeting of the Legal Commission and the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government of 29 January this year and at the meeting of the Legal Commission of 9 June. In these sittings, the draft law... The Legal Commission did not support the draft law “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative”” and invited the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption to develop an alternative draft law and submit it to the Legal Commission, so that the Commission could lead it as its draft law for consideration in the Saeima. Thus, the Legal Commission rejected the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative” and decided to submit to the Saeima for consideration the alternative draft law “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative” which has also been done. If we are talking about this first draft law, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, on behalf of the Commission, please reject the draft law, which was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative” (No. 529/Lp13) by a vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U31	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative”” (No. 529/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! On – 5, against – 78, abstained – 1. Consequently, the draft law has been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U32	The Legal Commission has supported the draft alternative law drafted by the Commission “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative” (No. 734/Lp13) to refer to the Saeima and request recognition of the draft law as urgent for it to enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability, which in turn comes into force on 1 July of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U33	Colleagues, so let us vote on the urgency of this draft law. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on ‘Amendments to the law on People's Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative’ (No. 734/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please, let's vote! For – 79, against – 1, abstain – 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U34	The draft law was designed to implement the plan for the implementation of the system for the codification of sector-specific administrative irregularities. The draft law includes the composition of administrative offences provided for in Section 204.2 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (irregularity of promotion regulations). The composition of the administrative offences provided for in Article 204.2 concerns both the Law on Pre-election Promotion and the Law on National Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative. These compositions of administrative offences affect the possibility for the public to receive comprehensive information not only before the elections on candidates for Members, lists of candidates for Members, political parties, associations of political parties and electoral associations, but also on the intended popular vote or the proposal of laws. Legal Commission asks for support to the draft law “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative” (No. 734/Lp13) at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the law on People's Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative" (No. 734/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U36	The deadline for the submission of proposals is 15 minutes, the deadline for consideration is the next extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U37	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals will be 17 June at 20.20 this year, and the time for the examination will be the next sitting of the Saeima. On the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U38	Good evening, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law” (No. 725/Lp13), second reading. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has not received proposals for second reading in this draft law. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law on Amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Law at second, final, final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! On – 86, against – 1, refrains – not. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U40	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’ (No. 659/Lp13) for second reading. No proposals were received for the second reading. Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-17-PT13-2099-U41	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please, let's vote! On – 84, against – 1, refrains – None. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda for today's sitting. The Bureau plans to hold the Bureau's meeting to announce tomorrow's agenda. I would like to inform you that we are planning to convene the Saeima sitting remotely tomorrow at 9.00. Let's start with the President's speech. The agenda of the meeting will be available within a few minutes after the Bureau has held a meeting and the agenda has been adopted. Thank you all for your work today. There's a registration. It was a success. I'm closing the sitting.
