ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U1	Honourable Members! Opening of the third extraordinary session of 21 July 2020. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U2	Good afternoon, colleagues! Two proposals were received for the second reading of the draft law. 1. – The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior Signes Boles, which intends to slightly extend the wording of the previous article, provides that the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs may revoke the residence permit following the Health Inspectorate, the Information provided by the State Police or the municipal police on violations of the rules of isolation, self- isolation, quarantine or home quarantine. The wording is also supplemented by the fact that the challenge of such a decision does not prevent its enforcement. The proposal is supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U3	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – Proposal from Parliamentary Secretary Boles of the Ministry of the Interior! Please, let's vote! No. 69, no. 1, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U4	2. – Legal Bureau proposal, which is a technical proposal where the digits of the seats have been exchanged. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U5	Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 68, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U6	Consequently, all proposals in the draft law have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U7	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to Ventspils Freeport Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U8	Hello, dear colleagues! Today, at the second meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we worked excellently with the draft law “Amendment to the Freeport of Ventspils Law”. We received two proposals from the outside, from Members, and we created another third from the Commission. So there are three proposals in general. Three things – good things! 1. – Member Ivars Zarina's proposal, which specifies the time during which a loan can be granted to Ventspils Freeport, also states that it is necessary to receive support from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission of the Saeima for the granting of the loan. And the same thing, by the way, is the proposal 2. As regards proposal 1, it was partly supported and included in the third proposal. – a proposal from the committee responsible. And in this regard... if it is necessary to vote and no one will table a debate, then I would call for a 'no' vote or a 'no' vote on proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U9	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – Member Ivars Zarina's proposal! Please, let's vote! 18 for, 45 against, 10 abstentions. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U10	2. - a proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. It also determines in which year this loan can be granted... So, within the limits of the year... and the receipt of acceptance of the Saeima’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, but in a slightly different form of legal technique. This proposal was also partly supported and incorporated into 3. – a proposal from the committee responsible. I immediately state that, on behalf of the Commission, I am therefore calling on us to abstain or vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U11	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U12	Dear colleagues, Despite the fact that both Ivara Zarina and my proposal were partly supported, I will nevertheless call for a vote in favour of my proposal, because it would be more important for the resolution of this time to be kept as it is in my proposal for 2020, because there would be greater legislative control. And with regard to the next stages, we could also decide, as far as possible, on the next budget. The difference between Mr. Zarina's proposal and mine is only in that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... Mr Zarina's proposal states that support is needed, but my proposal does not oppose the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. How we found out (in the Commission we also found the opinion of the Legal Bureau!) , in principle it is almost one and the same. This means that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission must come together and take a decision. And it is also in principle consistent with the legal technique laid down in previous legislation on the management of the effects of the Covid-19 crisis. It could be said that this is a compromise... in case... in the light of this law, because at least some parliamentary control will be provided for in this case. How it will work – we will see it next. But in general, let's say... without supporting all this idea as such... you also heard at first reading... Some kind of rescue in all this maybe... at least in this proposal, where... In fact, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission will at least, to some extent or otherwise, pay attention to where its money will be channelled and under what conditions. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U13	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U14	Hello, colleagues! However, I will ask for this proposal not to be supported, as the proposal of the committee responsible was established. And I'll remind you again why it was created. It is not known exactly when the commitments could be taken over, or, in other words, the moment... more precisely, the time at which the takeover period will be concluded. It was originally planned to be 2020 but, having also heard the Ministry of Transport, we realized that it could be 2020, 2021, 2022 and perhaps even 2023. This recital was taken into account by the Commission and led to the establishment of the relevant proposal by the Commission responsible. This is proposal 3, which I have already asked for support in good time. Of course, in this case, it is not clear how long the period could take. This may also be the case by 2022. However, when speaking also to the Treasury and listening to the Information from the Treasury, we saw that the Treasury does not object to it. Colleagues, therefore, I see that this proposal has been supplemented. And, as the rapporteur has already said, so also the proposal 3 - a proposal from the committee responsible, which is much more rational in this case. Please support the next proposal, but do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U15	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U16	Thank you. Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to talk about my proposal because, for some reason, the link with the Saeima sitting disappeared. That's the key that combines all these proposals... The most important thing here is that we offer to introduce... However, predict that there is something already – at least some! – Saeima control over this state aid... Not even support... over this funding granted, over these loans granted, because some of the promoters of the draft law had completely forgotten it, they had ignored it. And if we, the opposition, hadn't come with such a proposal that, however, any monitoring of the Saeima over this process should be anticipated, then, of course, there would have been no such monitoring, and today all, like rams, a blind ram, would have voted in favour... Then such a order of things that the Saeima has no saying at all and millions can be shared behind the Saeima's back, telling fairy tales would be accepted. Such an amendment now provides for (and that is important, we, as the legislator, have to say here that we are going to do it!) the fact that the responsible commission, the Saeima’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, will have to come together and assess what the government is going to accept – what support, what loan, what projects, under what conditions; this collateral will have to be assessed and accepted. Similarly, by analogy... the way in which it is done when the budget appropriations are being examined. I think this is very important – very important! - Amendment. And it is very important that the Saeima comes to this decision responsibly and really evaluates it all. Because today you have heard simple stories about where and how this money will be spent and under what conditions. The reality can be very much different from all of this. Unfortunately, the existing experience points to this. Why is this so important? Because in this situation... now that this form of port management will change and no one really knows how it will change and when it will change (including those who are responsible for all of this and who have started all of it!) , it really is a very important assessment of such a loan (i.e. what the loan will have collateral and what exactly the funds are intended for) so that it does not happen that we are now being told one thing – it takes money as if for some one project – but then something else can emerge below these projects (and it is likely that it will). That is why nothing was provided for in this draft law, which is why no monitoring by the Saeima was provided for. I therefore call for such a monitoring mechanism by the Saeima to be activated and used responsibly. I am referring in particular to the Heads of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and my colleagues from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission – I invite you to really follow it and look at it. So the fact – what is the security – will be very important here. and how this money will return. In order not to create a scheme through these loans to dispose of essential parts of the port infrastructure for the benefit of anyone else. And then the result of all this story will be that we will create even more rattle than it is already in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U17	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U18	The Commission has partly supported this proposal. In this context, I call for 'no' votes or abstaining... those who abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – Member Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! To - 17, to - 48, to - 7 abstentions. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U20	And we have now come to the third proposal, a proposal from the committee responsible, which includes both the time frame for granting loans and the said need for coordination between the Saeima's Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission in order to ensure the nature of the transitional provisions and the legal technique. In this respect, I call for support for the proposal of the committee responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U21	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – the proposal of the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There is no – 77, not and refrain. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U22	We have done so quickly and well, and that is why all the proposals have been examined. Now I call for support for the draft law at second, final, final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to Ventspils Freeport Law” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No. - 63, no. - 4, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U24	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 752/Lp13). I will tell you about the nature of this draft law and also about the justified urgency, since it has been requested by the Commission. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers, in so far as the law does not provide otherwise, determines development planning documents of all levels, types and time periods. Section 14(18) of the Education Law currently states that the Cabinet of Ministers “forms and submits for approval in the Saeima guidelines for education development for the next seven years as a single state policy and strategy in education”. By letter of 24 April 2019 of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš expressed his opinion that it is necessary to change the procedure for approving the existing guidelines and to delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers to approve the guidelines for development of education for the next seven years. On the basis of the above, the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted to the Saeima the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, which provides that the Cabinet approves the guidelines for the development of education for the next seven years. The current educational development guidelines shall expire on 31 December 2020. And since the education development guidelines are an instrument for the European Union's Structural Funds investment planning, the guidelines 2021-2027 need to be developed and approved by the end of 2020. The European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions. The draft law promoted by the Commission contains a framework for defining guidelines for the development of education and provides that before approving the guidelines at the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education and Science receives support from the Education, Culture and Science Commission. This is like a compromise agreement. The draft law also provides that the Ministry of Education and Science is to draw up three action plans – therefore, for the first three years, for the next two years and for the remaining two years – to achieve the objectives set out in the guidelines on education development. Before their approval at the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education and Science shall submit plans for evaluation by the Education, Culture and Science Commission. The Education Law also provides for the addition of a regulation that requires the Ministry of Education and Science to manage the implementation of the common State policy and development strategy in education, in coordination with other institutions involved in the education process, and the task for the Ministry of Economics to update the medium and long-term labour market forecasts to be used for the development of education development guidelines at least every two years. In the light of the timetable for the adoption of these guidelines and in order to comply with the rules laid down in the draft law on amendments to the Education Law, the Commission asks the Saeima, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, to declare the draft law urgent so that the regulation contained therein can be adopted and enters into force no later than September 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U25	Thank you. On urgency, Members have not applied to speak. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! 58, against 18, abstaining – not available. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U26	Yes, respectively, the Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking for second reading as well... first reading... the draft law without a re-examination by the Commission and its adoption at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U27	Well, wait, wait! First reading. And before the first reading, there is still a debate. So let's start the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U28	Yes, what you, honourable colleagues, have heard from the rapporteur. So he described the situation – the legislator himself, in this, 13, when the Saeima was reviewing the law, decided to waive his right to approve these guidelines, as previously stipulated in the law. It is no secret that before the amendments, which are now being proposed by the Saeima itself, were still amendments which had been withdrawn by the Saeima. Then 12. In the Saeima, we returned its mandate to the Saeima and now let us take it away again. Is there really nothing else to do to the commission? I object in general... conceptually against the fact that the Saeima has no participation at all in this event. I see that the compromise has been reached. As Mr Znotiņš said, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science is taking part in this or any other way of forming these guidelines... But I do not see a mechanism that allows other Members to be involved in drawing up these guidelines and submitting proposals. It is very bad that this does not happen on the parliamentary roll, but there is a way to legitimise your participation in this event. That's not good. But, in general, I would like to remind you that, at present, given that the field of education is very unstable precisely because of this leadership, we are not giving up ourselves. The legislator himself refuses the approval of such an important programming document as the education guidelines, voting here by 100 Members and also presenting proposals. Therefore, if, of course, the rapporteur could explain this, let us say what these proposals contain, in this new version, about the participation of the Commission... It's still... it will, of course, also be included in the verbatim report, and this will explain this idea. I would like to hear it because it is otherwise necessary to make proposals for a second reading. I know that each Member has the right to submit a deadline for the submission of proposals. I would really like to understand. Mr. Znotiņš, please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U29	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U30	Hello, colleagues! I will speak and will call for support at first reading for this draft law and do not object to its support at second reading either. The concerns that Jūlija Stepanenko has just raised are, of course, the basis for this. But I still remember how we approved the previous education guidelines almost seven years ago and how it was a samocite process. Because at that time, the situation was that a document was brought to the Saeima, in which neither the Saeima commission nor the Saeima as a whole had the opportunity to make any corrections. We could either reject that document back to the Cabinet of Ministers or try to confirm it in such a way with all kinds of arrangements, with... like with the entries in the protocol and so on... then exactly below each sentence recorded in the document lies. And therefore, from such a rational logic it seems that it is better if this document comes to the Cabinet only after having obtained the support of the Saeima Education, Culture and Science Commission. I must remind you that, in principle, a few weeks ago, we had already been presented with amendments to the Education Act for exactly the same reason, because of these guidelines. The situation was that the Commission received a number of proposals that did not refer to the guidelines. That is why the Commission decided that, in order not to brake this matter specifically on the guidelines, we are making a Commission proposal. In this Commission proposal, what Members, including I wanted to see, is not everything. This is a compromise. Let's say, I thought that these guidelines, before they reach the Cabinet of Ministers, are also mandatory documents from the Latvian Municipal Union on the opinion that municipalities are saying. Because if we look at the existing education guidelines, about a third of this document applies specifically to municipalities, to the involvement of municipalities in the provision of education at pre-school level, at the general secondary level, and also at the level of education of interests. It's all... these are all things that the guidelines must address. So far, the situation was that no law at all clearly and clearly stated what these guidelines were. Everyone could understand anything. This proposed option says at least that it is the main strategic and political document in education, and there cannot be anything else. Let us not say that this is exhaustive, but it is enough, let us say, targeted. What else... What we discussed in the commission... Not only the Ministry of Education and Science, but other ministries, local governments and private providers of education services are already responsible for the education process in the country, and their involvement in this harmonisation process must be necessary. So if you're reading this version, then it's... The Ministry of Education and Science is the leading institution in the development and implementation of these guidelines, but it must do so in cooperation with all other providers of education services, promoters of the education process and in particular with local authorities. What is still inside, and it was one of my proposals – the issue of horizontal interconnection. It's about what's been limped in the country all the time. If we look at vocational education, where the main client is the Latvian economy and the economic supervisor – the Ministry of Economics – then, say, at the level of policy-making, in my view, the link between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Economics has so far not been sufficiently close. At the same time, we see that a document such as medium and long-term labour market forecasts are now regularly appearing. When attending the meeting of the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of Economics confirmed that they are prepared to re-establish this type of research every two years and to develop these forecasts. It is a compulsory document for the development of guidelines. So it is also embedded in this legislative option to ensure that these guidelines are based on the needs of our entire society. So, of course, as I said, there are some concerns. I, too, remain concerned that something can be something that the Saeima will not be able to influence, and that will depend to a large extent on our right time when the guidelines move through the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, we will be able to respond to how we will attract our colleagues (the people who work on the Commission). And that will also be to a large extent our responsibility for the quality of this document. But despite this, I still believe that a more correct and unartificial process is when these guidelines are finally approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, but as is the law... amendments to the law are written when it has passed a detailed, scrupulous analysis through the Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima and received support from the Commission. Without the support of the Commission, this document cannot reach the Cabinet of Ministers in the version that is currently in place for the first reading at all. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U31	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U32	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Vucanas for such a truly constructive analysis and also for setting out the situation, as has been the case in history, and the Education, Culture and Science Commission for its active work and cooperation already in the development of the guidelines. In response to Mrs Stepanenko's concerns, as Mr Wuzan has already mentioned, the Commission on Education, Culture and Science will be actively involved in this work. I call on you to send your proposals to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, and then, through the Commission, we will see and evaluate these proposals, both within the Commission and with colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Science, and we will be included in the joint discussion. This could be the process as well as other members of the Saeima participating in the drafting of the guidelines. So not only the members of the commission, but also the others. And before this guidelines are approved in the Cabinet of Ministers, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science will also have the opportunity to discuss them further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U33	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U34	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to respond a little bit to Mrs Stepanenko's concern about the progress of this bill. I would like to say that the commission has done very well, and what we have done is clearly specified in the law, which then is the guidelines for education, stating that it is a document that defines a common state policy. But it is very important what we have done – we have said that here are mainly objectives, settings that can be achieved in the longer term, and the law has laid down norms that plans for the first three years, the next two years and the remaining two years must be assessed after each period. This clarifies all these achievement mechanisms. In connection with the Saeima. There is also a rather precise mechanism in place that without the commission acceptance such documents... Neither the action plan nor the guidelines... may be moved to the Cabinet of Ministers. And so here's your say to the Saeima. In this case, we call on all Members of the Saeima to take part at the time when the guidelines will be examined by the Commission, to actively debate them and also to discuss the necessary changes or additions. So all this is included in this document. I really ask Members of Parliament to support both the first reading and the second reading of this document, because it sets out a clear procedure for how the Cabinet will proceed with these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U35	Thank you. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U36	Colleagues, thank you very much for your explanation. For my part, I would like to ask that the management of the committee responsible ensure that all Members of the Saeima are informed about these guidelines... the start-up of the work on the guidelines so that, indeed, non-members can be able to submit their proposals in good time and participate qualitatively in the work of the panel. But I understand that, yes, a compromise, but we must also bear in mind that, by denying our right to impose, say, their final name to these guidelines, we have now put in place such a reverse order. The Saeima... Well, you say that, Mr Asheraden, nothing will happen without the acceptance of the Saeima, without the acceptance of the Saeima, this document will not be submitted, but the Cabinet of Ministers can already, in a way, not support these proposals of the Saeima. So now there is a reverse order – not the Cabinet of Ministers submits something and the Saeima confirms, but quite the opposite. I think that we have now weakened our role – it is not good, but it is a compromise. And if all Members really get this statement and a high-quality participation in the creation of this document, then we could also talk about the fact that it is perhaps the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U37	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U38	On behalf of the Commission, nothing can be added any more to the procedure by which Members of the Saeima will be able to participate. Both I and Mr Asheraden have already mentioned that I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please, let's vote! 78, against – 1, refrains – not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U40	On behalf of the Commission and on the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, please examine at second reading at the Saeima without re-examination by the committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U41	Thank you. Please open section “Procedures”. Thank you. Please apply to Members who have objections to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible. Mr. Pimenov, you're so opposed, are you? If at least one member of the Saeima objects, the time limit for the submission of proposals and the consideration of the sitting of the Saeima shall be set. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U42	Deadline for proposals – 15 minutes and discussion at the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U43	Are there any other proposals? Please open section “Procedures”. Do Members have other proposals? Members have not applied. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 15 minutes by 16.30 a.m. on 21 July 2020 and for consideration at the next extraordinary meeting. Thank you. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. I'm closing the sitting. I'm sorry, Members' registration. Registration has been successfully completed. Time for notification. Please enable the President of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Mr Asheraden, to inform Members when the Commission plans to sit, and we could also plan our work.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U44	It is true that the commission had hoped today for a second reading. We will convene a meeting as soon as possible when an agreement can be reached with the members of the commission and then notify the Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U45	Yeah, thank you. So we... Or today... Are you going to do this today?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U46	No, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2107-U47	Today – no. Thank you for your clarity. It is therefore clear to all Members that today there will be no fourth extraordinary sittings. Thank you all for your work today. And now I'm closing the sitting.
