ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U1	Honourable Members! We started the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 24 April this year. Members Jušas, Feldmans, Eglitis, Riekstins, Mārtovas, Znotiņš and others propose to shorten the speaking time by debating the issues to be discussed at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 24 April 2020: for draft laws at first reading, speaking for the first time, determine the period of debate three minutes, speaking for the second time – one minute; for draft laws at second reading, speaking for the first time, fix the time for two minutes, speaking for the second time – one minute. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Yes!” ) Please call us! Let us vote in favour of shortening the time of the debate: for drafts at first reading, speaking for the first time, determine the time of the debate three minutes, speaking for the second time one minute; for drafts at second reading, speaking for the first time two minutes, speaking for the second time one minute! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U2	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on reducing the time for debate (first reading, first time, three minutes, second time, one minute; second reading, first time, two minutes, second time, one minute): 59, 19, abstain, 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U3	Thank you. Decision adopted. Consequently, the time for the debate has been shortened, for drafts at first reading, speaking for the first time, setting three minutes, for the second time, for the second time, for drafts at second reading, speaking for the first time, for two minutes, for the second time, for one minute. Let's start looking at the agenda. Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Edgars Kucins. Please turn on the microphone for Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U4	Before the second reading, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers as a matter of urgency. For the second reading, two totally identical Members, Arvil Asheraden and John Wucan... ( The sound is broken.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U5	There's no sound to hear.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U6	Hello! We heard it?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U7	Right now, yes. You should start reporting from the beginning.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U8	Before the second reading, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers as a matter of urgency. For the second reading, two proposals were received by Mr Asheraden and Mr Vacāns, who were perfectly identical. The essence of the proposals is to extend the time limits for accreditation of courses by six months, as proposed in the first reading, but by one year. Vote for 1. - Mr Asheraden's motion, the votes cast were divided into four votes, five against and one abstention. As a result, 1. – Asheraden's proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U9	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U10	Hello, dear colleagues! I call on you to support this proposal put forward by Mr Asheraden. There are several arguments for this, and it seems that the most important thing is the proposal of the Board of Directors and the request of the Board of Directors to postpone accreditation in these Covid-19 circumstances for a year rather than half a year. This is more due to the fact that it is not known whether the borders will be open after half a year, or whether foreign experts will be able to come to Latvia, because presence expertise in this accreditation process is very important. Thus, in fact, so that this deadline for accreditation should not be amended several times, and so that universities have a clear message of the timetable, we call - and I also call - to support this proposal. Secondly. It seems that in this case accreditation would take place... After today's Education, Culture and Science Commission, the Legal Bureau said that it can take place even more quickly. Thus, in fact, even if the restrictions on cross-border movement are removed, this wording does not prevent accreditation from taking place in a faster process. I call for support, first of all, because it is a decision of professionals and... what is concerned. Secondly, it does not interfere with what has already been developed... the timetable for accreditation drawn up by the relevant international accreditation body in Latvia. Now you're adding... It is likely that universities would have time to demonstrate better quality, to include the relevant reports and material distance learning process, which would, of course, increase the evaluation of accreditation internationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U11	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U12	Colleagues! This is a question of the reputation and quality of higher education in Latvia. In Latvia, accreditation of study fields has not taken place since 2012, accreditation had to be two years ago. This issue has been postponed and postponed and, unfortunately, representatives of the Board of Directors also want to postpone it. We need to distinguish between quality and less quality higher education, and we need to go to quality. It is therefore essential that accreditation be carried out as soon as possible. The Ministry of Education and Science considers that this can be done within six months. Of course, if the circumstances do not allow this to happen, we can also cancel this deadline for a later period, but at the moment I am calling for these proposals not to be supported and for them to remain in the version proposed by the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U14	I submitted a proposal in view of the fact that it is... This has been the proposal of the Board of Directors. One. Second. In view of the emergency situation, it seems important to me that the Commission debated this issue... and the Commission debated this. We came to the conclusion that the Ministry was determined to do all of this by the deadline set, so the proposal did not get the Commission's support. So that I call on the Saeima to follow the committee's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U15	Thank you. The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U16	Thank you. Perhaps the argument about a possible drop in the quality of education or otherwise is ultimately out of place. I write it for an inexperienced man. The fact that no actions had been carried out in 2013 (since then)... As I mentioned yesterday, it is, of course, linked to the policy decisions that the Ministry of Education and Science and the Minister for Education and Science have made every moment... has taken it. In this case, this would not be such a thorough argument at the address of the Board of Directors. Once again, I call for support, because the rectors – who is best than the rectors? – firstly, it is responsible for quality and, secondly, it is also supporting the process, but it is well understood that the arrival of foreign experts should be guaranteed, because it is actually paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U17	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Turn on the microphone for Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U18	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Arvila Asheraden's proposal! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U20	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 1: 23, 53 and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U21	Thank you. The proposal is not supported. Please turn on the microphone for Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U22	2. – identical to Mr Wuzan's proposal. Neither was the Commission supported nor put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U23	Thank you. Neither do Members apply to the debate on proposal 2 and it is not a vote. Please turn on the microphone for Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U24	Member Evija Papule applied to speak on proposal 2. I don't know why he didn't show up.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U25	No, we didn't show up like this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: ‘Technical error!’ ) No, we didn't. There was a debate on the identical, proposal 1. Colleagues, well, had the opportunity to apply, too, time was given enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U26	In general, the Commission supported the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Higher Education" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Thank you. Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U28	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” in the second, final reading: for – 79, against and refrains – is not available.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U29	Thank you. The law is passed. Please turn on the microphone for Evia Papulei, who wants to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U30	Thank you, honourable Mrs. Mourniece. I just wanted to call you a little bit again, because I had applied for it, and yet I did not say that I had enough time to do so. That's one. This is not an argument in this situation in which we are working, because we must also have a few minutes of pause. Wait a while, and then you may also have that application. I invite you to follow this. I would not like to remind you several times about this, however, because it is the rhythm of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U31	Thank you, Mrs. Papule. I really call on Members also to follow this rhythm of work, which is in Parliament during an emergency. We also receive information from the medicines that the political groups are working on. Colleagues, I ask and remind you once again: in order for the debate to be correctly presented, all Members, including those who want to talk about the procedure, please use these green pages for applications. And then, as a rule, these applications come to the Saeima's meeting room, and then correctly they are placed on the list of debates. Please, you are also right against those moderators who are in the Chamber and against the Chair of the sitting. Let's keep going. On the agenda – draft law “Amendment to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”, first reading. Anda Čakša, Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U32	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has received from the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Insurance for Unemployment Case”. This draft law provides for the addition of points 23 and 24 of the transitional provisions, where paragraph 23 provides that persons who currently have an unemployment benefit, which is granted from the day on which the unemployment benefit is paid out, for a period not exceeding four months, may receive the benefit as it has been for the last two months, but not more than 130 euros per month. These persons are not covered by compulsory state social security contributions during that period. Paragraph 24 provides that this benefit is to be paid from 12 March until the time the person starts to earn income as an employed or self-employed person, but not later than 31 December 2020. In the Commission, the draft law was debated and unanimously voted on urgency. I therefore ask first of all to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” as urgent! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U34	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Insurance for Unemployment”” as urgent: 81, no one is against and refrains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U35	Thank you. The draft law has been declared urgent. Do Members want to debate this draft law? In the debate, Members have not applied. Please turn on the microphone for the rapporteur Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U36	In the Commission, therefore, the main discussion before the first reading was whether there could be a large difference between the unemployment benefit and the unemployment benefit. I understand that the Commission is also waiting for a proposal from the Ministry of Welfare. That is why I am now calling for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U38	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Insurance for Unemployment” at first reading”: for – 83, there are no votes against and refrains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U39	Thank you. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U40	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes. The request for consideration is today's extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U41	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 13.40 p.m. Review – 24 April. Thank you. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the prevention and management of threats and consequences of a State in connection with the spread of Covid-19” presented by Member Pimenova, Švekova, Rubika, Papule and Dombrovskis” (No. 666/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Igors Pimenovs has applied to speak for’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U42	Hello, honourable President. Hello, honourable Members! Article 13 of the Law ‘On measures to prevent and manage the threat of the State and its consequences due to the spread of Covid-19’ provides for aid to economic operators by exempting them from or by reducing the rent of public property and property of a public limited liability company. Experience shows that several tenants of public property and property of a capital company controlled by public persons are self-employed. The term ‘self-employed’ does not correspond to the term ‘businessman’ within the meaning of the Commercial Law. Consequently, no aid is currently granted to these persons with a norm. In order to prevent this injustice, this draft law, which extends the exemption from the public property of a person and the rent or reduction of the rental fee of a capital company controlled by a public person, has been submitted to the self-employed. I would remind you that the self-employed are natural persons who are registered as compulsory contributors to social security for the pursuit of their economic activity. For self-employed persons, the Law “On State Social Insurance” defines the persons who receive income as sworn notaries, advocates and auditors, practitioners, including family doctors, pharmacists and veterinarians, recipients of royalties, other natural persons who have registered as income tax payers. Therefore, the content of our draft law is to replace the word ‘businessman’ in my titled article of the law with the words ‘economic operator’. Please hand over the draft laws to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U43	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: Yes!) Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” (No. 666/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U44	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” (No. Transfer of 666/Lp13 to the Commission: for – 27, against – 54, refrains – not available.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U45	Thank you. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the law on the prevention and management of threats and consequences of a State in connection with the spreading of Covid-19” presented by Member Rubika, Papules, Kucin, Agešin and Ribakava (No. 669/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U46	Hello, colleagues! The main idea of this draft law is to provide assistance for parents and educators in implementing the distance learning process. Students and their parents use various remote learning platforms to receive training tasks and assessments. Before determining the emergency situation in the country, it was possible to choose whether to use these platforms freely or not. Now, during quarantine, this is a mandatory measure. I'll repeat that it's compulsory, otherwise it can't... There will be no connection with teachers. Since this platform is for a fee that leads to extra costs for parents, I believe that the state must bear these costs from its budget as well as from teachers... It should also be noted that teachers are spending on the implementation of the online distance learning process and on contact with parents. Please support our draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U47	Do Members object to the handover of the draft law... Is that so? Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” (No. 669/Lp13) transfer of the budget and financial (tax) commission, making it a responsible commission! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U48	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” (No. Transfer of 669/Lp13 to the Commission: for - 27, against -56, abstain - None.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U49	Thank you. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Janson, Beitneres-Le Gallas, Leieniņa, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas, Dzintara and other draft laws submitted be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Mr. Ritvars Jansons, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U50	The resistance symbol of the Order of Viesturs Lidija Lasmane-Doronina says: “They fought. I was with them, they were not just funny guys. I would also support them now – those young boys who are going down – because this is one fight. We are one nation. I felt somehow related to all of this. It was simply life, otherwise it could not be.” The period of Soviet occupation in Latvia lasted long years. 1940-1941 From 1944 to 1945. up to the full restoration of national independence in the year 2000 and subsequent stages. It is unique that in such a long period of time there were brave anti-Soviet fighters who did not agree with the occupation regime. The main draft law (like the law “On the Status of Participants of the National Resistance Movement”) is intended to evaluate the merits of those people who, while working on the national resistance movement, participated in armed struggle or by other means fought for the restoration of Latvia proclaimed on 18 November 1918 and donated themselves to defend the people against violence and genocide by the Soviet occupation regime. The day of the anti-Soviet fighters is necessary to remember and appreciate not only the members of the resistance movement who are among us, but also those who have fallen or killed in the fight against the Soviet occupation regime. Please support the referral of the draft law to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U51	Thank you. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U52	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Several Latvians are currently desperately fighting for survival, unemployment benefits, food packages and their quality, fighting against virus and hopelessness, because in the country the Covid-19 crisis benefit system is too complicated and often people cannot understand. People do not hide anger at what is happening in our country at the moment. The draft law, in turn, wants to open a discussion about the law “On holidays, memories and famous days”. In my opinion, it is not the right time for this debate now. It looks like after an attempt to simply distract people from real problems. I therefore call for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U54	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on handover to the commission of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days”: for – 61, against – 14, Abstains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U55	Thank you. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Standardisation” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepiņa, Smita and Gobzema be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U56	Dear colleagues, I will not ask for a vote because I am counting on us having agreed in the past, before the Covid-19 crisis began, that we would all support the transfer of this draft law to the Commission. I just wanted to remind you of what this bill is about. So this is about premature babies, about a new definition. These are children born up to 37 full weeks of pregnancy. In Latvia more... About a thousand children are born prematurely each year, and parents of these children feel discriminated against as regards parental leave and parental benefit respectively. This draft law is aimed at correcting this injustice and extending the period of parental leave and the period of parental benefit for the period during which the child who was pre-born was missing until the date of birth established by the doctor. I will not ask for a vote, I hope that we will be able to proceed with this draft law within the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U57	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Zarina, Dombrovskis, Rubika, Krišana and Tutina's draft law "Amendment to the Law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions" be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “Yes, yes! ” ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U58	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the referral to the commission of the draft law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions: for – 18, against – 56, refrains – 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2068-U59	Thank you. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on support for the European Anti-Fraud Office be submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Register of Accounts” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on International Guarantees for Mobile Equipment and the Protocol to the Convention on International Guarantees for Mobile Equipment on matters relating to aircraft equipment” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. delivered. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Brīvības iela 37B, Ogre, Ogres municipality, for public needs” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be transferred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic of Lithuania” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the maintenance of the Latvian-Estonian state border and the activities of authorised border representatives” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Agreement amending Article 14 of the Statute of the Nordic Investment Bank and amending the Statute of the Nordic Investment Bank” of the Treaty of 11 February 2004 between Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway and Sweden on the annex to the Statute of the Nordic Investment Bank be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. delivered. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Law on the Release of a Natural Person from Debt” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Notary Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Military Discipline” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Military Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, We have reviewed the agenda for the extraordinary meeting on 24 April this year. Notifications. The president of the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, Andris Skride, asks for a statement on the committee's meeting 30 minutes after the end of the agenda of the meeting. I informed you that the Bureau was planning to convene a second extraordinary meeting today. Thank you all for your work. I closed my extraordinary session on 24 April this year.
