ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We will continue to discuss the agenda for the meeting on 13 February. On the agenda: Draft Law on Amendments to the Maritime Code, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U2	Good morning, colleagues! We are working on a document entitled ‘Amendments to the Maritime Code’ (No. 479/Lp13). Three proposals have been received by the Commission for a second reading. All three proposals have been made by the Minister of Transport, Tālis Linkaits. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Transport. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U3	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U4	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Transport. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U5	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U6	And also 3. - a proposal from the Minister of Transport. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U7	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U8	Please, colleagues, support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on the Maritime Code. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U10	Let us wait until 27 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U11	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 February this year. Examination of own-initiative proposals The draft decision “On 11 189 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Help prevent permanent felling and create a park instead of the former bicycletrack “Mars”!” the way forward.’ Member Aldis Adamovičs on behalf of the commission of mandates, ethics and applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U12	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! On 20 January 2020, the Saeima received a collective application from 11 189 citizens of Latvia “Help prevent permanent felling and create a park instead of the former bicycle truck “Mars”!” . On 5 February this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application reviewed this application, in which Latvian citizens are calling for prevention of felling of trees in the area of the former bicycletrack “Mars” in the Liberty Street 207 and are asking to find a solution for the creation of the park in this place. The discussions in the Commission were rather emotional. The representatives of the initiative called for discussion and consideration of public interests when deciding on the acquisition of the territory for the needs of the State Security Service. Deputy Head of the State Security Service indicated exceptions to regulatory enactments regarding public consultation and strict criteria for selecting land and location when planning construction of the building for the needs of the State Security Service. The President of Riga City Council, Mr. Burova, indicated that the municipality has real estate in its territory, which can be transferred to the state, as well as expressed readiness to provide people with accessible green areas for recreation in its immediate vicinity. The representative of the State Joint Stock Company “State Real Estate” informed the Commission about the procedure for offering real estate for the construction of new buildings for the State. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications decided, with 10 Members voting in favour, two against, one abstention and one non-voting, to refer a collective application to the National Security Commission for further evaluation. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Parliamentary roll, the Commission prepared a draft decision “On a collective application of 11 189 Latvian citizens “Help prevent permanent felling and create a park instead of a former bicycle truck “Mars”!” the way forward.’ Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U13	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U14	President of the Saeima! Colleagues! Good morning! I personally did not support this draft decision of the Saeima within the committee responsible. And in the current version, I will not be able to support it today, because the draft decision provides for this initiative to be passed on to the National Security Commission. It should be noted, however, that these committee meetings are closed. And I will explain in more detail. So we're talking about an initiative where... people signed up on the Internet platform and here, collected more than 15 thousand signatures about the building already mentioned in the street of Freedom 207. But this building is about a hundred years old, with the intention of... very special-- felling of planted trees. And it should be stressed that there has been no public consultation on the matter. It is not clear at all what people want to see in this place - whether it is a public building - what is their opinion about the felling of these centenary trees in an environment where these same citizens must live. It is also important to note here that Article 115 of the Satversme provides for such rights for citizens. Our basic law provides that the State protects everyone's right to live in a favourable environment by providing information on the state of the environment and by taking care to preserve and improve it. It is clear to us all that, in this point, the interests of citizens and the right to a favourable environment are faced with the interests of the security service. But that is why there are already public consultations to talk about these things, and that is what the authors of the initiative are asking for. And it should be noted that, although we, all parties represented in Parliament, support and call people to civil activity, there are indeed a number of officials on this issue who have said that... People who have actively wanted to talk about felling trees, about defending their interests, have been referred to as "a handful of people". Does that mean that they should not be heard? And I would stress once again that we are talking about a public consultation that did not happen in relation to the construction of the neighbourhood and the felling of trees. The consultation is part of our regulatory framework. And in fact, this procedure should be followed by everyone, regardless of who the promoters of the project are - whether they are private individuals or public authorities. But we can talk. The Minister of the Interior also took part in the Commission, and he pointed out, as the rapporteur mentioned, to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. 887 ‘List of State Secret Objects’, which determine: information about the planning of national security authorities and the location or location of individual units shall be secret. At the moment, it is very important to stress that this information about who will be in Freedom... What object will be located in the Freedom... is provided in the Liberty Street 207, is secreted, all available. According to our law “On State Secrets” and Information Transparency Law, this information is no longer secret. It must no longer be hidden from society. But then there is the question of whether there is little desire at all to know what people want, what they think, or whether it is simply an arrogant attitude toward society. Because the nature of this public consultation does not need to discuss object design, but we can listen to what citizens think about the development of their environment, and this can be done if they want to. At the same time, there is already a very concrete example in our public space that, in a similar situation, the Ministry of Justice, when planning a special object affecting security interests, has been able to hold a public consultation and listen to the opinion of citizens, including about the felling of valuable trees. You can do this if you want. It is possible to do this. The question is, do we want to. In the Commission, the Minister of the Interior referred to a discussion that had taken place in 2008, when the building of the Riga Regional Court was still to be built at this address, and that there was no objection at that time. Here, however, it must be acknowledged that 2008 is a very special year for us all, a time when the economic crisis started, and it is quite possible that civil activity and the minds of the people were focused on other issues. Indeed, they may not be involved. We are currently talking about a completely different building, about another project, and there has not been a public consultation in the context of this project. The Minister of the Interior also talked about money investments that have already been invested and otherwise... I'm gonna lose it. That cannot be denied, it really would be, but it is not really the only project in which it would have happened. Here I would like to mention the issue of construction of Liepaja prison, which has also been postponed in our term of office and in the course of this government. Around two million euros are lost there, too. Here I will allow a very small derogation. By leaving, for example, such an object (which, of course, is not the issue we are looking at), it has a very direct impact on the security interests of all Latvian society. We are talking a lot about violations of human rights, especially in recent weeks. We're like... Our government has turned to the European Court of Human Rights, calling on the Latvian citizen not to surrender to a country where violations of human rights have been found in prisons, but regrettably, such violations of human rights have also been found in our prisons. At the same time, despite major financial investments already made, the government has refused to continue this project, which is of interest to the security of society as a whole. And more. It is also rather sad that some officials, including the Prime Minister, have tried to shift responsibility to Riga City Council on the subject in an interview on public television. We are talking about a public consultation that has not taken place. We are criticising Riga City Council from the truth a lot and very rightly, but for time we will not be able to accuse them of this particular case, because Riga City Council is not the promoter of the project. The public consultation was to be held by others. But, of course, the Riga City Council has to set up green areas for its citizens, including the Rozau Street, which they have mentioned as an alternative. It is not an alternative; it is simply an alternative for the people in its neighbourhood. But the main problem is that citizens themselves are excluded from any involvement in this process and the opportunity to discuss and discuss how this project will affect their environment. It is very important to note that, when it comes to the Commission to which this project will be referred - if it were to be about the budgetary issues of the security authority, then really the law provides for it to be passed on to the National Security Commission. Then we should. But this initiative is not about money, it is about public involvement, listening to its opinion and cutting down trees in the environment where they have to live. I would also like to stress that, in fact, at the committee meeting, they were not representatives of the initiative, who tried in any way to counter security and public interests. I would rather say that these were fellow Members who tried to highlight this aspect, and that is particularly sad. Society... representatives of this initiative have shown a great deal of understanding that security interests are very important for our country. And I also turn to my colleagues, representatives of almost all parties, who are probably planning to participate in the elections of the Riga City Council that are just ahead. Anyone who calls the public for involvement in this election will want to cooperate with non-governmental organisations, with neighbouring societies, this is our real opportunity to listen to citizens and to express their interest in talking to them and hearing their views! I therefore call for the wording of this draft decision not to be supported, to be returned to the Commission which prepared the draft decision on referral, for example, to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, as I also proposed at the Commission meeting, because this issue concerns the fundamental rights of people in the vicinity of Teika and in the city of Riga. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U15	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U16	Dear President, Honourable Members! I am not about the substance at the moment, but about the process. I want to assure you that the National Security Commission is ready to accept this... these signatures and begin the examination and answer all questions of substance. Because what we hear now is what we hear, analysing the texts of both the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, and previous speakers... all of this consists of different half-truths, assumptions and one moment - lies too, if you can say so. But the Commission has already addressed both State Real Estate and Riga City Council and other participants to receive all this information that is necessary for the analysis of the issue. We will discuss it in several sittings. We have already agreed on hearing experts on the process and history itself, namely history since 2006, with regard to the existence and significance of this plot of land - how this plot of land was intended to be built by the municipality and what was envisaged there and what kind of discussion had been. We'll also listen to architects to understand... The National Security Commission is, in this case, the Commission that can be examined in substance. Yeah... I assure you that the next sitting of the Commission, where we will prepare an analysis of what has been happening up to this day, will be a completely public sitting, in which we will invite both VEFRESH and the Sakta County Society and will listen to all the people who have joined... I would like to ask any of us: if any of you came and said that your house was going to build something next to us in a park, which would not have a signature... Is that so? I would definitely sign. The question is already about the answer... We have the task of answering, and that is why we in Parliament are here to answer the substance and answer every question. And there are questions that will really be known... and the objective law “On State Secret” defines it... will be known, perhaps only to a representative of each political group, a Member who is on our commission. But most of these questions are absolutely answerable without any secret seal, and you will see all these answers and all these analyses. I assure you that the Commission is ready to start proceedings next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U17	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U18	Good morning, dear colleagues! Here I will look a little bit from a different point of view. So it's happened that I lived near this park... next... for more than 10 years, and I know this situation from the point of view of the citizens. Until now, the people looked at this place as a place with hope, passed through the fence and hoped that once this fence would disappear and there would be public space available there (interim: “He will also disappear!” )... Either there's a sink or a park... but hoped that there would be a clean area where people would also be able to enter. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Bergmann and the deposit. E. Pucen’s transcripts.) Now, looking at everything that the process is moving, there could be a fence without hope. Everything is moving towards a fence without hope and without the opportunity for the citizens (Interface.) visit either the park or the sink. And all the more so, by hiding this issue from the people to whom this place is important (and reminding us that there are about 30 000 people in the vicinity of Teika), we all ignore the will and opinion of these people together. Instead of doing so (Dep. J. Iesalnieks: Lithuanian developers! ) to listen to these citizens, we simply decide to build a fence there. Why could there not be a compromise on which the people would be prepared? Even the same regional court building, which previously in this local planning... the detailed plan was to build a building with an accessible sink, where every citizen would have access to a sink... with park elements... a step. But instead, we'll put a fence on. ( Internouncing call.) I think that is wrong. I call for a 'no' vote on this initiative.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U19	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U20	Every day we collect donations: we collect palliative care, we collect children with reduced mobility, we collect the rescue of patients who are seriously ill, we collect the families of the poor (Intersword: “Patients!” We also collect shelters. Wack, we're collecting... because there is not enough money in our common treasury. Do you really think so? Total stupidity! We are just throwing it down now - just nothing plus minus 50 million euros for the most effective prestigious security service in the Baltic States. Not every head of government can be so naive to imagine that the lack of an amazingly expensive and modernly designed house (Dep. I. Intersor of Benhen-Beeken.) is the cause of the criesing failure of the national security cantor. The next stage song can be heard most quickly from the former ZZS Prime Minister Māra Kučinska, the head of the Saeima National Security Commission, that millions have already been spent on the VDD project, the train has already left and there are no further stops, because, you can see, state security is at risk. Such an argument is in substance a post. It is clearly said that if we have already wasted a couple of millions, then from the start we should continue to go until all the government's excess money (about 50 million now) has been wasted to the end. From the former fiscal discipline expert to hear something like that! ( Internouncing call.) A real ZZS worthy working style! And then it is not surprising that there is always a lack of money in the budget for the opposition's excellent proposals for budget wasting. Besides, this here is Kučinskis, but the worst security service controller in the Baltics. Why such a type is entrusted with the management of such an important commission - there is another question, including our coalition partners. It is regrettable that the leading speakers of the word “security” are mentioned, thinking only about personal well-being and not about real work in the interests of the state. How much of this money would be left in the land if donations were replaced by public funds for all the pregnant people? All right! I'm sorry for the hard guys. But what about the national police that have been taken into lack? In the recent TV24 taken by the Ethic Familia, a certain shot was sorry about the very reserved attitude of the police, because, apparently, the police did not run through their necks to help the boy in his problems. Now the police are so far away that there is no longer any need to be sorry, but all kinds of exclusive supervisors, controllers and security guards are catching up and flourishing! ( Internouncing call.) However, those who provide the level of the public safety base are the last line to the supermothers, super equipment and salary supplement. And it's normal with us. Why? For the public or for one of the venerations and fans of warm positions? I certainly know that these 50 million could be a good reflection on improving the day-to-day performance of the police, if the Prime Minister were more demanding and the Minister of the Interior had some little knowledge of the day-to-day work of the police. I would like to remind the Minister of the Interior that saving and talking about public budgets is not and cannot be a threat to national security. This, as the Minister of the Interior had to learn in the meantime. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U21	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U22	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, I supported the draft decision drawn up at the Commission meeting... with the aim that we should have some decision... and refer it to the Commission, the National Security Commission, for further consideration. But it wasn't... At least I did not get the answer to one question: why should the Security Police build a building there and why can't we find another place? One thing comes to my mind: when the U.S. Embassy decided to look for a different place, they found an empty place next to Spicei, where a building was built that meets all the requirements... safety requirements. And I think something similar should be thought of by the Security Police. It seems to me that in the centre of Riga, built in the center, another building corresponding to NATO security... I think... Well, I don't want to say it's impossible, but it's gonna be very difficult... I therefore hope that the members of the National Security Commission will also receive an answer to this question - whether there is an opportunity to build the necessary building that meets all the requirements, elsewhere than in the centre of Riga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U23	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U24	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Of course, we are all a green Riga. However, the pre-election fight in the capital has already begun. And we have concrete examples of such a campaign before us. The fate of hundreds of trees on Brīvības iela 207 is only the reason for even more important intrigue. In particular, the efforts of the New Conservative Party to increase the scope of their powers in the government by lowering the rating of the existing Minister of Interior. But the obvious fact is that the existing minister, Ģirgen, has not taken a decision to build a building of the State Security Service instead of a bicycle rod “Mars”. This was planned by the previous Minister of Unity. Of course, each country has an internal security service, but its location on the central street of the capital is hardly up-to-date. Such a place is questionable from the point of view of the confidentiality of this institution, jeopardises the security of the Authority's information and the personal data of its staff. Congestions on Brīvības Street may also interfere with the movement of operational transport. Construction of a building of the State Security Service must be carried out in a different location from the transport flows and will protect all information. I would also like to add to my colleagues that the construction of a new terminal at Riga Airport is planned to cut 210 trees. And I will recommend that nature defenders from the New Conservative Party also pay attention to this fact.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U25	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U26	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! First of all, it was a pleasure to hear the Members of the New Conservative Party speak about the fundamental values of democracy and the involvement of citizens in the consultation. I would like to remind you that you are in government. You have every opportunity to hold a government so that these principles are respected... and not only by talking about one small territory, where you have heard and listened, but about Latvia as a whole. And listen to the experts at the Council of Europe’s Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, as expressed by international experts (Dep. A. Interdependence of Geodans.) about the democratic processes in Latvia, the way in which discussions are conducted in a much wider territory, that is, throughout Latvia. But it was particularly interesting for me to listen to the address of JPO Member Juta Strike today. Well, I think it was the most regrettable speech I've ever heard. ( GREENS AND ZZS are alluding.) You have just talked about donations that people collect donations. Your government, in which you are now, voted against the palliative care of old age. After that, Pieci.lv collected these donations in a whole public campaign. And what did BIP politicians do? Gay, he's got five! Gay, donated five and photographed immediately after he rejected this proposal - to finance it from the state budget... But what was the UKP’s state budget fighting for? About construction of prison in Liepaja! (Applause) Colleagues with whom is this different from the prison in Liepaja? Think of your speech that you have just drawn from this platform. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike's intermediate names.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U27	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U28	Hello, colleagues! I will try to remind you first of all: when it was the adoption of the budget, we remember very well how Mr Gobzem and Mrs Stepanenko came and warned about 40 million hidden precisely in justice... not justice, but this... building. The UKP was silent. You did not say anything about this amount! Now that the pre-election time has begun, you have discovered miracles! I'll remind you. You are protesting that this building will be built in the apartment area. You go to Jēkabpils! Bordan's recently... even in the summer... The new court building, which is built in the center of apartment houses, came and opened. A bright example. And I will also try to remind you that the Ministry of Justice has been given 500 thousand to form an audit and to analyse why we have had these proceedings for so long. What did you do? You kept the money for the project... You left the prison. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Jušas: “Nemelo!” ) Is that so? Part of you came back, part of you left for yourself to have a prison! Start! (Applause) Next. If we talk from the Ministry of Transport... We're coming and talking beautifully. What am I doing in the meantime? Applications shall be made to initiate any criminal proceedings. Silence. You're not doing anything! You are also insulting the police authorities for not doing anything. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Intersituation of Bhutan. Imposition: “What have you done?” ) As long as you're not doing anything, I submitted to the police... and criminal proceedings are initiated on “Latvian Railways”! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U29	Colleagues, we shall continue the debate. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov. ( Independence: “Give them! Say it!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U30	Good morning, colleagues! I attended a meeting of the commission responsible for the matter. And I appeal to you - to support the Commission's proposal - to refer the matter to the National Security Commission... to the National Security Commission. I would like to talk about two things. One thing is about a plot of land, a park and a building. And the other thing is about national security issues in a broader context. First of all about the building and the park. The situation is quite simple: if there is competition between the park and the building, then either the park or its building needs to be moved. And the situation is made a little spicy by the fact that in order to make the park the idea of a unique one, it really has to be justified. And I will tell you how the supporters of this idea tried to justify in the committee responsible that this park, these trees, are not only unique, but absolutely unique. They said this place... that these trees have survived the Soviet occupation (The Hall of Noise. Thank you. Thank you very much. 1990 and 1990 banditism. Show me one piece of Riga land that has not survived the Soviet occupation and banditism of the 1990s! ( The drug is noise. Thank you very much. Burov had come, and he pointed out that 300 meters further was a plot of land with exactly the same trees, with the same unique ability to survive the Soviet occupation. (Laughter) And now let's think about this. So if we want not only a unique but ultra-unique place, we need to go kiss the moss for the centenary. Well, then, let's go. Feldman: “You are already doing this!” )... and look at what is going on in the face. The issue of national security is being raised. We can criticise that it is our duty as Members to follow national security issues. But if you put a tree on one side with the sons you need to kiss and the security of the country, I say that the security of the country is harmless. And we have an outstanding Minister for the Interior! And our excellent Interior Minister understands what Latvia's reputation in the world means. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: “Excellent?” ; between: “ Bravo!” ) And what I can say is that decisions on this issue have been made responsibly. Mr. Girgen, as Minister for the Interior, makes us proud. And he's under attack (Depp. J. Strikķe: “Ambitions to State Security!” )... Well, probably come from Sputnik. And I'm ashamed to see that our cooperation partners at the coalition at this moment are in their hands on the issue of SASKARIS, which is a direct attack on Latvia's security. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike’s intermediate call.) Please vote with the Commission, refer the matter to the National Security Commission. ( The drug is noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U31	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U32	I listen and wonder - it seems to some people that it is something so volatile and disappearing. And that the people of Latvia - they are not the security of Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzema and the depot L. Liepiņa’s intersaxes.) Of course, Latvian citizens do not matter to them; some service is important to them. I will tell you: citizens (Integrated.) ... citizens are ready to compromise, but citizens need to be talked to instead of secreting every issue. Publicly we're all smart... We can support and say, “Yes, we support you, but let us not talk to you further.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “To see, Butan!” ) Why can’t you talk to people? The people are ready to compromise. The earlier trees, 300 meters [300 m] away. I know these trees well. Personally I am (Laughter) ... Personally, I have written an application to the Riga City Council for cleaning up this territory, to which the Riga City Council, including Mr. Burov, who was in power, wrote that it was not their business and that they did nothing to clean up or install there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: "How many years have you lived there?" ) But why then it is not possible for this discussion with the population - or this territory to open, build partially, completely... Or move the park elsewhere? No, no! Instead, we want to keep secret, not to speak and forget. I hope that the people will watch this and appreciate what they have. — Insight. representatives of the people who do not listen to the people. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U33	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U34	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, What I will say will probably not fit into this pre-election climate, where we can probably talk about every proposal and make a show, but I call on you to remember that today we are voting in favour of the draft decision ordering the National Security Commission to evaluate the citizens' initiative. In fact, we are moving the citizens' initiative further. So - if we vote 'yes', we put this initiative to the Commission for consideration if we vote 'no', then we do not refer it to the Commission. At the Commission meeting at which the draft decision was drawn up, discussions... There was no discussion about whether this issue could be passed on to the National Security Commission or the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Most of the commission... Consequently, the majority of the members of the Commission considered that, if the security aspects were to be assessed, if the location of the building was to be assessed, the importance of the building was important from a purely national safety point of view, then the greater expertise and less pre-election show, which was not necessary for the event, would be within the National Security Commission. Therefore, of course, Members cannot be prevented from debating and preparing pre-election clips, but if we are talking about the substance of this particular issue, then I am calling for a 'yes' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U35	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U36	Dear colleagues, The honorary-sleeping princess of the UKP, who has finally awakened and talked about the voice of the people! Dear colleagues! Where have you been at the time of the adoption of the budget?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Applause) (Laughter) Dear colleagues, where were you when we discussed MyaBalss.lv's initiative on stopping party financing?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Colleagues! What are you trying here to talk about, that there are people at last... Yes, people are asking... ManaBalss.lv is asking to focus on many issues in many initiatives, but you highlight this because it is important for you at the moment Riga, which you have now set as a target by the Law on Financing of Political Organisations (Parties) and the law on dismissal of the Riga City Council. Colleagues! Is it really not ashamed that you know different trees and everything else?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Colleagues! I think that there is really no more shame, as it sounds here today, from the tribunal, on your part, calling people with reduced mobility, calling again the same will of the people. Colleagues! People with reduced mobility, whom you yourself in this budget denied the possibility of more support from the people who work with them. Pieci.lv movement. The same as my colleagues have mentioned. You're such a double guy as I think you've never seen before. So stay still! I think it's better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U37	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U38	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine this debate in a context where colleagues in the JCC could have obtained their own person as the Chief Executive of the State Security Service. Can you imagine this debate if the JCPOA had succeeded in obtaining the Minister of the Interior... or at least to control Mr. Girgen... That doesn't work. I think it would be quite indifferent to Mr. Butane's romantic walk along the farm (Laughter) and the fact how well he knows every tree and what he has done with those trees or land. So that's the most important question... The subject has now been found on which, as they say, the unscrupulous head of the service, in their opinion, and the Minister. It's short about it. But, of course, which thing isn't black or white? And there's one problem here. You don't have to try to cover things that don't have the theoretical ability to be secret. The fact that there will be a service building somewhere, where it will be, can't be secreted. Of course, we have things that we do not need to know for everyone, especially our inexperienced ones. But where the building will be - it's probably not a secret. And it actually brings this public response. This is logical and needs to be balanced. It's this secretion that creates this here... the type of debate we have today. In my opinion, this does not in any way indicate our collective reason and the ability to debate security issues in the way in which they should be debated, nor does it in any way indicate... has not contributed to the security of Latvia. So I also support the referral to the National Security Commission. That is where the question must be discussed. Of course, people's initiative must not be, as it were, unheard of. But, of course, all the circumstances and previous investments in this process, such as those in previous governments, must be balanced. I hope that, on these issues relating to security, we are able to ensure some continuity in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U39	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U40	Good morning, colleagues! First of all, I would like to ask you for your stormy applause at Atim Zakaistov and Kaspars Ģirgen for their excellent presentation, which was today. But... I understand that you don't want to give them the tempestuous applause because they're in a coalition. But I'm going to go on with what else I figured out. I understood what the KNP programme would be like for the Riga City Council elections. I can now quote it (Interface: “Start!” “ Good morning, trees, as I love you all! Good morning, trees, without you, I can't! I need to see two trees every morning, without two trees even the tram does not move.” It'll be the whole BIP program, because John Butan of the BIP knows the trees well, in Teika he smelled each of them. But you know the budget very badly. You know the budget very badly! And in this respect, I have to go back to the budget debate that was. I would like to call on the UKP to remember, and perhaps regret, that at that time you reduced the opposition's ability to speak about the budget... One minute. Because, as you do not know the budget yourself, the opposition talked about the budgeting of these issues at the time of the adoption of the budget. I personally spoke about it, I spoke about it, Jūlija Stepanenko, talked about it, Mr Valaiņš, talked about it... I also think Dana Reizniece-Ozola talked about these issues. Then you were indifferent because there were no elections to the Riga City Council. Now this is a topical question for you. But I would like to say that your minister, who should take away the permission, - Janis Bordan - had all this information available at that time about where the building will be located and what buildings will be built. Did he build some crazy thing at that time? No, he didn't. Because he didn't know the budget. And that's why, if you get to the Riga City Council, I'll have a really big, big worry that you don't know what budget figures are. You're... The only thing you can admire is a tree like Mr. Butane, and that's all. That is your political action. You care about people. You say that you, Mr. Butane, will immediately release 1,500 or 2,500 people on the railway. You care about them obviously, so you'll let them go, huh? You care about people? How did you vote in the budget for doctors, or for teachers, or for disabled or large families? You people care! The only thing you care about is that... you already wanted to build that building, because then you would have an opportunity to get some otcats at the front of Yurash. And the experience is already - the freeport where the wife of Jušas was nominal director for 4,000 euros. That special job was made for her! Specials! And that's the case here. What is your interest in whom you love? You're just interested in money... as Mr Bhutan, who receives a parliamentary secretary a little more than a Member and still demands compensation of EUR 40 for taking a bus. Because he's not enough with those 3000 that he gets at the Ministry of Transport. Money is the only thing you're interested in... Not people, not state security, not everything else. But if we are talking about the building itself, I agree with Digijs Schmidt that, of course, it is objectively absurd that the place where the building will be built itself is a state secret. That's... it is a testament to the state's secret, not to the state's secret. At that time it happens that currently the state secret is that the State Security Service is located near the Daugava Sports House or that the Constitutional Protection Bureau is located near the Great Cemetery. Then it is also a state secret. That's exactly the same thing. This is, of course, absurd, because in Latvia the biggest secret of the state is that there is in fact no such secret. And one more thing. This... This indignation is about an area that has historically been designed to be built. As a man, I am, of course, against the fact that security services must be located near the Freedom Monument or in the centre of Riga. I think that a much safer situation would be if they were in someone, I don't know, in a field where everything is far and beautifully transparent, where you can't just let drones go, and so on, that the city centre is not the best place. However, if it has already been historically planned, and if there has already been construction planning there, it has already been historically... and just because the adjacent home developer has lied to the buyers of these apartments, saying that he will build a park there in a particular place, even though he has not been entitled to it, it does not make this house developer better than the security services, which have consistently worked on this issue for a year from now. If you continue to fight for human well-being in this way, the UKP, then it will be, Mr. Butan, as you said, that people from Latvia will disappear, that this is some kind of playful matter, and that is what it is. In Latvia, people are a volatile matter, and they are vanishing out like you, Member Butan, who receives a bigger spirit in the post of Parliamentary Secretary. But at the same time, we have almost half as far as rail transport is concerned. You should give up on that alley, because the achievement of your job is that you will let people go, that transit is over. And now your achievement will be that you're using the State Security Service from the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U41	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U42	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Well, remember if someone writes us letters and if 11 189 people (whether they are Rigans or citizens) have sent us a letter that they have the desire to do something there. It's written to us here... 12. Two tablets were restored to the Saeima, which stated: “The sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia.” It's a nation... chose and typed the letter. They want it. If we look at what happened there 113 years ago. It was the people who bought the land for the donated money to build the Mars bike. And it was built... served until 1985. It was burned during World War I, then restored; it was also restored in 1975. There were famous athletes who grew up there, and it was also a joy. In Latvia, before the Second World War, there were 10 bikes and 10 bikes. Now, as you know, there is no one and there will probably be no one. That's history. So maybe let us do what our people want. Listen to the salt! We have a Petitions Commission, which, in all likelihood, almost always rejects all applications. Well, we listened to what the people were talking about! You don't have to go against the people all the time. You need to count the money! We were told by the Prime Minister that this budget was the greatest, but there was a lack of money. And if we want to cut down trees in the residential district of Teika, which was built instead of the stadium... Unfortunately, there is no park there. No park was created. This was the detailed planning, the agreed project. They built many houses... On the one hand, on the other hand, the way... With dogs or with children there is no place to walk, there is nothing to breathe there. And also in the largest budget of Latvia, which is 10 billion... We need to remember that we need to count money. Right, Marty? Why do you have to count? We're back 15 more years ago! When we started building the new building of the Ministry of the Interior, the first project was 28 million lats. The “New Time” came to power in 2002 and said: “No, too expensive, let’s build cheaper. We are going to make a new competition!” We made a new competition, we built for how much? About 53... I guess... million lats. Very cheap! Double-cost! We do not need such cheap projects in Latvia. Because we don't have any money. On property management. When we built that building of the Ministry of the Interior, many of the buildings were released, which are still empty. The same cheque house stands empty, where there was always its authorities directly... meet those requirements for the safety service. Please, maybe we'll move over to the check house, we'll fill out... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. On Čiekurkalna Street there are also empty houses belonging to the Ministry of the Interior, which has no money to restore... the second and the third round... which were foreseen in the original project. There, behind the fence, on the same Ezermalas street also, where the Ministry of Defence is... Where was the Police Academy... There are also huge empty buildings standing there. We want to build more, more, more. Let's think about our budget, Latvia, and our people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U43	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U44	Good morning, colleagues! It is, of course, interesting that, at a time when we are even public hearing almost every week that the State Security Service has taken part in an operation or otherwise directed against the state's welfare, such a massive blackmail campaign has been launched against our State Security Service. It was not the State Security Service that decided that they needed to build a building exactly where trees were growing right now. It was offered to them by ‘State Real Estate’ and (Dep. A. Gobzem: “John, don’t look... “)... Of course... It's interesting that here's here... And the representatives of the harmony, as well as the public space Burovs, tell us that the park could be located here and the State Security Service could be located in any barn we have in Riga. But it was the Riga City Council that had for years planned all plans that this territory is a construction site. And the Security Service has now become hostage to this plan and that certain Lithuanian investors benefit from park here. I understand, of course, that the New Conservative Party has a savage hatred with the Union of Greens/Farmers, but there should not be any pre-election for populism to be subject to the interests of national security, which is the case here. We are discussing at this point that the matter is to be decided by the National Security Commission, chaired by former Prime Minister Kučinski. Remember, at his time, it was NATO partners who finally started to participate more in training here and came in with their military equipment (Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola bell.) ensuring security of Latvia! And it shouldn't be that at the moment we are in different, let's say coalitions in the Saeima, use against... to use some kind of pre-election in a populism by attacking the Union of Greens/Farms or Kučinskis, because it is clear that I personally do not fear that Kučinskis will not be professional enough to decide on this issue. Here we don't have to share in a coalition... in opposition. Here we all have to think together about national security interests, not some kind of pre-election populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U45	Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U46	Good morning, colleagues! Indeed, listening to many of those who spoke today is a real shame for what I heard about the attitude of Latvia (Dep. A. Gobzem’s intermediate names.) , against the society of Riga, against those people who have submitted this collective application to the Saeima. I have not heard such a cynically unacceptable attitude, to be honest, before. In my opinion, what is mistakenly tried to present today is an attempt to counter state security interests against the interests of the inhabitants of a Riga microdistrict in a pleasant environment, after the park. This discussion would not have taken place at all if this process had been carried out wisely - as is acceptable in a democratic country. There would be a public consultation, these representatives of society would be invited to dialogue, we could listen to one side, the other side and choose the best solutions. There are examples. In a similar situation we have a Constitutional Protection Office with a specific territory. We all know very well where this area is planned. There has been public consultation, dendrologists, various other... other stakeholders for whom it was important to participate in this process. This territory is included in the UNESCO list, everything is harmonised, a normal, democratic process has been implemented. If such a process were to be applied in a similar way in this case, dear colleagues, today we would not waste time on destructive negotiations without trying to blacken each other, to cast all kinds of shit over each other's heads. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Who did it?” ) What I think needs to be remembered here. We are used to the fact that everything relating to national security authorities is secret. That's not the case! That's not the case! I call, however, for this particular proposal to be rejected for the referral of this collective application to the National Safety Commission. I believe that a much more meaningful conversation, in which all stakeholders can be attracted, could be conducted precisely within the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. In my opinion, this specific situation around this building of the State Security Service has shown that we are very far from the democracy in which I would like to be. For an excellent example, I can mention the above-mentioned Minister for the Interior, whose actions are comparable to those of the Minister for the Interior of a totalitarian country, who threatens anyone who opposes, anyone who has a different view than the State Security Service or the Minister for the Interior, with red maps, threatening to collect information. ( Interferences of KPV LV of Fraction.) You know, in any democratic country, the Minister of the Interior would, after such expressions, demitise. Fucking tree driven! ( The utterances: “Start with yourself! ” ; “Stop the mandate!” Thank you very much. I invite you to do this. — Dep. A. Gobzema and the depot K. Interdependence of the Girgen.) ... I invite you to listen to the offer of the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice has long offered the State Security Service building a territory that is much more suitable than currently chosen in Brīvības iela. ( Milestones.) This specific offer includes both the infrastructure necessary for the State Security Service and the possibility to preserve this territory, where the park could be built, and at the same time allows to iconominate a huge amount of money. I call for reasonable action. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U47	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U48	Dear Saeima! Some want to get a building in another place, others, or applicants, want to keep trees. In fact, however, its biggest problem is rather imprecise and unthinkable planning of Riga's cities, and in this respect, the stone is not in the direction of the year SAVE, but even in the earlier period. Because we remember this quarter, which is about, where the luxurious buildings of New Teika are currently in the column - it was a public space, there was a huge green area with a stadium, with a skate in the winter period; it was struck by a large number of industrial buildings, production buildings. And then, as a result of privatisation, everything came down to the printing of the residential quarter between these many industrial buildings. And it really seems interesting to me - what would happen after a few years with collective submissions if Latvia, for example, decided that we would not buy trains from Spain or from elsewhere, but we would produce them on the spot - in the Riga Vagon construction plant. In a way, the residents of the new Teika have been lucky that in recent years the Riga Vagon construction plant has not actually worked, as well as many other production facilities are quiet enough. But if this economic activity increases, there will be new collective submissions - about noise and many other things. That is why we must also look at this issue with enough criticism... that suddenly the territory, which had long-planned buildings and which, according to all logic, can also have... that now it's all... Well, the whole measure is pulled in different directions. If we are talking about mistakes, the greatest mistake was that the huge green area where the New Teika is currently falling. It was a territory that could have been left by the inhabitants of the nearby neighbourhood, and then no one would have trouble searching for a place of recreation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U49	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U50	Only three brief remarks, which slightly prove the doubleness. Its comments are as follows: The construction of Liepaja prison will not have to be cut down, I understand that. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Only in Teika, there the trees have to be cut off. Where you wanted the Liepaja prison, well, probably because of your otkats... There's no trees... For construction of Liepaja prison there has been public consultation, if? That all people agree and everyone wants to have a prison there, and so on... All the linguists are supersatisfied with this thing. That's the second sign of duality. The third thing is a sign of duality. And I would like to make this remark against the President of our Saeima, Ināra Mūrnieki. I would, however, call... When a Member, Jurash, uses a rather rough statement from a tribunal (Dep. J. Interdependence of the trader.) However, I would also call for the hammer to be used in that case. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U51	Comments on the Chair of the sitting shall not be admissible. I also call on you, Member of Gobzem, to read the parliamentary roll of order. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “I invite you to read the Rule of Conduct and ensure order in the Saeima!” ; dep. S. Riekstins: “Then you have to be removed!” ) Name of Member Artus Nemiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U52	Colleagues! I... I'm even about gasolinetank. I'm on the LMT. Because I think I don't need to mix the LMT off if there's a security service building there. LMT is higher than the state... I hope that the LMT will continue to be higher, if there is a house; then it will be possible from the top, let us say Mr Binde, to see what is going on inside that territory. That's how it works, well, according to logic. But actually, I'm... It's from Tess, if it's fair. In fact, I even wrote that petition, not knowing at all the perimeter we are talking about here - about the interests of citizens, builders... We do not even know who the builders will be. When we find out who those builders will be, who will tolerate them. ( Internouncing call.) Maybe. But I don't know, Mr. Butane, about this farm, the trees you mentioned. It is already about the fact that it is simply a dead area, and I can't see why there should be some kind of structured building of special importance there if it's just... How many people? 11 189 people have signed for... Okay, let's talk. Who elected you? Are you yourself? No, no. Maybe a lot of them. Perhaps the thoughts of a giant from Turaida, who has a 100-year-old son growing up in his own house - and that's true... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) If you put this building next to your house, you wouldn't be happy. You're not happy in that case. And it is not right for a giant to be disgusting about society that they have not been able to defend their thoughts. — Dep. (Text with EEA relevance) Commission of Mandate, Ethics and Application! They don't... they don't deserve it because you're just teaching... ( Internouncing call.) Here, I offer... I offer in an open manner... In the National Security Commission, everything is fine. Only one thing is that, after the protocol, the parties invited there must sign a paper that they must not disclose information. It's about wanting people to understand what they're talking about. In the National Security Commission, the protocol demands that this is the case. That's why it's about... replace the commission - only for it. In this case, the National Security Commission will not be able to get into other people from outside; it will not be an open meeting of the Commission. It cannot be an open meeting of the Commission at the National Security Commission. Well, you can't, even after Order Roll can't! You say... Well, you... Well, it can't be! Because of the existence of the State Security Service. ( Internouncing call.) Because there's secret information. ( Interface: “May be! ”) ) That is just what we are talking about, Mr. Kučinski! Without talking to the hall, will you have open sittings? Don't look at me because we don't talk! Will you have open sittings? ( Internouncing call.) I asked you: are you going to have open sittings now? ( Milestones.) Open sittings Very good! Very good! Very good! Very good! ( The box “Do not talk to the grass! ”) ) And then more. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Mr. Mūrniece, where is your hammer?” ) I do not understand in any way that Latvia has already spent around two million euros to make this project where there is nothing. That money has been spent, but nothing has been done there. Is it in some folders? Is it really cost two million? This has already been done. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valaiņš’ intermediate call.) No, I just wonder how fine it can be to take away two million euros, because when I saw this petition in ManaBalss.lv, I had no information about two million euros, nor about which parties... What's going on... and that's why I'm saying: I'm on petroltank, who's gonna have to close up there. It's the only principle there! And more - The residents of Teika always know very well how the clock is, because there is a clock on the top of the LMT. Now it's going to happen that LMT won't be there. I don't think it's worth it. That is why I am also thinking of openness. These two issues will be examined. And if that's what my classmate Viesturs Celmiņš says, to whom I've always trusted, who is a very honest man who was on this commission and whose thoughts gigantly shouted on the surface of Turaida... Right here from the pub... then, in this case, I will absolutely support Viesturs Celmiņš. And I don’t care if there’s Burov or not, or if there’s “congregation”, National... I don't care what... No, I am talking about this: openness, only. People want to understand, and you laughed. That's it. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem's intermediate call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U53	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U54	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, If we also see the first part of this collective application title “Help prevent permanent felling”, there is no question about the existence or absence of a VDD building. Here people hurt the heart that during the construction process could, yes, disappear trees. Of course, now is the idea of building a park! But modern technology allows a variety of solutions, including that trees may not be cut off. There is a so-called transplant. We have just seen - in Riga it is implemented where the depot building is being built: with a special technique comes, the tree is being dug out in a gentle manner and replanted in a different place. If we really care that there are those centenary trees with a great history that have gone through the occupation... and for different ages, they can be replanted in a different location. Of course, this whole issue is about and about a discussion - a discussion with the public. But I would not like to see that the collective submissions are, as one Member said out of this troupe, well, the opportunity to talk. You know, we can talk, we don't have to be in the Saeima. We can meet people, voters, discuss things. Here, it is clear that the aim is to achieve some sort of solution. I think that we should not go far beyond this debate; we should hand over the commission. The Commission is, of course, in a status that prevents public meetings from being held. But I think collective application representatives can also confirm their... take part in this meeting and discuss it, subject to the provisions of confidentiality. But now... As one well-known man told me, closing your eyes and no one will see you. I think we don't close our eyes here, we're looking at us, we're being watched by the public. And let's end by biting between the parties, who's right, who's right, who's wrong! May the commission address this issue! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U55	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U56	During the debate in the press, there was also the information that money had now been invested, that we could not cancel it... As Neighbours announced today, 2 million have been invested. I don't know what. I didn't see how the building there would look and how high it would be. But while working as a member of the Riga City Council from 2001 to 2005, I... I work in both the Education Committee and the Development Committee, where I have also examined - already then! - this question. But then there was the idea of having a prosecutor’s office there. But the prosecutor's office was built on Abrene Street, and that question fell. There was also a member of Riga City Council (now he is no longer a Member) Jānis Misa, who was the director of the gym “Daugava” that fought for the “Mars”... The bikereck “Mars” would be there... Unfortunately, he failed to implement it... But the protests were near Riga City Council - people stood with posters, protested... Take and read the newspapers of that time, and you will see... Well, it's not that nobody's... that only now, when the project is ready... Because people were always about to have a bikereck “Mars”. Thank you. So you don't need to...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U57	I closed the debate. Will there be anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Will it be? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Adamovich: “It won’t be!” No, it won't. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “About 11 189 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Help prevent permanent felling and create a park instead of the former bicycletrack “Mars”!” the way forward’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 71, 18, abstaining - not. Colleagues, the decision has been made. Ladies and gentlemen, amendments have been tabled to the agenda of the sitting. Members Feldman, Kaimiņš, Riekstins, Cielēns and Eglitis are asked to exclude from the agenda of the sitting the draft decision on the approval of the composition of the Central Land Commission. Mr. Gobzem, will you talk about it or 'no'? For or against? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “On”! ‘ Against’! Whatever!” (Laughter) Well, we do not have the opportunity to speak "no matter". Then “for” or “for”? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “The Against!” ) Aldis Gobzems, a Member, has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U58	What I wanted to say. You see, this is an example of the moment when Ģirgen Kaspars and Zakaitistov said very precisely about the BIP in their face, as it is, the BIP is beginning to make an act of revenge - a personal move of revenge! - Wittenberg. And that is unacceptable - in Parliament to deal with matters in this way. We can argue about ideas, not personally turn to Wittenberg. I've had a lot... and I have also criticised Wittenberg from this troupe - you know that very well. But personal revenge simply because one group has a different view than you do - it proves that you are not worthy of being in Parliament, members of the JPKP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U59	“About” has applied to speak Member Artuss Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U60	This is not true, as the previous Member has just said, because in fact this issue was already on the agenda of the previous sitting (Dep. L. Liepiņa: “What are you talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “)... and I had questions. I had questions about the fact that this committee, the Central Land Commission (Interface: “Lies!” ), in itself a measure as such... I have heard from Mr Wittenberg over a year so that his commission is not needed at all. John! And now it's just... Well, also about those videos that have been in Facebook, and so on. Wittenberg does and does, everything is cool. I agree, okay. But, but! And I do not have this answer, and this answer is very, very interesting to me. If we are talking about fiscal conservativeism, which means “saving” in the language of the people (common people, then I have a question and you will have a very good opportunity to come and say, because... Is it true that, in the end, your salary here in the Saeima will be sublime the same as that of the Prime Minister or the President of Latvia, given that you, as the head of the commission, the Member, also the chairman of the composition of this committee here, who... The nearly €600 bonus is available. You're the one... You didn't know? That's why we already want to remove... outside, to discuss this issue again in the Commission... or come and say, “All I refuse this bonus.” That's... That's the question, is it really, John Wittenberg?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Interreferences from the CPV of the fraction.) Because the question is, are you... Maybe... Well, you know what this is about? Just about that, come, say, "I refuse." That's it. Fine, let's go! That's the thing. That is what this question is about. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Bergmanis’ intermediate call.) If you say, you can't come to go ahead now. But when will... for your election, then please come and tell me you're giving up. And this is absolutely acceptable to me, because you have said yourself that the commission has to shut down. But it does not cost, in my opinion, EUR 6000 per year in fiscal conservativeism, or austerity, or... Which one you're acting as a representative now. That is the question. Thank you. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U61	Colleagues! On the procedure - I call on no one to come here to say something about or against, or to explain something. One Member talks about the changes to the agenda, and the other one speaks against. That's it. Where questions are raised, they may be referred to one another or at a meeting of the commission. Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote to exclude the draft decision on the approval of the Central Land Commission from the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 13 February this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 16, for - 48, for - 5. The draft decision shall not be withdrawn from the agenda of the sitting. Members Feldman, Kaimiņš, Riekstins, Cielēns and Eglītis are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Jānis Vitenbergs as Chairman of the Central Land Commission”. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “You can cancel the signature and go ahead... ?” ) The signature may come from the hold and be withdrawn. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “What is it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, “ The name to Member Artus Neminis is therefore a procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U62	Dear colleagues, I withdrew the signature so that we can move forward so that Mr Wittenberg can come to the table.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U63	Therefore, this signature has been withdrawn. No proposal for amendments to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima shall be considered. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision on the approval of the composition of the Central Land Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U64	Good morning, colleagues! We consider the draft decision on the approval of the composition of the Central Land Commission. According to the Land Commission Act, the composition of the Central Land Commission is approved by the Saeima. The last amendments to that law have reduced the composition of the Central Land Commission to nine members, including only two members of the Saeima. The Act provides that the date of expiry of the Central Land Commission is 30 June 2021. Therefore, the committee responsible has prepared the draft decision and is asking to approve the Central Land Commission in the following composition: Jānis Vitenbergs - Saeima Member; Atis Lejiņš - Saeima Member; Judīte Mierkalne - Delegated representative of the State Land Service; Jānis Eglīte - Delegated representative of the Ministry of Agriculture; Arminas Skudra - Delegated representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development; Ramonas Berzins - Delegated representative of the General Prosecutor's Office; Sproģe - Delegated representative of the Latvian Municipal Union; Edgars Pastor - Delegated representative of the Riga City Council; Iveta Freiberga - Delegated representative of the Central Land Commission. Please approve the Central Land Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U65	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U66	Hello! It is interesting that the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy gave the impression that the members of the Central Land Commission would not receive any remuneration. And, as I understand it, those in charge - the President and the Vice-President - will not be paid... or it will be very symbolic. I was impressed that the reward would be very symbolic. Last afternoon, I got... began to receive information (also from Members of the Saeima) on the existence of... in fact is stipulated in another law that was not discussed at all in this... By adopting these two draft decisions (Rules 31 and 32 of the agenda) at the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, this was not discussed... It turns out, for example, that the chairman is entitled to a premium or a reward, or... Like there's... Including... Well, to the Saeima Member, 80 percent of the average monthly salary of the past year ( well, something like that, I might be wrong to quote). Such a case was not discussed at the commission meeting. I also have questions about all these other members of the Central Land Commission. I know that our aim is to eliminate this relic, which is, I understand, from the nineties, as soon as possible. I am not in a position to support this draft decision on the creation of a land commission with sixteen officials and also a couple of Members, now that the circumstances have changed and I believe that I have been deceived personally... All due respect to Mr. Leijs! He'd probably be one of the few to go to that commission, by the way... I cannot, of course, also support the election of the President, because on that point - on the amount of the salary, the premium - I was concrete... In particular, I was lied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U67	Colleagues! We should stop in three minutes. The Bureau has a proposal to discuss the agenda of the sitting (from the UK Group: 'We, too!') ) and then go 30 minutes apart. Are there any objections? There is no objection. So we are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U68	I'm going to go on with the double suit. Cryyan Feldman! I read on 12 February 2020... a letter signed by you to the Saeima Bureau. You are a member of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy... The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks the Saeima to amend the order of the relevant working session and to include the issue of the Central Land Commission and the election of Wittenberg. As a member of the Commission, you are the one who signs the draft decision. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) ... as a member to move it. As a result, what happens? You're saying you didn't know. A member of the Commission President knows nothing about what is happening in his commission! Like you don't know the budget... that there is budgeted for the construction of the house accordingly, if? You never know anything. You're saying, "Two Coss." You say, yeah, Wittenberg will get something... some kind of consideration. I am sorry, Mr Feldman, to go to the bar and say that Butan, in addition to his Saeima salary, receives a salary as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport and that is not enough for him! ( Interface: “Not an extra, but one! ” ) He still needs a refund of €40! ( From the UK Group: “Stop being envious! ” ) He is not enough with EUR 3000. Others live in poverty, but he needs more compensation! Why didn't you come, Mr. Feldman?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now you're climbing into the platform and trying as always to fool people, as you're deceived as a member of the commission chairman! What are you doing in that commission? Let's go! Just like in the Ministry of Transport, where all transit has already ended, where all traffic on the ground goes. It's real! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U69	The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U70	Hello, colleagues! Congratulations on the start of the wish and... the beginning of the elections, and it will be interesting to see how it will evolve further. But there's a lot of information about the commission itself. I have no information about the salary, and I have never heard anything about it until now. So, Mr. Feldman, I'm going to watch what's going on there. But about the Central Land Commission itself. We decided in the Commission and thank colleagues for their support by looking at this... a commission. They've been working since 1992. It's been almost 30 years, and actually all the big work has been done. There's only nothing left, and then it has to be done... and we were also initiators. I remember how we spoke in the Commission - for as little time as possible - and what was also asked by the Commission and the parties involved in the State Land Service - to set this year. Basically... I also do not have a strategy to introduce any news here and make any huge adjustments if you support and allow it to lead. In essence, this work is about closing this commission, installing documents in boxes, carrying them to the State Land Service. I chose and recommended assistant Atis Lejiņš, because Atis is diligent, as well as foreign Latvians, experienced many of these things. I think together we will do this within a year. You're talking about money things here. We have spent 100,000 years a year with the Central Land Commission. So thank you, colleagues, and if you support me, I will be grateful. Otherwise, well, let's look for another manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U71	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U72	The Central Land Commission was, of course, already at the time of the adoption of the budget. And there was quite a great deal of consensus in the entire parliament that this commission should be abolished, but, Krišjani, it really... When we talk about works, then in this case that someone should run this Central Earth Commission, then it's very simple to work... Mr. Wittenberg, Mr. Leiens, then let them go and work. But at the moment when the money question comes out that there's still a salary, it's right colleagues on the platform and goes: "No, but this issue needs to be reviewed!" Well, colleagues, that's kind of funny. If we work, we work! If you just want money... This is where Mr Gobzem mentioned what your policy is. For example, votes on the salaries of Members of the Saeima. Everyone has a haughty vote. Very beautiful! But some Members, however, choose to get their parliamentary secretary's voice... However... because this vote does not apply to it. Well, colleagues, let's... Let's think about the works! And in this case, really, Krisjani, you get salary in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for the work you are doing. Do your job and find out what you are signing!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U73	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U74	Colleagues, very briefly. Member of the Commission, Mr Feldman, has told us from the platform that he has been misled. I think that the commission chairman has enough opportunity and resources to avoid being misled so that he can understand the substance of the matter and not to sign documents that he does not understand. That is why this responsibility for a member of the committee head is quite high - together with remuneration. I think you don't deserve this post... in this position, if you allow yourself to put in front of you the papers that you have to sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U75	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U76	Thank you for the sanctifying instructions and the hypocritical texts I heard regarding how I should carry out my duties as a public official. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko and Mr Depp. L. Liepiņa’s intersaxes.) Yes, I wrote this draft decision on behalf of the Commission (I think both) because I really am a member of the chairman of this Commission and I have to ensure that the committee works as I understand it. And in this case, Mr Wittenberg was talking about it, and it would be rather silly to make him sign up for his own draft decision, so I did it to discuss the substance of this issue in the democratic process here in the Saeima. That's my duty, and that's why I did it. And that's why, instead of being there, I'm fighting like there's... or my signature on that paper is or isn't there, or there's... whether it can be withdrawn or what... but we submitted - there are five signatures! - so that you can be removed from the commission and see again in the normal way. But the work of the commission must not be disrupted, nor will it be disrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U77	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U78	Whatever Krišjānis Feldman would say from this tribunal, it is quite clear to the entire parliament that it is simply a bad revenge to the CPV LV. If, working in the same commission... Mr. Feldman works with Mr. Wittenberg in the same commission... How do you work if you do not discuss matters with each other? You are his member of this commission, so your duty is to discuss all the issues. You're now saying from the platform that you don't know and that someone has deceived you... You were misled by Mr. Wittenberg? He lied to you about what that was? That's not the case. We all understand that in the commission... that the board of directors discusses all matters with each other. And if you had things to say about Wittenberg, then you would have climbed into the quarry and said it, not just lying bad to the whole society! This is a poor revenge to KPV LV, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U79	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U80	Please just confirm the Central Land Commission. ( Interface: “Unanimously! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U81	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the composition of the Central Land Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 73, no. - 16, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Janis Vitenbergs as Chairman of the Central Land Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U82	On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, please elect Mr Janis Vitenbergs, the Speaker of the Central Land Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U83	Please call me! Let's start... Colleagues, there was a call, but there was a call! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Salanist: “You need to apply in time!” ) You could have applied for a debate while the rapporteur was reporting. We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima member Jānis Vitenbergs as Chairman of the Central Land Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Please call me! Please register the Members! Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to one statement! Recently our colleague Aldis Adamovičs celebrated a round anniversary, half-round by Didzis Schmidt. (Applause) Sub-words: “Breed! Rough!’ ) Our fellow Member Didzis Schmidt celebrated the anniversary of the peninsulas. (Applause) Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U84	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakšas, Gatis Eglitis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Inese Ikstena, Janīna Kursīte, Romanas Naudiņš, Ivars Puga, Juta Strīķe, Vita Anda Steel, Ivars Zariņš and Reinis Znotiņš. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: “I am here!” ) Juta Strike is.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2040-U85	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting. The agenda for the meeting on 20 February will be discussed at 11.10 a.m.
