ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-16-PT13-2097-U1	Dear colleagues, Let us begin the remote emergency sitting on 16 June 2020. Please keep the agenda available on the tab. Thank you. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Valaiņš, will you talk about it or about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-16-PT13-2097-U2	I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-16-PT13-2097-U3	So “no” applied to speak to Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-16-PT13-2097-U4	Colleagues, I would call for this draft law not to be passed on to the commission responsible, because amendments to the Riga City Council's dismissal law have already been reviewed several times in the Saeima. And if we look at real guidelines such as the elections, this case does not finally fit in with anything... any general possible guidelines, as currently the procedure for preparing Riga City Council elections has already been changed several times. This is also, in essence, a debate... and also a change of order. At the moment, there have been less than... almost three months to the next Riga City Council... until these extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council during which these regulations... Well, one is parliamentary parties, those who are going to start in the extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council... as important as this is for parties that are not in Parliament, and especially at a time when this link with society is very weak so as not to say more, at the moment, to make such amendments on a regular basis... With such a degree of regularity, it is not the best principle of good governance. That is why, in my view, those rules that had already been approved at first should also be maintained and should not be carried out... Even in this case, these improvements, which are contained in this draft law, are also rather controversial, where electoral experts have already given their opinion that this issue still needs to be reviewed. At present, as a matter of urgency as these amendments have been proposed, this would not be acceptable. I would therefore urge you to refrain from or vote against the handing over of this draft law and the government and politicians in general to avoid making any amendments, especially at this time – so close to the elections. And this election is already a rather big issue if we are talking about proper... a really orderly electoral procedure. No good guidelines have been followed here. I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-16-PT13-2097-U5	Thank you. Will you please, Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova talk about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-16-PT13-2097-U6	Yeah, I'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-16-PT13-2097-U7	Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-16-PT13-2097-U8	I will call on colleagues to support this draft law and to move forward, but in the profile commission, namely the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which looks at these types of draft laws. We, our commission, are looking at all the projects related to the operation of the CEC, the election... and their course, and I would like to point out that the last... last month's practice of e.g. the fact that the CVK's working hours are being discussed in elections by two commissions. An outstanding example of this was when both the Commission of State Administration and Local Government and the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission looked at the offer to extend the work of the districts. This has unduly extended the work of the two commissions, and there was a need to harmonise the amendments adopted. Therefore, I will invite you to support this draft law and move it forward, but not to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which is absolutely incomprehensible, which does not correspond to the competence and profile of this Commission, but to the appropriate Commission, the committee responsible for the draft law, i.e. the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-16-PT13-2097-U9	Thank you. Thus, there is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which states that it is the committee responsible. Colleagues, we have to vote on this. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! On – 29, against – 44, abstained – 8. So the draft law for the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government (Sound Break.) ... Colleagues, we will vote in favour of transferring the draft law to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. Please activate the voting section. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribakow’s intermediate call sign.) Please provide technical assistance to the Member Ivan Ribakov. ( Pause) ( The intermediate statement: “We will vote again if? ” ) We will vote again, yes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribakov: “Oh, okay!” ) We will be voting again, colleagues. “ It’s all right, isn’t it? Can we? All right.” ) Colleagues, please note, we will vote in favour of transferring the draft law to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For – 54, against – 3, abstain – 25. The draft law has been passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. Members are still registered. It has been successfully completed. Thank you. I'm closing the sitting. The Bureau plans to convene a remote extraordinary meeting tomorrow, June 17, at 14:00. Thank you all for your work today.
