ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U1	Dear colleagues, Let us begin the third remote emergency sitting on 17 December 2020. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On approval of a Judge of the Constitutional Court”. Dear colleagues, Five candidates have been nominated for the office of a judge of the Constitutional Court. In line with the parliamentary order, the vote on all candidates must take place at the same time and vote openly with the ballot papers. A candidate shall be deemed to have been approved if not less than 51 votes have been obtained in accordance with Article 85 of the Satversme. At the remote sitting of the Saeima, an open vote with ballot papers will take place on the platform e-Laima by filling in the electronic election sign. In making this choice, colleagues, I will remind you that the mark "On" should not be made more than one candidate. You can make a “ Against All” check if you want to vote against all candidates, and you can submit an election sign that does not contain a mark, but such a vote mark will be considered invalid. Ladies and gentlemen, when the vote is open, the time allowed for voting is one minute. Now, on behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U2	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 27 October, the draft decision “On the approval of a Judge of the Constitutional Court” was reviewed. The judge of the Constitutional Court should be approved because the former President of the Constitutional Court Ineta Ziemele has been appointed as a judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Mrs. Ziemele was approved as a judge of the Constitutional Court on the proposal of the Saeima Members. In order to verify the suitability of candidates for vacant post, Members of the Legal Commission evaluated all information received, including by discussing the assessment made by the Council for the Judiciary. All nominated candidates were heard. The Commission discussed with candidates for the post - Ringolds Balodi, Inese Druvieti, Gunārs Kūtri, Inese Lībiņa-Egneri and Inese Nikuļceva - issues regarding the execution of judgments of the Constitutional Court, possible improvements in the work of the court, place and role of the Constitutional Court in the country. The commission and candidates also discussed cases in which the judge would have to refer himself to the case, as well as the professional achievements of the candidates. By a majority vote, the Legal Commission decided that all candidates for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court meet the set criteria and are suitable for the position. Therefore, the Legal Commission shall direct all five candidates to vote in the Saeima. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to decide on the draft decision of the Saeima “On the approval of the judge of the Constitutional Court”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U3	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U4	Hello, colleagues! I will ask the chair of the sitting to unite the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U5	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U6	Hello, colleagues! Before we elect a judge of the Constitutional Court today, I would like to talk about three things: legitimacy, democracy and professionalism. The Constitutional Court, as we know, is an unpredicted, artificially created... currently an artificial constitutional organ. 100 years ago, when the Constitution of Latvia was established, the norms, values, ideals and attitude towards various social realities were clear and self-evident. No one came to mind to question or interpret anything. The legitimacy of the Constitutional Court is simply a vote of the majority of Members of previous elections. It has no direct mandate for the people. Unfortunately, the myth of the Constitutional Court as an institution dedicated to divine legitimacy, which is above the political will of the people or the political will of the legislator, is present in the public space at the moment, but that is not the case. The truth is quite different. The competence of the Constitutional Court is defined in Article 85 of the Satversme and Article 16 of the Constitutional Court Law - it is a very narrow competence. I invite everyone to read these articles again in order to understand what we are talking about. There is absolutely no delegation to the Constitutional Court of the right to “give tasks to Saeima” (footsteps). The Constitutional Court has not been granted the right to define concepts politically. The Constitutional Court certainly does not have the right to grant authority to itself in the judgment - that is a complete nonsensus! In any case, this is explained by some lawyers. Talking about democracy. The Constitutional Court is the same institution maintained by taxpayers' money as all other institutions. Its decisions may be criticised, just as the work of the Saeima may be criticised, just as the work of the government may be criticised. The right to do so is guaranteed by the Satversme itself. Pluralism is an integral part of democracy. Much is said about tolerance and tolerance. But tolerance, like respect, must be mutual. Some social realities as cohabitation of widely discussed same-sex couples throughout mankind's thousands of years of history have not been recognized as a social norm anywhere in the world, except for the short-term... the ancient world, of course. Now too... Even in the small, relatively small, world, in the part of the world in which this social reality has been recognized as the norm, it has been done very recently, literally a few decades ago. Therefore, I would like to say that recognition cannot be achieved by deception, oppression, humiliation. I call not to call any part of society for combat dogs, because it also pays the salary to the Constitutional Court. I call for tolerance and respect for all. I also call for respect for those who express in their views values recognised in the last millenniums and strive to preserve them in their heart, mind and opinion. It is these that have ensured the existence of humanity. Those who say that traditional values are the sighing of their wives are shamelessly slandering and slandering our culture. I invite them to study, read our folklore, songs, literature, and other sources. There you will find a condemnation of such action, but in no way - its recognition as value. And finally, in terms of professionalism. The benchmark of professionalism of the judge is knowledge, respect for the law, impartiality, loyalty to society and political neutrality, as well as the ability to explain its decisions in a understandable way. Following the information in public space, unfortunately, I have to admit that the Constitutional Court has not professionally explained its judgments, for example, how social reality could be such an event as the birth of a child in the cohabitation of two men, which would have required the state to grant a child benefit... birth grant. We know that surrogates are currently not allowed in the Western world. Their “services” (footsteps) are trafficking in human beings. The Constitutional Court has also not professionally explained to the public Articles 2, 64, 73, 78 and 79 of the Satversme. I want to hope that we will elect professional, objective, politically neutral, judges of the Constitutional Court loyal to the state and society. I would really not want to experience the times when the Constitutional Court would begin to interpret, at some point, the issues of the state language, for example, in the context of social realities. Thank you, colleagues. Let us wish all of us good luck and take this decision objectively and professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U7	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U8	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! I am really glad that after waiting for two months, we have finally reached a decision on a Constitutional Court judge. This will be a speech of support. It will be dedicated to the promotion of human rights and professionalism - universal and highly respected values above personal beliefs and, dare also, prejudice. Our leading candidate, Inese Nikuļceva, is a high-ranking professional in national law, European law and human rights. She has successfully defended both our courts, the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights the right of our people to a fair trial, freedom, security, inviolability of family and private life - with success! Every time our constitutional court or the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg decides in favour of human rights, our democracy becomes better and more legal. Our country is also getting stronger. Human rights and the right to a fair trial are due to all of us, every one of us. Inese Nikuļceva has never represented any person in criminal or commercial disputes. Inese Nikuļceva is a highly valued professional in legal circles. The opinion of the Council for the Judiciary also clearly shows this: she was recognised as particularly suitable for carrying out responsible duties, without any remarks. At the moment, there is no lawyer in the Constitutional Court who has experience in representing human rights in particular... people in court and who in practical work would have verified what a person needs in contact with the Constitutional Court. Yes, there are academics, judges, legislative experts, but there is no lawyer who would have made applications and constitutional complaints himself and represented the rights of certain people. Such competence would be useful for the Constitutional Court and would improve the quality and efficiency of its work. Inese Nikulceva is a doctor in law, but she's not just an academic. Fifteen years of practical work experience will allow her to start working intensively in the Constitutional Court from day one. Competition for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court has been fierce this time, and it is good. We can choose the most professional candidate who has a modern view and appropriate experience for the development of work of the Constitutional Court. However, it is regrettable to admit that alongside fierce competition this time there has also remained a strong aftertaste - for an effort to identify a lawyer with his client, one of the clients, many clients, contrary to the spirit and letter of the law. The law requires the lawyer to be completely independent and free. Politically, economically and intellectually free from their client as well. And this law has always been fulfilled by Inese Nikuļceva. Today I am calling for a vote on high level of professionalism, on knowledge of how to improve the work of the Constitutional Court. I therefore call on my colleagues to vote in favour of Inese Nikulceva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U9	Thank you. Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U10	Colleagues! Our group has nominated Inese Lībiņa-Egneri as candidates for the position of judge of the Constitutional Court. Inese Lībiņa-Egnerė has extensive professional experience. Even before his work in the Saeima, Inese was a legal adviser to the President of Latvia. Prior to 2007, she also practiced as a sworn lawyer. In the meantime, she was previously a assistant to a judge of the Constitutional Court; moreover, she is the author of comments from several articles of the Satversme: Section 16 and Chapter 17 of the Satversme “The Saeima”, Section 52 “The President of the State” and Section 96 “The Right to Private Life”. Lībiņa-Egnere has a range of professional publications, including constitutional rights, family rights and human rights issues. Along with work in Saeima Inese Lībiņa-Egnere has been working in an academic environment for a long time, teaching law students at the University of Latvia. Inese Lībiņa-Egnere has been working to strengthen the principles of the rule of law in her professional work. Her priorities have been the effectiveness, transparency and openness of judicial proceedings in decision-making. It should be recalled that the Council for the Judiciary recognised the candidacy of Inese Lībiņa-Egnere as particularly suitable for the office of a Constitutional judge, without any comment. Our group believes that Lībiņa-Egnere will be the professionally most powerful contribution to the team of the Constitutional Court. We also call for her candidacy to be supported by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U11	Thank you. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Well, the rapporteur... Legal Commission... already very accurately noted that in fact all candidates correspond to the position of the judge responsible for the Constitutional Court and are therefore directed to the Saeima sitting, and we will now have to choose by voting for one of the candidates. However, at the moment I want to touch a little different direction, and we have talked a lot about such a period of 'cooling'. This is linked to the principles of good governance. In this respect, this principle of good governance should not, in my opinion, be respected solely by executive power. This should also be respected by the courts. In this case, of course, all five candidates are highly qualified lawyers with very good experience, but the "removal period" of several of these candidates should still be respected. It is possible that at some point a norm may come to the Constitutional Court, the support of which has been voted by one of the former or existing Members in Parliament, thus coming in a conflict of interests, such as the level of self-esteem, in the case where I do not wish to vote or declare a norm invalid, which has previously been decided upon and perhaps even provided support in the debate. Therefore, in this case, I would like to express my support for Inese Druviete, a very high-level professional, who has also gained international experience. In the past, as well as many of us in the political group and in society, I once again confirm that all of the candidates are very high-ranking lawyers, worthy of this high position, but the cooling-off period for the three candidates is, in my opinion, too short. Therefore, I call on you to support in this responsible position a person who has also gained international experience - Inese Druviete. Thank you very much. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U13	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U14	Hello! My hands are only one of the volumes of the scientific publication “Constitutional comments of the Republic of Latvia”. Doctor of Legal Sciences Ringolds Balodis is not only the author of comments, but also the scientific director of the publication. The leading Latvian law lawyers joined in making these comments. The erudition and authority of the scientific director of the publication, as recognised by Mr Baloža, are just one of the factors that demonstrate his deep understanding of the Constitution and national law. The legal baggage of Mr Baloža as a national legal and comparative specialist in constitutional law is also reflected in monographs and scientific studies published in Latvia, the United States, the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, Spain, Belgium, France and elsewhere. The co-author status of many international collectives... Mr. Baloža has been performing academic activities for many years at the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia, which includes a professor, a member of the Council of Professors, a member of the Council of the Faculty, and a chairman of the Promotion Council. Periods of importance for experience of legal work Ringolds Balodis also had to perform his duties as the main notary of the State, Head of the Administration of Religious Affairs, Member of the Saeima. Former member of the OSCE Commission on Democratic Institutions and Human Rights Bureau experts on freedom of religion or belief. Taking into account the scientific contribution and understanding of the Constitution in all nuances, as well as successful professional activity, when entering into the activities of various institutions, Ringolds Balodis perfectly corresponds to the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The National Association invites to support Ringolds Balodi as a judge of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U15	Name to Member Aivars Gaidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U16	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I want to start by... At the beginning of the whole process... As a member of the Legal Commission, I also took part in the selection, in which all applicants were heard. First of all, it was not really correct that it came from the Council for the Judiciary... Although all candidates meet the requirements, of course this is a sensitive question. But it's already... The three applicants with comments, which are not, indeed, valid, because there were comments such as a lack of authority and other factually inexplicable and, consequently, incomprehensible such comments concerning those applicants. I will not repeat what Mr Rancan said: now, recent events clearly show that society is once again divided. If this time it is not a language issue between Russians and Latvians, then now it is about values and ideology, about what direction we will take. Our candidate is Inese Druviete. I support him, and we have also agreed in the political group that this candidate is appropriate to the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. More about motivation. Motivation... It is clear that the last judgment of the Constitutional Court is explicitly binding on the legislator, but in my opinion this is a politically-decided decision, because it is not possible simply to have an individual's lifestyle now... each, any individual, not to mention this group, which is the same-sex couple relationship, incorporate into the law. And in response to Mr Pavluta's fact that democracy has been strengthened and Brussels will arrange for us to do so, I would remind you that by generalising democratic values, they will clearly go against national interests and, let us say, in order to preserve the country's identity... and which... all values are embedded in the Constitution. Then... I would also like to support Inese Druviete's candidacy. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support and a clear thought to be given to ensuring that society is not divided again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U17	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U18	Hello, colleagues! Dear President, Honourable Members! I fully agree with what Mr Rancan said - with some additions. I think that Parliament's prestige has been very serious, and I think it has already begun with the famous decision about Abren, which seems to be a newly added territory and is therefore not necessary... whether this territory is not subject to any requirement for a people to vote, say, in case of its disconnection from Latvia. I have great fear that after this analogy, the Constitutional Court can calmly decide that the voting of the people is not necessary in the issue of Latgale, it cannot apply to Latgale. Why? Because Latgale, unlike Kurzeme and Vidzeme, has never been an autonomous province, it was a part of Vitebsk gum and, in part, Pskov gum. Therefore, the Constitutional Court could, by analogy with Abreni, say that it is a newly added territory and that no referendum of the people is applicable... That's what the Constitution says. Next. I agree with Mr Rancāns that we might not have this decorative and costly paying institution, because there is no such thing in Estonia, there is no constitutional court in Finland, there is no constitutional court in Sweden. And why? I looked at it a little bit. It turns out there constitutional issues, as well as compliance of decisions of the European Union with local legislation is examined by the Supreme Court. In Latvia, too, during the parliamentary republic, issues related to the Constitution were examined... excellent reviewed professional judges of the Supreme Court. Then why do we need two parallel institutions at present - both the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court? But until this reform of the Latvian judicial system has been completed, we should do something to improve the current prestige of the Supreme Court, which has inevitably been destroyed by the current President of the Constitutional Court with his endless fantasy flight, declaring that we need to support all types of families, especially if they are registered abroad, as well as such. This is absolutely untruthful, neither in the European Union nor in Latvia, for example, the police family in Saudi Arabia, and we know that President Macron has recently signed an order to expel all these families in France, where the husband has several wives. So that is absolutely wrong. And the Civil Law also says it. We should elect a judge who respects and respects the Civil Law, not only by letter, but also by spirit, where it can be understood exactly what family the state needs to protect. We should vote in favour of a judge who is familiar with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in 1948 and whose Article 16 states that "males and women who have reached adulthood have the right to marry and to establish a family without any restrictions on racial, ethnic or religious belief". So just three restrictions are mentioned here; other restrictions may be, as we know. The judge of the Constitutional Court should not undermine the adopted terms, he should respect, as I said, the Civil Law and also international law. And I think the most suitable candidate in this case could really be Ringolds Balodis, because he has more than 100 publications on these issues, his work has been published abroad in 14 countries - in the United States, in France, in Italy and in other countries. I think none of the candidates has such publications. I therefore call for support for Ringold Balodi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U19	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U20	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! When we vote in the Saeima for the approval of the judges of the General Court, the Saeima trusts and trusts the established selection procedure to ensure minimal interference of the political power. There is a slightly different procedure for the nomination of judges of the Constitutional Court, and today we decide on a candidate directed by the Saeima. Among the seven candidates for the office of a judge of the Constitutional Court there are three candidates, two nominated by the Cabinet of Ministers, and two by the College of the Supreme Court. However, the law “On Judicial Power” provides that the Council for the Judiciary also hears candidates for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court and gives the Saeima an opinion on them. I welcome the involvement of the Council for the Judiciary in the evaluation of potential judges - both their professional assessment and the fact that the Council for the Judiciary has set criteria on which we, the Saeima, can also assess potential judges. And that's four. First. Professional authority and achievements in the professional field. Secondly. Contribution to the development of the legal system. Thirdly. Professional and personal reputation within available news. Fourth. A vision of the place and role of the Constitutional Court in the country. We, the Group on Development/About! , we heard, I would say - we listened carefully, and we interviewed all five candidates who are before us today. I also had the opportunity to hear candidates again from the Legal Commission. And I can say with full confidence that I will support Inese Nikuļceva as candidates who will bring essential quality to the Constitutional Court. I have been in contact with my client, Inese Nikuļceva, when she took part in representing the Society for Transparency - Delna in the European Court of Human Rights in a complex case in the field of environmental law. She did this with a sense of depth, enthusiasm and accuracy, ensuring long-term representation. The answers that Inese Nikuļceva gave to the Legal Commission... In particular, I was told by her response to possible conflicts of interest when one of the cases she represented should be examined. Of course, there is a renunciation of the case where you have represented the applicant, and that is what we would expect from each applicant. Such cases may also be the other candidates for the office of a judge of the Constitutional Court, especially three members of the Saeima, two former and one present. However, other explanations given by Nikuļceva at the Legal Commission on this issue showed high professional responsibility and ethical understanding. Any Latvian citizen and institution will be able to trust that Inese Nikuļceva will consider his case carefully, in essence and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. So Inese Nikulceva acted on behalf of clients for 15 years in practice as a lawyer. Today we have heard that Mrs Nikulceva has represented her clients only on constitutional and human rights issues, but not in criminal and civil matters. But she would have the full right to do so. We should still talk about her professionalism and suitability for the job, not her clients. Section 7 of the Law on the Law of the Republic of Latvia clearly highlights: “A lawyer may not be identified with their clients or with client cases for the performance of the professional duties of a lawyer.” From the discussions in society about judges of the Constitutional Court and also in the Saeima, I have come to the conclusion that in our society the division of our own and the strangers, towing of the borders, if they have represented it and it - of all horrors, is currently very much dominant! - And then we compare the relationship between lawyer and client to being friends. And you can't do that. The Constitution is one that protects everyone in Latvia. All those who deserve it by law, and that is what candidate, Inese Nikuļceva, will do if it is elected. I want to share another observation during this selection process. The criterion “I don’t know him” is still alive in Latvian society, including lawyers. I would really call for more active lawyers and the rest to engage and explore candidates before raising concerns about their quality simply because they do not know the candidate. Of course, if a candidate is better known, it does not exclude him from the list of candidates, but we still have to be evaluated on the basis of neutral criteria, not just on the basis of personal affection, because only in this way can we build confidence in people that we will choose the best. I had not come to mind that when speaking about the candidate for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court, I will have to defend the existence of the Constitutional Court as a guarantee of the legal state in the Saeima... set up by the government with the stamp of the coalition of the rule of law. However, I hope that the Saeima will make a responsible decision today, because the countries of the rule of law are more happy. I call for the vote to be a strong candidate for the judge of the Constitutional Court. I call on Members to vote today in favour of Inese Nikulceva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U21	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U22	Dear colleagues, One of the evaluation criteria, as Mrs Voika said, is the reputation of candidates. I may not touch the personal reputation of individual candidates, because I really regret the Stenogram of the Saeima. If we talk about the reputation that currently belongs to judges of the Constitutional Court, those who now decide not only about compliance of the law with the Satversme, but also about compliance of other laws and regulations with the Constitution and, in the opinion of many, many, now after one of the last court decisions, try to actually interfere in the interpretation of the Satversme, here I would like to note that until now, I think, until this parliamentary election, with regard to judges of the Constitutional Court, perhaps a large number of Members came to this issue formally, trusting in the way in which the candidates have been evaluated. However, what we have had to hear from judges who have already been elected is really questioning that the reputation of judges and in general understanding of judges about universal human values has been high enough. And here I am talking about the present President of the Constitutional Court, Sanita Osipov, who, in my opinion, allowed a hate speech to be made with regard to Christians, namely, I will quote. She said: “The first Christians were ready to die for their faith, and they were martyrs in the Roman Empire. In the Middle Ages, Christians were willing to kill themselves for their faith. And I would rather live between the first and the second.” Here's the honourable colleagues, a man the Saeima once did! - by its votes, has been elected as a judge of the Constitutional Court, who is actually adopting such decisions, which are above the competence of the Saeima, who instruct the Saeima to make appropriate amendments to the law on the basis of ideological considerations, based on their personal understanding of the privacy of people. Therefore, I will call on you today, my fellow Members, to come to this vote not only formally, with confidence in the views of the Council for the Judiciary in particular... Although I personally feel it's rather strange, low, underestimating candidates of such a high level as Ringolds Balodis, Gunārs Kūtris, Inese Druviete, noting that, here, they lack some modern view of things, without explaining what this view is and even not even not participating in a meeting of the Legal Commission to provide explanations. In my opinion, it was a disrespect not only for candidates but also for Members of the Saeima. I call on you to come to this vote very, very, very carefully, because the person you are electing today is the judge of the Constitutional Court next... 10 And it shall be for the coming years to work in his office, and to make such decisions as ye shall then be responsible for. And if there is - and there will be! - very many cases in the Constitutional Court, including cases of ideological nature, if then you also maybe when you will no longer be members of the Saeima... If you then have people come to you and ask what you have elected, you will have to be able to respond to your vote and say, to give reasons why your vote on that person was that or different. This is very important, and it is not really, as representatives of NGOs also pointed out to us, a law that the Saeima can amend... one day change, the other day... and correct your mistakes. This error, if we allow it, will not be possible to correct it, because the withdrawal of the Constitutional Judge... It has very narrow possibilities. Therefore, my fellow Members, I would really ask you to come to this vote in a very responsible, much more responsible manner than you are voting in favour of the Saeima... on the multiannual... for the annual budget, because then you will have to be responsible for your vote and for the person who will decide on the actual fate of Latvia, as many of my colleagues have already pointed out here. I call on you to vote in favour of those candidates whose political "removal" has been reasonable and not immediately from the Saeima's Member promises to the Constitutional Court. I call on you to vote in favour of those candidates who can be politically and also ideologically neutral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U23	Thank you. Name to Member Aivars Gaidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U24	Yeah, keeping what Julia Stepanenko said, I can agree... and should still remember how these events developed. There was a recent judgment of the Constitutional Court, and at a rapid pace it was healed to make corrections to Section 155 of the Labour Law. We know Christmas is coming... It's actually... They are actually one of the largest Christian holidays - Christmas, and at this moment you have made more than two billion people, say, faith - completely unacceptable! Well, then at least for now, after the new year, we look at how we can sit there at one table and deal with these issues. But I am more interested in the representative of the SAHHA, who will also vote today, and you see that Nils has gone to Brussels, he has come out of the closet. That would not be bad, but I doubt that the voters of Nila Usakov, who are in Latvia, most of whom are certainly Orthodox, who are very believers and who are for traditional families and for preserving values... and the union exists between a man and a woman... How will he be able to explain to his constituents that it is now the same thing in Latvia that the group shares. Part, half, half, half. And I can say that in the next elections, Russian, let's say... Russian people will also make their choice, because the fight will definitely continue, and then there will be some adjustments in the near future, because now there is a clear message of people's leaders given to society that we are against same-sex couples policy in Latvia. I therefore call on the liberal forces not to force us to live our lives in an aggressive way involving children and also young people who are even minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U25	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U26	Hello, community! Hello, fellow Members, again! So, first of all, about the Constitutional Court. In such a small (comparable) country as Latvia, I think it is a very expensive nutrition institution, and this function can be performed completely calmly by the Supreme Court. So we should think at all about the elimination of the Constitutional Court and the transfer of functions to the Supreme Court, because it would be logical. You don't need such a expensive institution in such a small country. The other thing. The Constitutional Court has violated everything that can be violated by one of its judgments. I think that I have decided my competence, my powers, how it is not in the Constitution. I would remind you that the task of the Constitutional Court is to verify whether a norm in force in Latvia complies with the Satversme. If we look historically, systemically, teleologically, in any way, as we would translate the Constitution, the Fathers of the Satversme have never intended what is so highly defended by the President of the Constitutional Court Sanita Osipova. It is an intervention in politics, it is not legality, it is a policy, and it is a very dangerous signal that the Constitutional Court can begin to deal with politics. And the third case, which is even worse, is, in fact, the permission of the President of the Constitutional Court to publicly say that the people are just a legislator. No, Sanita Osipova, the nation is the highest decision-making body in the country. The will of the people is the will of God! No one has abolished the will of the people, and neither can it be revoked by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is not higher and cannot be higher than the will of the people, and it is on the issue of referendum... So how to strengthen, for example, the concept of the family in the Constitution. In this respect, Sanita Osipova is absolutely not speaking from a legal point of view, but politically speaking, and this is unacceptable. The judge must not interfere in politics. The judge may decide only in law what the case allows. In this context, it is very interesting that in its judgment the Constitutional Court has not analysed such details as the Civil Law, which has been created before the war in Latvia. It is very interesting to say clearly and clearly what a family is, who are relatives, who are family rights and how they are regulated. In the absence of such arguments, this danger of political interference with public administration should be eliminated. If we are talking about candidates, then I am sympathetic with two candidates personally. I know both of them personally, too. I have a very good relationship, I think, with one, I know the other from ancient times, but we don't have every day... We don’t meet anyone or anyone else on a daily basis. I do not doubt that the other candidates are high-class professionals as well, but I will certainly vote in favour of the candidate who will be in favour of the fact that in the Republic of Latvia the nation of the Republic of Latvia has the highest legislative right, the nation has the right to determine what can and cannot be decided by the Constitutional Court, and who will support the fact that the Constitutional Court must respect the will of the citizens of the Republic of Latvia. That's my idea. At the end of this speech, I would also like to call on the political parties to make a fair statement. Inese Voika talked about being a friend... I think I need to say honestly - I do not doubt the professionalism of Inese Nikuļceva, she is really a very professional lawyer - that the connection to... Friendship, personal friendship, with the Viņķelis family, was very likely playing a role in her nomination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U27	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U28	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Yes, this is an important issue. I had the opportunity to ask a few questions when looking at these people in the Legal Commission. One of them was that, on a global scale, at European level, now, and in our country, too, there is a very strict dividing line between positions, personal positions, views, political views, which is linked to two approaches: the liberal approach and the conservative approach. I asked some candidates this question: what is the applicant's personal and political view. And responses were received. To be honest, I also recognise that more or less all five candidates are worthy of debate and vote on them in the Saeima, but it should be borne in mind that the argument I mentioned about civil political confidence can now play a very crucial role. Obviously, Members who have confidence, to whom he adds themselves - either to the conservative or to the liberal wing of politicians - will certainly play... this issue also in the course of the proceedings. But I would still like to refer to my colleague Alexander Kirštein's words in two things he said. One thing I agree, the other thing I do not agree. First thing about Abren. Yes, I agree that on the issue of Abrene, when this part of the territory of Latvia was separated and transferred, returned to another foreign country, there was to be a referendum and not only a ruling of the Constitutional Court, but a referendum. The citizens would then say their name. And that would be the last word. I do not agree with what Mr Kirštein said: here, there could also be concerns about the future decisions of the Constitutional Court on the Latgale issue. However, I would like to remind you that Article 3 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia provides: “The territories of Latvia shall be concluded within the limits established in international treaties between Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale.” When our countries were formed, yes, they were certain territories with borders, but they were accepted by the Constitution, and this article on borders was written into Article 3. Latgale, although it was outside at that time Vidzeme and Kurzeme, had an impact and it was Vidzeme... I'm sorry, Vitebsk Guberna, but when it joined, it had certain boundaries, a specific territory. I would like to say that these two administrative territorial reforms - 2009 and this year too - had to start with this article, with specific borders for these territories - Latgale, Vidzeme, Kurzeme and also Zemgale - in relation to this article. It didn't happen. This is why there is this yeng, this uncertainty, and in fact the Saeima itself has violated Article 3 of the Satversme. So... Well, then what we want, what we want... I would like to call for a positive assessment, of course, of everyone's own discretion and opinions. But as I represent a conservative opinion, I will support in any case the candidate who will have such views. I've signed... and supported Ina Druviete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U29	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U30	President of the Saeima! Colleagues! Today several Members have spoken and I will also speak mainly not about who is or is not a judge of the Constitutional Court, but about the role of the Constitutional Court and the current state of the Constitutional Court, when more and more really very sensitive issues are decided by the Constitutional Court. They are not just citizens... of course, every citizen of Latvia has the right to apply to the Constitutional Court... but the Constitutional Court is becoming more and more enlightened by a failure of the government and the Saeima. These issues are increasingly... People who are unable to obtain support from the government and the Saeima are seeking it in the Constitutional Court. And now more and more, these decisions are such a whole debate - both on minimum pensions and on minimum income levels. How long the Ombudsman fought until he went to the Constitutional Court without showing hearing ears in the government and the Saeima. If we look at this last decision, which is so much discussed, then, I think, the most important thing is perhaps not what is recorded in the decision itself, but the most important thing is how the President of the Constitutional Court delivered this decision. And this method of presentation was, in my opinion, strong, far-exploited. If we look at the draft decision itself, then in a way, in my view, it is not in line with what the President of the Constitutional Court said when he commented on it. But if we keep looking... If we look further, what will then be the greatest challenge for the next judge of the Constitutional Court in this case, led by the Saeima. At the moment, there is a situation that this Constitutional Court is starting to look at as a political institution. And regardless of what we will elect and what filter this candidate has passed (all five are good candidates, there is no doubt, there are very good feedback for each one, and each of them deserves to be in this position), the biggest problem is that this process of election of the Constitutional Court, colleagues, will admit, has nothing to do with transparency, transparency and principles of good governance. This process of progress is undoubtedly politicised. And it is very political, especially at this time, when I think not only, when talking about candidates of a Constitutional Court judge, I think he... their ability and judgement are the last to be discussed in general on these matters. Therefore, for this composition, as well as for this judge, I think the greatest challenge will be to do so that the Constitutional Court will gain maximum trust in society, and to prevent them from feeling that this composition is politicised. I also wish this to the new judge of the Constitutional Court. Well, we're going to get to him. Today I would like to talk about Gunara Kūtri. In my opinion, Gunārs Kūtris, out of all five, is exactly the candidate who has the most experience of working in public administration. Its experience comes from the General Prosecutor's Office, the State Revenue Service, the Ministry of Justice and the University of Latvia... as academic staff and from the Constitutional Court, where he has worked as the Chair. Although there are issues where I personally have been opposed to what has been decided by the Constitutional Court, I have always respected it and then thought about how to improve my activities so that the decisions that we have taken are fully in line with the Constitution. Unfortunately, this parliamentary term has worked so badly that the Constitutional Court has a lot of work. Therefore, the newly elected judge of the Constitutional Court should have the smallest political... I'll taste it. I therefore call for support to be given to people with the greatest experience: the Gunar Kūtri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U31	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U32	Dear colleagues, I was wrong, however, to name the candidate that I have supported. I'm in favour of Inese Druviete. That is first. Secondly. Maybe, because there's time, there's a chance, I'll make it clear. We restored the independent state of Latvia. And the Constitution... In fact, with the activities of the independent, restored Latvia, the Constitution works, but we have not corrected the error that occurred during the Soviet period... carrying out various administrative reforms, the boundaries of Vidzeme, Latgale, Zemgale and Kurzeme are mixed. Together with the Constitution it was necessary to renew Latgale borders, when these territories were merged - Latgale, Vidzeme and Kurzeme. And then Zemgale was also fixed. These borders had to be restored, and now that we are carrying out an administrative territorial reform, this was to be seen as a primary task. I believe that now, when we look at claims of different municipalities in the Constitutional Court, challenging the law of our administrative territories and settlements, these boundaries for Latgale, Vidzeme, Kurzeme and Zemgale would be an argument to reject this adopted law and to re-examine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U33	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U34	Hello, fellow Members, again! Unfortunately, I must share the view expressed by my colleagues on the criticism that is directed towards the Constitutional Court that, unfortunately, this institution has become politically ingenuated. It makes its decisions, rather than performing the mission that it has been given, namely standing in the watch of the Satversme and being an arbitrator, who is watching and helping everyone to comply with the same conditions of the game, but they have become as much more than that of power, protecting the interests of power. The first decision of the Constitutional Court, which made me think seriously about it, but at that time I think that, perhaps I was wrong, was related to OIC, when the Constitutional Court chose a very specific way to see this request, choosing not to look at it at all – not what the applicants had requested, but to choose their own aspect, which the applicants had not asked at all, and as if it had calculated that they had assessed this request. In particular, they chose to look at this whole OIC story in a context where the executive did not violate the legitimate framework given to it. Knowing what the law says... that the law is written about it: “Governance, you free hands! Do what you want!” , it would be difficult to imagine that the executive could have violated this framework, and it was simply a real clown, which was then dealt with by the Constitutional Court. It is not for nothing about this judgment of the Constitutional Court... Several judges did not agree at all with that judgment and added their individual points of view. That was the first serious signal to me to think about what the Constitutional Court actually started to do and whether this Constitutional Court is really entitled to be the highest expression of truth. And, of course, the second decision, which I think is just damaging for Latvia as a democratic republic... It is about the decision of the Constitutional Court on whether the legislator is entitled to indicate how many sectors should be financed. Sorry, if Latvia includes a democratic republic, where in the Constitution it has been recorded that the power belongs to the people of Latvia and the will of this people is represented here by us, the leaders of the people, and the Constitutional Court can afford to draw such a conclusion that the people do not have the right to decide on a matter and to indicate something to the government - then, apologies, it is already... Either, not simply the ingenuity of power, but in my opinion it is the destruction of the Constitution in its very foundations, the destruction of democracy and the rule of law in our country in its own foundations. And that is what this Constitutional Court has done. I will not talk about other scandalous decisions. I am now talking about these decisions. I see here... Basically... it is simply fundamental that we have gone to the ears, and we have gone to the ears, not because of incompetentness, but because there have been attempts to act in an ingenious way, to make power, to assume already political functions, that these decisions are made not according to justice and the spirit of the law, but by the way - what will be the political advantage? By already taking political decisions that, you know, too, this political situation... We have to hold it down in some way, but we cannot allow it. I therefore call on my fellow Members to choose and vote in favour of a Member who has been least involved in a policy that has not been political, because, in my opinion, the greatest risk at the moment is that the Constitutional Court has unfortunately become politically engaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U35	I closed the debate. Colleagues, we must proceed to the vote. Please call me! Please activate the first round of votes with voting marks! We will vote for approval of the judge of the Constitutional Court! ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, So voting as a judge of the Constitutional Court, first round. 95 electoral marks are valid, invalid - none, not applied - 3. None of the Members voted against. Distribution of votes: “for” Inese Nikulceva - 30 votes, “for” Gunāra Kūtri - 11 votes, “for” Inese Lībiņa-Egneri - 22 votes, “for” Inese Druvieti - 17 votes, “for” Ringolds Balodi - 15 votes. Thus, in this voting round, the judge of the Constitutional Court has not been elected, so we will proceed to the second voting round. The electronic vote sign for the second round of voting will be available to Members and we will start the vote in five minutes. In the second round, we will repeatedly vote for all five candidates. The next round of elections will be held at 13.12 a.m. ( The vote is under way.) Dear colleagues, We are moving on to the second round of voting with voting marks. So voting with ballot marks, second round. Please call me! We will vote for approval of the judge of the Constitutional Court! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, Second round of votes for a judge of the Constitutional Court. 93 valid constituencies, invalid - none, not filed - 5. No Member has voted against everyone. A total of 98 electoral marks have been issued, one election mark has been deleted. Distribution of votes: Inese Nikulceva - 29 - for, 64 - for. Gunārs Kūtris - 13 - for, 80 - for. Inese Lībiņa-Egnere - 21 - for, 72 - for. Inese Druviete - 13 - for, 80 - for. Ringolds Balodis - 17 - for, 76 - for. ( Pause) Dear colleagues, So none of the candidates has obtained the necessary 51 votes, therefore the judge of the Constitutional Court has not been elected during this election round. In the third round, we will vote in favour of all five candidates, because two candidates have obtained the minimum number of votes which is the same. We will therefore vote for all five candidates again. If, in the third round, two candidates have received the lowest vote and the number of candidates will be the same, then in the fourth round, we will vote for three candidates. So in five minutes' time, we will go to the third round of votes. ( The vote is under way.) Dear colleagues, There is therefore the third round of votes. I would remind you that in the third round, we will still vote for five candidates. Please call me! We will vote for approval of the judge of the Constitutional Court! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, In the third round, 99 electoral marks have been issued, one has been deleted - one recognised as valid - 97, not valid, not filed - 2. No member of the Saeima has voted against all candidates. Distribution of votes: Inese Nikuļceva - 32 - for, 65 - against. Gunārs Kūtris - 14 - for, 83 - for. Inese Lībiņa-Egnere - 21 - for, 76 - for. Inese Druviete - 13 - for, 84 - for. Ringolds Balodis - 17 - for, 80 - for. Dear colleagues, This means that, in the fourth round of the vote, we will vote for four candidates: Inese Nikuļceva, Gunārs Kūtri, Inese Lībiņa-Egneri and Ringold Balodi. Dear colleagues, The fourth round of elections is currently under preparation, we will be voting in five minutes, i.e. 13.30. ( The vote is under way.) Dear colleagues, There is a fourth round of elections in which, I recall, we will vote for four candidates: Inese Nikuļceva, Gunāra Kūtri, Inese Lībiņa-Egneri and Ringold Balodi. Please call me! We will vote for approval of the judge of the Constitutional Court! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) In the fourth round, 99 electoral marks have been issued, one is deleted, one is valid - 98, not valid - is not, not presented - one. Six Members voted against all candidates. Distribution of votes: Inese Nikuļceva - 33 - for, 65 - against. Gunārs Kūtris - 12 - for, 86 - for. Inese Lībiņa-Egnere - 22 - for, 76 - for. Ringolds Balodis - 25 - for, 73 - for. Consequently, in the fifth election round, we will vote for four candidates: Inese Nikuļceva, Inese... I am sorry, so we will vote for three candidates in the fifth election round: Inese Nikuļceva, Inese Lībiņa-Egneri and Ringold Balodi. After five minutes, the fifth round of elections with three candidates will be prepared. Hence the fifth round of votes after five minutes. ( The vote is under way.) Dear colleagues, A fifth round of elections has been held. I remind you that in the fifth election round we will vote for three candidates of the judge of the Constitutional Court: Inese Nikuļceva, Inese Lībiņa-Egneri and Ringold Balodi. Please call me! We will vote for approval of the judge of the Constitutional Court! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, In the fifth round, 99 electoral marks have been issued, of which 99 have been deleted - one valid for 97, invalid - none, missing - 2. Six Members voted against all candidates. So the vote is divided: Inese Nikuļceva - 41 - for, 56 - against. Inese Lībiņa-Egnere - 28 - for, 69 - for. Ringolds Balodis - 22 - for, 75 - for. Dear colleagues, Consequently, in the sixth round, we will vote for two candidates - Inese Nikuļceva and Inese Lībiņa-Egner. The sixth round of elections with two candidates is being prepared. Please enable the procedure section. Dear colleagues, Members Bergmanis, Kučinskis, Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Augulis are asking to announce a 15-minute break. We must vote on this. Please vote for a 15-minute break at the third remote emergency sitting on 17 December! Please, let's vote! For - 59, for - 27, for - 2. Decision adopted. So the break is till 2 p.m. Interruption to two, at two turn of the sixth round. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2176-U36	Honourable Members! The sixth round of elections has been prepared, with two candidates – Inese Nikuļceva and Inese Lībiņa–Egnere. Dear colleagues, We have waited several minutes to allow those who are late to join the sitting. There are now 97 Members. Colleagues, we must vote in the sixth election round. Please call me! We will vote for approval of the judge of the Constitutional Court! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, 99 electoral marks have been issued, one of which has been deleted. 93 marks recognised as valid, invalid - not valid. No six characters have been submitted. 22 Members voted against all candidates. Distribution of votes: Inese Nikuļceva - 43 - for, 50 - against. Inese Lībiņa-Egnere - 28 - for, 65 - for. A judge of the Constitutional Court has not been elected. Let us move to the seventh voting round, in which we will vote for one candidate, Inese Nikuļceva. So in five minutes, at 14:10 or 14.11, the seventh voting round, in which we will vote for one candidate, Inese Nikuļceva. ( The vote is under way.) Honourable Members! Let's start the seventh round. During this election period, we have one candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court - Inese Nikulceva. We will vote for one candidate. Please call me! We will vote for approval of the judge of the Constitutional Court! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, 99 electoral marks have been issued. One of them was deleted. The validity was 94, invalid - none, not submitted - 5. 47 Members voted against all candidates. Distribution of votes: Inese Nikuļceva - 47 - for, 47 - against. So also in this, seventh, voting round, a judge of the Constitutional Court has not been elected. Dear colleagues, Thus new elections must be held and the Saeima Presidium and Fraction Council should be held in order to determine the time limit within which candidates for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court are to be nominated. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda of the sitting. Then we close the autumn session. Please be prepared to meet in extraordinary meetings if this is necessary. May a quiet, quiet, warm Christmas, a happy New Year for all! Thank you to Members of the Saeima and members of the Saeima for their work in 2020. There's also a record of Members. Registration is complete. I therefore closed the third remote emergency sitting on 17 December 2020.
