ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U1	Dear colleagues, See the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 18 December 2020. The first section is the examination of draft decisions. The draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 17 November 2020 No. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 719 of 4 December 2020 736 and 8 December 2020 Order No. 743 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Observation, forgive me, Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U2	Good evening, colleagues! Let's get there! The Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption at its meeting on 9 December 2020 discussed with a follow-up on 16 December this year a series of newly named orders prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, which were amended and extended the declared emergency situation. For the purpose of saving time, I would not usually call everything that was done, but let's get a look at what was... the most important things that were identified. The first was therefore to extend the emergency period until 11 January 2021. Secondly, the rules on beauty services have been amended several times, initially allowing only part of them, but then unifying them all. The assembly of individuals was also restricted and private measures were banned. Only one household within this type of measure was allowed. It was established that, if personal care was to be provided, or if a person lives alone, visits should be allowed, but not more than two households. The fairs and library reading houses were also discontinued. The amendments further restrict trade by trying to limit the entertainment of persons in shopping centres on holiday and the associated movement. The sale of alcohol on holidays was prohibited, as well as the... and subsequently, the groups of goods whose persons are available on holiday. It was established that only the pharmacy, including the veterinary pharmacy, and the service stations were operating on holidays and holidays. They prohibited the sale of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products. Trading venues where certain groups of goods may be marketed have been designated. In particular, it was therefore possible to sell foodstuffs other than alcohol, hygiene products, animal feed, press releases and public transport tickets. As we remember, the concentration of people in libraries, museums, and places of religious activity from 50 percent to 20 percent of the possible number of people allowed by the space and infrastructure available to visitors has also been reduced. Education obligations have also been strengthened to guarantee the most secure conditions for its operation. It was established that when implementing pre-school education, employees of the educational institution use oral and nasal covers during and outside the study process. They could not be used by children under the age of seven years and by persons with apparent reduced mobility or mental health conditions who lack the ability or skills to use the oral and nasal cover. It was also established that the education of general education program in class 1-4 is regulated on the spot if one learner is implemented... where at least three square metres from the area of the training area are provided for one learner. It was also determined on the basis of individual... individual learning of the practical part of vocational training which cannot be carried out remotely. In addition, the possibilities for using videoconferencing courts were extended, the execution of decisions on the imposition of educational measures on children was carried out, the procedure for the transfer and taking over of sentenced and arrested persons was regulated. The Order was also supplemented by new points laying down restrictions and obligations on economic operators with regard to the concentration of persons. It was 20 percent or... about 25 square meters in a smaller room one visitor... one visitor. In addition, rules were laid down on the location of information, including in a foreign language, the organisation of public transport, up to 50 per cent of its passenger capacity. There was also an obligation to use an oral and nasal cover in public spaces, including at work, if there is more than one person in the room. It is also planned to use the oral and nasal covers in public transport for children from 7 to 13 years of age as well. It was also established that the organiser of the event and the economic service provider or the owner of the building ensured that the person who does not use the oral and nasal cover or use it in an inappropriate manner (i.e. that it could be without covering the nose and mouth) was not allowed to enter the interior. The organiser of the measure or the economic service provider shall not provide a service to a person who does not comply with the above epidemiological safety requirements, including no oral and nasal cover. Those requirements shall not apply to persons specified in the relevant order. In addition, security measures in the health care system were improved by interrupting the services provided within the framework of health tourism and changing the procedures for the provision of health care services in hospital hospitals, limiting the provision of health care services in day-to-day hospitals and hospitals... provision of health services. It was also planned to increase control over the performance of the duties of persons entering Latvia, as well as the need to submit a confirmation questionnaire to persons in information system Covidpass.lv. Significantly, additional funds were allocated to the medical staff's remuneration and the right to up to 100 percent of the monthly salary. The allowances are also intended for other institutions and persons involved in the fight against the pandemic. In the Commission, after hearing the institutions... Infectologists, experts, government amendments to orders and extensions of the emergency situation were found to be justified, proportionate and necessary in the specific situation. I would like to thank the doctors and all those who, both through their work and their responsible treatment of the restrictions imposed, are struggling with the existing pandemic, and I call on you fellow Members to support this draft decision prepared by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U3	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U4	Good evening, everybody! I would like to say that all your decisions are... I have already said that it is insane, but I want to explain it. The employer or manager shall, as a general rule, assign to his staff tasks which the employees understand, he shall explain, explain why they need to be performed and what results they will achieve, and shall in this way motivate them to take appropriate action. But it's not about our Heads of State. Our Heads of State make chaotic decisions, and if you do not feel that the whole nation is laughing about you, then read the last interview by Raimonds Pauls. Then you'll understand maybe. And all the people ignore it. I can show you a couple of details. I received a text message today, and I quoted: “I was at my hairdresser. I asked, how now? Clearly, nothing will change. On Monday, a full note was made, and in the ladies' groups they gathered themselves at one of the villages, and everything is happening. I don't think anyone had an illusion that it's going to be any different." What do I mean by that? I would like to say with this that we also need to look carefully at the ladies of our Parliament - what kind of hairstyles they will have in three weeks' time. And someone's gonna be a manicure. We won't see the pedicir. But we will be able to check that our Parliament's ladies are or have not been at the hairdresser within three weeks. And it's quite clear that within three weeks, you know... For example, an adult man is clear that a woman regularly takes care of herself, also carries out manicure, and so on. Why does it not work? Because there is no logical support for people who simply need to feed their families. And so you can accept what you want... people just live their parallel life... and pretend that it will, come to the sittings of the Saeima with made hairstyles when they are closed all the hairdressers, and say that you yourself have done it... Everything is clear to everyone, because everyone else will do it. That is, everything that power does begins with unfulfilled orders. You limit all those viruses or something else... And what did you do? Full trolleybuses, buses, full shop parking, hundreds of thousands of people congestion in the center of Riga today. Although he could have made 24 hours a day for the festival all the time. You don't want to sell a nigga from the beginning, then you realize that... you may have read “Schveika”, you realized that if you don't mind... or in the times of Gorbachov or in which... The Soviet era... those who ban the snout from trading - they fall right away. Then let me know, you're part of a food group. That's how you work, everybody laughs at you. In other words, if a staff member is ordered an enforceable order, then he will no longer execute enforceable orders. You have achieved the fact that you simply ignore, because society functions itself. You're out there, like ancient Greek gods in your Olympics, and the people of the country are out there in their own... lives at home. And all these things... You don't see yourself? Nothing... The masks for the kids, you'll put the masks on. Helped you with masks? Last month you had... or how long you wear those masks. I somehow see, according to statistics, everything is... on the contrary, he has gone since the mask was introduced. And I'm watching statistics, by the way. Show me some statistics, please, to say that there is a reduction in the spread of the virus and everything else. The problem is that your decisions are neither deliberate nor in the public interest. You also do not protect your doctors in this way. And the people laugh about you, just laughing openly. For this is already an agony, and the agony that shall come to an end is no longer left. You just don't understand it yourself, if you're still holding on for a while, but you don't understand that everything's over, it's over. You, the power of the racers, Karina and everything... Bring it together, please, in time for me. I'm sorry, join me, please, in time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U5	Yes, your time is combined. Please, speak!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U6	So you, Karin's government all these... They're all... President-in-Office, I am sorry, including all those fans who are fanatics for that government of Unity, and all the others - you call my supporters the cotlee eaters. Now the people laugh about you. Who are you? Who are your supporters? If my own ones are cotlers, who are yours at these insane decisions, what are they? You can't do that, can't you, don't you? I'm driving a kid to school now... At the previous sitting of the Saeima, although we could have held this sitting of the Saeima calmly on Monday, nothing would have happened, nothing would have changed. People also live their lives. They are no longer interested in what is happening here because they understand that it is some kind of total madness. There's nothing out of the reality of life. And people laugh at what is happening in the parliament. You don't see that, you don't understand? Get out of the streets, talk to people, talk to ordinary people for changes! And if you think you'll sit there forever in the Olympics, I'll remind you that "The Latvian Road" thought it would sit forever, "The People's Party" thought it would sit forever... What else was there between you and me? Bill also thought, by the way, that it would be forever... And now you think you'll be there forever. Well, no, dear friends, year - maximum. Even one year? What year? It's all over, it's over. Get out of here! Start doing something for the people at last and make decisions that people want to make, rather than being careful about because they have to eat, but you do not help them. And then you'll say that you're limiting some comma to those reloaded buses that's on the Liberty Street... very symbolically along the Liberty Street with a reloaded bus today ride, very significant. And read the “Sveika” - all those in that coalition, those who have not read, read for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U7	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U8	Dear colleagues, This whole set, maybe with one little order... I could then say that this whole set of orders is one single ridicule for people. Colleagues from the government probably... I don't know if it's Mr Citskovsky or another smart man from the government who has recommended you to put in to these unpleasant decisions there too are bonuses with wise news in the sense that you will not now be able to reject the madness that the government has worked on these proposals if they have a small, small, good, bright thought. Of course not. And so, of course, we see this cunning plan, but I call... I will call on you not to support these documents because the government can, in a very calm manner, make provision for these medical allowances, these benefits and all the rest of them in all its regulations that the government can draw up on the basis of community law. You don't have to start! You, honourable colleagues, can therefore, with a safe heart, reject all these proposals, including those from the coalition, which, as we have seen, were very dissatisfied with these decisions. I hope that they have remained consistent and will not really support these decisions either. What do I mean? So, as we know, these decisions were already in force; they need to be confirmed. But if we are talking about this proposal, this mandatory obligation, so the masks all carry jobs also if there are at least two people, then I would really like to understand. Maybe someone could explain it to me. I asked publicly what happened to the President of State. Why December 16... We can watch the President's website - President Egils Levits accredits His Excellency to the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Iceland at an online ceremony. In this ceremony we see a picture, and President Levit is in the picture, and two workers sit at one table, and Mr Levit has no mask. Can anyone explain why Mr. Levit considers himself to be superior to others? Why does Mr. Levit think that teachers need to wear masks, children will need to wear masks, but he can not carry masks? Maybe because he's Mr. Levite. I also have a question for members of the Bureau. As we have seen for a number of consecutive sittings, the members of the Bureau continue to change their seats, as they may not hold a mass sitting for more than one and a half hours. It is difficult, and it is understandable that it is difficult, but no one is! - from coalition colleagues... He has not heard that he would say one word about the fact that teachers might also find it difficult to run an hour in a mask, where children can still sit in that mask. What we also heard, I too... Thank colleagues, I had the opportunity to attend this sitting. What we heard with regard to masks for children was really an inconceivable cynicism, because when perhaps we heard from the medical profession this claim that, behold, we should not even be critical of these prohibitions, because everything that the government does is for our health, because all people are sick, all people are dying, and we must be understanding, we... in general, anyone who is critical of any of these rules is in their eyes, so the cynician and the person who is to be careful about everyone else. But the question is, why do we have so many doctors? I'll also ask you to unite the times...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U9	The times are combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U10	Why do so many doctors get sick? Isn’t that the reason why doctors were bought inappropriate masks? Isn't that... Should we not call on the honourable medical staff to come together, however, as they collect together in a collective and also claim against the government that they are equipped with inadequate equipment which has caused them health damage? When we hear the arguments that children have to go to school in masks and sit in hours while we have at the same time... Yesterday there were more than a thousand sick and 25 dead, as we heard and read. It's the man who's still at all these numbers... Today, there are more than 800... who, on all these figures, believes that children must go to school and the kindergarten must still be open, that man is the biggest cynicist who can be at all, and if he is a doctor, then this doctor has to put his certificate aside and go to work. Because if you want people to risk their lives and health at such numbers, then either you lie or you're just... Human life is worth nothing to you. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I will call on you not to support all these decisions. They are not logical, they are not justified in science or economic considerations. We see that they are chaotic and absolutely shameful both the government and the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U11	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 17 November 2020 No. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 719 of 4 December 2020 736 and 8 December 2020 Order No. 743 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For -62, for -5, for -16. Decision adopted. The draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 17 December 2020 No. 777 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U12	Colleagues, good evening! In its meeting of 18 December 2020, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, i.e. today, examined the order prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, which made further amendments to the declared emergency situation. Let me tell you the most important thing. The order concerns the situation from 19 December this year until the end of the emergency period, which is set, as I mentioned earlier, at 11 January 2021. This time coincides to a maximum with holidays, which are also used by entrepreneurs and other parts of society. Thus, from tomorrow, on 19 December, retail services are being significantly changed. Only the presence of goods without which the basic needs of society cannot be ensured will be allowed. Consequently, only the following product groups will be allowed to operate: food, hygiene products, essential household goods, mobile phone prepaid cards, tobacco products, plant smoking products, electronic smoking devices and their liquids, animal feed and commodities, press releases, public transport tickets, mouth and nose cover and personal protective equipment, farm produce of domestic producers, flowers and Christmas trees. It is important that alcoholic beverages are added to the food. Consequently, people do not need to worry about the purchase of a holiday champagne and do not need to start buying stocks today. More detailed goods... the lists of goods to be purchased will be in the annexes to this order, they will be found... I will invite you to meet everyone who is more interested in it personally. So by continuing to trade, by means of distance communication, i.e. internet, ordering by telephone or similar, there are no new restrictions. At the same time, additional obligations are also imposed on trading service providers with regard to information, control of the flow of persons and concentration within the space. The new order stops visiting the whole family. In future, shops will need to go to one person, thus reducing the concentration of people in shops and also protecting a wide range of people as much as possible. The exception that can be taken with you is children under 12 years of age and those who need help from an assistant. Street trade and fairs are also prohibited. From the next week, 21 December, it is forbidden to operate both hairdressers, manicureers, masseurs, and tattoos. All economic services related to entertainment and well-being on the spot are also prohibited. Exception and rest... natural trails, provided that one-way flow and two-metre distance are ensured. In other words, all beauty services are discontinued as of 21 December. In addition, libraries, exhibition sites and other cultural sites will not work as of 21 December. Inside museums will be closed, but open-air museums will continue to operate where one-way movement of people will be ensured, people will be prevented from flow-through and distanced at least two metres. Instead, people are invited to visit various virtual events and cultural values located in electronic resources or already mentioned nature trails, parks and forests. Movement is not limited within the territory of its own municipality or in any other territory. There will no longer be an engine hunt in the forests of Latvia. Similarly, sport is reoriented to outdoor developments. This means that sports clubs will not take customers indoors, will not work on gyms and will not be able to go to the club to train individually. Sports inventory rental services will only be allowed to be provided outdoors. And amateur sports will also be able to take place outside the premises. Winter holidays for pupils in grades 1-6 are extended for one week - this is until 8 January 2021, the training will resume on 11 January. There will be no practical lessons, including in professional and higher education, in various courses and similar lessons, only to be conducted remotely. The exception is clinical practice in residence. Interest education and various attempts will also only be possible at a distance. Employers are also obliged to provide work remotely if the specific nature of the work allows it. These conditions apply to both public authorities, local authorities and private companies. In addition, the possibility of granting a premium of 100 per cent to outpatients providing outpatient health services has been introduced. The validity of these restrictions was assessed very carefully in the Commission. Although they are very strict, they are necessary for public health and safety. Not only in Latvia, but also in our neighbours and other European countries, restrictions are even more severe... On the side of the Ministry of Justice and the Ombudsman's Office, we have heard human rights limitation assessments... they are considered to be reasonable and proportionate. I therefore call on colleagues to support the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U13	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U14	Dear colleagues, If we are talking about the Ombudsman, please note that the Ombudsman was the one who pointed out that it is best for the government to behave now as if society were guilty of everything that is happening. And he's absolutely right, because society, most of it, is trying to respect all the limits set by the government, follow all the instructions, unfortunately, watch every precious moment all the transmissions from the Cabinet of Ministers. I say, unfortunately, because these transmissions from the Cabinet of Ministers are becoming increasingly tragic and tragic, and so we also need this support phone so that people can feel at least some psychological comfort from what they are regularly bombed. Because people -- people you keep all the time in the ignorance you've always been... The faults are those who make decisions in health care, security, not people who simply do their own things every day, their own works to ensure tax payments and wages for those who make decisions. That is why I will also call on you not to support this order, because this order is not really based on common sense, because what we saw a few days ago, if I am not mistaken, on Tuesday... It was released around such a message (as if leaked), so the message from the Cabinet of Ministers... Please don't show anyone, don't share a picture from the phone... Some had put their picture in the Word document, so in three or four different ways that this message was wandering on the Internet, that it was the amendment of Regulation No. 655 is planned even worse than we can see now. So you have to stay in your home, you can't go anywhere, and even the grocery stores weren't mentioned in this list. I'd like to see it useless. I would really like to know the word of a naughty person who, with a smart message, launched this in society, either, as it were, face news, or what it is, I do not know, with the intention of simply warning the public, so that they can do something to prepare for this pilot. His courage is his courage! - the head of government hadn't had to warn people a little in advance so that today we don't see its terrible pictures of rebidding buses, of terrible congestion, and which, God only knows, is what's happening in those stores. Because people don't have any chocolateists, they're not being tricked with some new stuff. Most people buy gifts for their children, for whom they cannot explain (the same five-year-old) that Karin has stolen Christmas for them. You can't! And that's what it's all about, it's what drives people now to bring the last need to their loved ones and loved ones. That's the love that drives people into stores right now, just a little bit -- a little bit! - what a joy it would be to my loved ones who don't even work so well at the moment. That is understandable, that is, I think, elementary. And to condemn these people, what we see in public space, both on the side of ministers and on the side of the various great mouth boilers... This condemnation is regrettable, because what you have to condemn is those decision-makers who are currently hiding behind foreign backs who are not currently coming to the Saeima to report and tell why they had released this message, why they did not warn people in advance and why they were laughing at the public in Latvia. I call on you not to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U15	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U16	Good evening! I have a rather fundamental question to the head of the Commission, which is not an observation, but a head of the Prevention Commission, or, during the discussion of this order, the Commission was interested in decisions taken on libraries at this point. Why? Because I have just received several news from professionals, so from libraries, that it is not right to close libraries for a number of reasons. First of all because... the library would not be nice to compare with the store, and yet... if shops are not banned and shops are allowed to go with certain... either at a certain distance, not only amend probably in length, but in principle at a certain distance of one, then the libraries encourage that libraries can also serve their clients on a single basis. And this is possible because in libraries the phones are not yet closed, the phones are running, and customers can apply for what time they will come. So these visits can be coordinated. The libraries have already been operating with high epidemiology... Well, let's say, restriction requirements, so it's nothing new to them. This is particularly relevant for two audiences. First of all, it would be a matter for pensioners, because I doubt that television... what TV now promises to be able to provide for three weeks of so interesting programs continuously so that they can replace reading of books or some reference literature... extraction. So people who are still reading in Latvia (you have rejected the reading program, but adults and seniors are now the oldest part of the reading society in Latvia)... Thus, these people would also be able to exchange books, not now hasty... what I know many have already done: they have taken a certain number, and yet three weeks is a very long time for these people to have read these books. And it is unlikely that walking along the defined paths will be available to all pensioners, especially if we are talking about the fields. The other part of the people who are a little nervous (and the spring has already taught a little) are students. It has to be said that none of the orders that the Saeima formally reconfirms (though this is the strange order, and yet) do not talk about support or cancellation... during the exam or during the session for those studying at higher education institutions. And at this point, of course, the lecturers have said that they have to take certain books, but they're not so... the number of students in the identified group or in the defined study programme. They are always in a smaller number and are not available at the same time to all. So, to some extent, students are worried that they will not be able to prepare qualitatively for the session if they are asked to read more than they should have done during the semester. As a result, to some extent there is no answer on how these students do not lose their probably good ratings. Why am I asking about this again? The libraries, as I said, are places that have worked with high demands... Respect for the restrictions on the epidemiology, and at this point full closure of libraries creates additional panic for people who support and respect the restrictions. But at this point, well, you can't for these people instead offer anything else, just sit at home. Then issue another type of orders and say that all people are sitting at home, going out -- I don't know just why... but what other countries are offering in particularly difficult situations, and explain them. In addition to one remark concerning the previous order, which is also in this order, I think. In time, Šuplinska said that three meters and a mask would not be at the same time. Now we are reading rather strange wordings in these directives, and we must also think that there will be a debate on the next items on the agenda. I doubt, however, that these orders are made with such two parts. The first is the order, the second is the support that people receive. The first is the order, the second is the effect or effect of the order or prohibition that leaves... Well, for different age groups. I am in favour of complying with the restrictions, but in this case the government's actions have not become better, and they are still to be seen as chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U17	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U18	Thank you. Indeed, as the President of Latvia pointed out far-reachingly, people will be denied the opportunity to look forward to the new year when they die from a pandemic. Naturally, in a pandemic situation, restrictions are in place. Naturally, restrictions are not just an invention of Latvia. They exist all over the world in different ways, in different formats, but they are. The question is something else. The question is that today, when we take any decision - with or without the support of the government's orders - we must recognise that these activities, with certain restrictions, are thought-out, forward-looking, assessed from the point of view of the consequences and so on, and so on, because, let's say, I cannot understand even to this white day - when there was more or less a stable situation with infection, alcohol suddenly, tobacco suddenly became poisons and harmful products when the infection increased, suddenly we return both alcohol and tobacco products to food goods... the first-need list of goods. Where's that logic? But neither is it a story. Haos was, Haos is. For two days, we do as much as we observe how chaos is manifested through government documents. But there is one more important moment. In the Middle Ages, Catholic churches had the concept of indulgence. What does that mean? This means that when a man was about to sin, he bought in church a paper called the indulgence where he was freed from those sins. Today's our decisions... they have the same role as inductive agents. And today, by taking the relevant decisions, supporting government decisions without criticism, without evaluation, without procedures, we come directly to this situation. So when making this kind of decision, what are we doing? We take responsibility as a parliament for any actions formulated in government orders. For any action - what is vital, what is excessive or unnecessary. That is why today the government has a wide range of possibilities to act in an emergency as they do, but no one should take responsibility from the government, including Parliament. We do not have parliamentary control over what is happening in the government on the substance. We reject any request that comes for government action, so it is vitally important, however, to be aware that Parliament is a parliament, that government is a government. But the key is responsibility for what and how we do. In an emergency, it is very important that each person understands why one or the other step has been taken. Every step. And every man. It's not done, it's not reaching people, so panic is formed. And to be honest, chaos comes into your heads. And maybe we should put our heads right at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U19	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U20	Combine immediately in time for me to let up to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U21	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U22	The problem is that the power does not act with the heart, but the power does not act with the foolishness of mind. And that's the problem is that a power that has complete trust - absolutely! - measured, the people don't believe, laugh about power. If they wanted to depend on the public's trust and respect - even a little bit, even this little bit - at the moment, restrictions and regulations should be created not only against the public that will not comply with them (it is absolutely clear that unfulfilled orders will not be carried out), but the power itself should produce publicly measurable results that they intend to achieve in the next period. For example, what will be the number of cases a day, say, in the coming weeks, in two or three years, how many percent of the sick will fall, how many percent or more of the beds will fall... Will you get free in hospitals? And then: what we're going to do at this time - that's what, and that's what, let's say, that's kind of industry and that kind of industry. At this time, the Prime Minister should say that, in these three weeks, we will do such and such works and will be ready for that and that. This should be done by Karin today! Very specific, verifiable, self-defined criteria. But this - this real host's action - will never happen on these specific dates, because it is too bold and, of course, the power will never do. And the most interesting thing is that, even without achieving the goals set and acknowledging that something has failed for some reason, including acknowledging that in some cases power has failed and that decisions taken have not been correct... If power had set itself targets and verifiable results, then... Even then, public trust would change a little, but you will not. You can't think about it. You want to sink to the ground as far as possible, because your Prime Minister is not determined, he is a press secretary of some sort. He is not the manager, the owner, the owner of the state, he is not interested in Latvia. He limits... For example, for the same students - you have decided why you now have to pay full study fees when students do not go to lectures. Why should they pay for everything when they do not receive their service? That is your responsibility! And more importantly, you don't explain to the public, even yourself, the most important: why - why? - You're doing this. Why alcohol is a first need product? You don't explain that. And that's why you laugh. That is, there is a lack of explanation in all of you - why you are doing this. More than that. For example, in order for the whole society to be in the game to be willing to participate, you should explain to every member of the society why he has to do it, why three weeks hairdressers, manicure, pedicurers, all bikini zone waxers have to sit without money. Why? If you don't help them. Why do the massiers have to keep quiet? You mean it won't work? All these people will work quietly. Monday... just come on! Who will check them? The police of Riga municipality will drive and impose penalties on everyone? The more you punish those people who are unemployed, but... what just wants to work, earn some money, the sooner you drop down, because you can't motivate society because you don't make any criteria for yourself. You've just got an inscription on some card that you're the finished boss there. Now let's be honest, what are you leaders?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No one in the Saeima is a big boss. Your sponsors may be big bosses, but not you. Regardless, even if you are Chairman of the Saeima. You have not explained either long-term or short-term goals, results, indicators as you evaluate, objectively evaluate. Who will take responsibility for what happened today? And if we have a rise in 10 days? Well, it can be blessed that it won't happen, because just objectively a man can't fight the mark given by God to us all. I can only imagine that a person can fight it. But if you already say that you can, give objectively measurable results. What else do you have to do? Viņķelis must be released immediately, Šuplinska must be released immediately! Instead, people who finally understand something about health and education need to be replaced. I'm not talking about other things about... How, for example, to keep people away from supermarkets today. That's what Kariņš needs to say: 350 euros for everyone who will stay home by that and that date. For restaurants that can work outside, please let me work outside. Postal services - no registered letters, only electronically or without registered letters. For example, the exemption of real estate tax in 2021. For example, all enforcement proceedings should be suspended now while there is a crisis. Next, perhaps the border should be closed for all tourists, precisely for tourists. Altum provide all entrepreneurs with interest-free loans for five years, for example, or... Not by bombing in the Adajos, but by handing the Ministry of Defence... has been handed over to Linezer, maybe it needs to be repaired... needed, from January could repair, nothing has been done at all, just bombs here to me at the house, I have teeth clinging out of the bombing that is going on next door... And what's the point? No one at all! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U23	Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U24	Good evening! We are approaching the night, and the closer we are at the night, the more serious the problems are being addressed. Let's see what's gonna happen in an hour. I hope that the evening of our speeches will not turn into a steam discharge and the government... There are ears in the government that listen to us now. If there is no feedback for our speeches, then it really does not matter to Parliament, and in reality, the people's Presidents will simply not be able to look quietly in the eyes of their constituents. If not we, who else will tell the government what people think, who are often called one word “the people”. Now try to listen to what our Members have already said. In a row. I fully agree with Evia Papule on the closure of libraries - this is a mistake now. Library books can simply be provided for home reception for this New Year's holidays, this type of reader service is very well tested. I myself am a visitor to the Riga Central Library, I know that the libraries are very accurate, without mistakes, and serve readers quickly. You simply do not allow hundreds of Rigans to spend these long winter evenings reading the book. That, I think, is a mistake. Secondly, I doubt the usefulness of stopping individual sports training. Visiting sports halls to many urban areas is almost the only means of restoring the body’s integrity. This has also been highlighted by experienced doctors, pointing out that ventilation is one of the effective conditions for prevention of the community. I hope that our colleagues - Mr Durys and others, who are doctors who I do not now name immediately - will also confirm this. The visit to the gym can be organised by prior appointment - literally in turn. The discipline of such visits has been examined. I think anyone who wants to visit the gym can find just one hour from early morning to late evening to enjoy this joy. I call on the government officials and members of the government to listen to the recommendations now made by the Members, because they are not just our individual opinions, they are summarised in the experience that the people have indeed shed over the long term. Thank you for your attention. I hope that our conversation will not be in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U25	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U26	Good evening, colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that, yes, I also support the fact that restrictions must be at this time, but they must be reasonable and proportionate. I will talk about the same thing that Evija Papule has already spoken about, and which Igor Pimenov has just spoken about, about libraries. In more detail, I would like to talk about rural libraries. I hope that decision-makers understand that by preventing libraries from working, the Light Network is also closed. This means - this internet created in Latvia is closed... broadband internet access network for people who do not have a computer at home. What does that mean? This means that it does not only affect students and students who have already been talked about; it also affects older people who go to rural libraries to make public service payments to pass on public service messages. It is often the librarians who give them or help them to do these things. So this means that such an exchange of information and such settlement arrangements, which have existed in the country in recent years, are now quite seriously deformed... the duration of this limitation. It's about... I called several rural library managers tonight, literally a few minutes ago, who I know personally, and asked them what they know about the situation. Then I can tell you that these libraries told me that they would have to go to work, that they each had their own individual work plan, which they would do at this time. These are inventory, they are, let us say, various other organisational activities. But what they have pointed out to me is that libraries (for the same 'Light Network', for wireless internet access points) also include people who use libraries in rural areas as their own jobs who come to the library, work, use this wireless access. And the question is, if such people, if it's a library there... Will such people be allowed to enter the library? I guess not, but there's no clear answer. So these are the things that I think should be clarified, and they should be done as quickly as possible, because this ignorance is the one that is most depressing people. That's what I wanted to say, and I really... If possible, please, please, this impreciseness... make these possible clarifications as soon as possible so that people can understand how to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U27	Thank you. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U28	Keeping on the libraries. Thank you to Mr Vucana, that is what I wanted to add, it is clear that libraries are the places where people make payments and payments. And if someone still remembers, almost a month ago we had a passionate discussion about whether and how many people, including seniors, are or are unable to make payments and operate remotely or electronically, paying the bills that the seniors usually consider to be the first compulsory job. At this point... I also hope that Mr Rancāns will respond as to whether the Commission had discussions with professionals (not with the Ministry of Culture, but with a library association, or with someone who actually works in libraries) about whether such restrictions, so strict, in libraries, are necessary, given that there will also be official holidays, not just working days. I'd like to see an answer. And the other. In any case, this debate would have taken place if, at this point in time... Instead of approving the new minister alone, at this point, in this debate on restrictions, there would be a Prime Minister who is personally responsible for these orders. This is not a collective decision. We see that these orders are signed by two people, so that is their responsibility. So I still look forward to seeing Mr. Rancan as the appropriate... The head of the prevention commission, but at this point I also call for the Parliamentary Secretary of the VARAM to be involved in the debate in charge of making or not making electronic payments and whether these people will have the opportunity to do so when the order to close libraries is lifted. Is there another possibility to ask for a review of this order, and the Saeima is still working, including we are planning to review this order on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U29	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U30	Dear colleagues, Colleagues of the opposition, too! This is such a special genre - what the government is asking of us today. The government is not interested in what we think about restrictions in libraries, gyms... or something else. The government wants the Saeima to vote either in favour or against the action plan that the government has already and so... how the government intends to act. I think that this action on the part of the government, and also on the part of the Saeima, is seriously wrong. So, by giving the government some, so to say, a retroactive mandate that 'yes, yes, you do all this well', it is given a very wide mandate to deal with this crisis. I think that, by far the main control to be exercised by the legislator, it is the control of the use of funds. And this is also happening from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima, but the government must have full responsibility for the decisions it makes. And then we will discuss how well the government was dealing with this crisis, both in economic terms and in terms of the number of sick people, the number of dead and so on. You can understand, of course, that the government does not want... I think that anyone who has a good vision, who sees what is happening, is very well aware of why the government does not want to take full responsibility and to put it on the co-legislator, who will then confirm all that the government will do. If the members of the ruling coalition are prepared to conclude such a pact of collective responsibility with the government, then, of course, the members of the ruling coalition are absolutely free to do so, but what is... what would be the right thing to do, colleagues on the legislator's side are not voting in favour of this. How the government is dealing with this crisis is the responsibility of the government. That is why we have a government. And the government has to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U31	Name to Member Juris Rancan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U32	Colleagues! Thank you for this intense debate and, of course, the questions that have been asked. Well, of course, everything is so bad and no one is doing anything, and I see that we have a full opposition with very powerful inectologists and intellectuals who are smarter than any of those called to by the government, and apparently they would be better. I have doubts about that. What I want to say about these libraries... I was asked this question 10 times. Experts, Infectologists, experts, government representatives were invited to the Commission - I would remind you that there is an emergency in the country and an extremely difficult situation with the spread of Covid-19 infection. I would like to say that, to a large extent, this is also due to the fact that the previous strategy was exactly that: to make an exception in one place, the other, the third, the fourth. And at this point, hearing that we should have made some more exceptions, as if we were here... the situation would not be as serious as it is at the moment when hospitals are overloaded and we see more than a thousand sick people... We're still trying something here... play something, make some exceptions. Sorry, at this point, the government, together with experts, Infectologists, took such decisions on the basis of their recommendations. What else do you want? Of course, we have not yet reached a complete lockdown, or Latvian, as it is now translated - a complete restriction on freedom of movement and other strict and harsh restrictions. But these restrictions are aimed specifically at breaking down the disease or the infectious chain. Here you are... I understand those people, but this great message comes from the government: “Well, we endure these three weeks, let’s sit in those homes, and there will be support!” I don't really understand that strategy... Well, the situation is quite difficult at this point, the government has adopted these orders based on expert recommendations - how many times I can say that! What I hear from individual people is unconvincing. They say, “We don’t have information.” I say: “Full media with information! It's all over the Internet! Look!” The man answers: “I don’t look at the media!” So where will you get that information? I'm sorry, people, I'm calling for common sense... whether to respect these restrictions or not to try to say now that we need exceptions in one, second, third, fifth place. In the end, they will say, “Why don’t we have it?” And again, everything that was with them will start... beauty industry, and everything else. And so we will not get the result. I agree that it can always be better, but not the government, nor we in the Commission at any time try to pretend to be the wisest, that we will now make better decisions, instead of Infectologists, that we will know better than all the experts who are involved in stopping this infection, who have been studying for years and who have obtained their diplomas in specific areas. Not us politicians can be smarter than them and pretend. I understand the opposition. I understand why it is said that everything is so bad that there can be no worse. Of course, each of the opposition's will to present what he is a great defender of the people, but I ask you to consider whether this is the right time, whether the emergency situation is the right place and the time to try to raise your popularity ratings and tell you all kinds of stories about how bad everything is, how nobody does nothing better. I'm sorry, colleagues, the government, experts, medical doctors, policemen, all those involved, and the Saeima also works! So I call on everyone to respect these restrictions and endure for three weeks. It's gonna be all open afterwards, and everyone can work. Thank you. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U33	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U34	Colleagues, Mr. Ranzan, I hope you understand that we already have nothing... we, Members, have absolutely no problem with how to survive this bear, because I, like you, have a stable salary and there is no worry about how we will survive this. As long as this body of liquidators, who feed on taxpayers' money and not those people, is working in the government, experts... who earn money and not money from taxpayers, but who are also business representatives, representatives of the business environment in this working group - while there are no such people, we will continue to receive such illogical and silly decisions because those who are currently working on these restrictions are liquidators, the Sharikova team. They are not people with hearts and minds. They don’t think about people, they’re just thinking, “Well, bear on what’s going on for you, money will go into account, and you’ll be able to live like that.” They don't understand just basic things. There must also be other people in this working group who understand how money in general arises, that it does not appear in the bank account every month by itself. And as long as people don't understand it... In the meantime, we'll continue to hurt... you will continue to hurt people. If we talk about Mrs. Viņķele - while she will continue to count on her hearth, not to think about how many beds she has left in the hospital, then we will continue to roll down. And these restrictions have now been announced, at the last moment, so that people are standing in the shops, only to say after 10 days of cynical Kariņš: “You don’t learn to behave. Look at the numbers we have! Everybody sit home!”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U35	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U36	Thank you. It seems to me that the rapporteur does not really understand what this is about. It is not about this: being, or not being, restricted, but it is about a number of things. The first is the responsibility. Liability cannot be collective, it is always individual. None of the Infectologists you mentioned - none of them has recorded any points, no words in government orders. It is written by officials to formulate ideas expressed by inectologists. That's a very different thing. Today, Karina, rather than you, should report on what the government does, how she does it, and what she thinks to do. Second moment. Once again, it is about responsibility and the sound development of public administration in a crisis situation. It cannot be that an emergency situation has been declared in the country, but that emergency situation also appears afterwards in health care. The second may be that, indeed, if the healthcare system is not prepared for a pandemic, it is an emergency, but in a general emergency, it is a sacred thing that the government must take care of precisely this. It is the government, not the Ministry of Health. That is why I say once again: it is about responsibility and understanding of every person. That's our common thing. It's a pandemic affecting every family, every city, every city, every region. Consequently, combating the pandemic is our common task. And to do it better, more efficiently and with better results - it is not only a matter of honour, but also a matter of responsibility. What the government is doing today is a great chaos, opposed by the opposition and, more generally, by any normal person in an opposition or position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U37	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U38	Thank you. I understand very well the bitterness of Mr Rancán, because it is his responsibility to organise the discussion and adoption of a specific draft decision. I also understand his concerns about the authority of the government. At the same time... Mr Rancāns, the subject of our discussion is now a specific document, and it is called: the Saeima's decision by which the Saeima decides to support the Cabinet's decision to adopt appropriate measures. It is a document that we are now discussing. It is not that we simply take note of what has been taken into account at the government house on Freedom Street. Now we are already in a situation where we are truly responsible for policies that the country, the government and the Saeima, are pursuing in the very difficult circumstances of the pandemic. That is why Members' attempts to influence events are logical. Please understand. This is not an attempt to just be smarter than the Infectologists who consulted you at the committee meeting. It is about the fact that, on the other hand, there is also experience that has already proved... yourself. I'm talking about gyms, we're talking about libraries... There is an opportunity to organise these events wisely, not... simply try to ban access to such measures - I think it is a mistake. Just try to listen to what Members are saying now. It's not a big policy, it's just an attempt...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U39	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U40	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! Yeah, well, the medicine really works... and apologies people for unthinking and chaotic government decisions. They work with policemen and risk their health and, perhaps, their lives, ensuring that decisions are taken by the government, including chaotic ones. Firefighters work, which also provide the most necessary support and security for the people of Latvia in emergency situations. They shall all serve and carry out their duties and shall be subject to instructions and regulations which the Government shall adopt and publish. But... Perhaps the government and the public should start to work - not just work, work and work (I do not know what part of the body they work with), but try to work with the mind and try to connect their intelligence by making decisions and performing their duties. And that's why there's this debate today, too, which shows them... probably missed from attention... or where the mind or common sense has not been attached to the decisions made, so that they can be adjusted and considered... And indeed that despair is not because someone works, but because people who should think from the beginning and then implement its thoughts in documents... work with intelligence and the brain, not with any other part of the body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U41	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U42	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! Today's decision to confirm the state of emergency announced by the government... This is by no means a simple decision. And I would, of course, like to experience the moment when such issues are dealt with by both the position and the opposition in the Saeima together and together get to know the maximum information about the circumstances, making these decisions together, involving all levels of power. At present, however, this is a draft decision imposed by the government; it has not, by its very nature, undergone any major changes in the Saeima. That is also the parallel work of the Saeima and the various political debates that existed before this decision - its main activity is from the government. And, of course, now, in front of this issue, it is hoped that the opposition will also vote on it. But today, there has already been a debate about the fact that the heads of the civil commission may not be able to come to this information in good time... I think those municipal leaders who are interested in these things really want to help. And the raising of government by asking questions, or the raising of politicians, what will then do with this information... They want to help the government in the fight against the Covid-19 crisis and get some stability, because at the moment confidence in the government is very low, and we see people sticking to these rules. This is mainly because this confidence is very low. And municipal leaders who have much higher trust among the population... especially in areas where they are local government leaders... quite simply, they are not involved enough so that they too can help. And in this case, a decision has been taken on which the opposition expresses its concern... After consultation also with experts... And these examples of librarians, examples... There are many other things that should be assessed and done in Parliament as far as possible in a collegial manner. The Saeima Commission, I think, is not the only place to do this... and shape... how to agree with the opposition on draft decisions, how to introduce one or the other restrictions... What - maybe more - maybe less... In this case, I think that a very large part of the public administration, which is local authorities, has been missing. Although Latvian Municipal Union participates, Latvian Municipal Union participates in... It's not the same thing as... if there are many local government managers who... in a direct link... could tell you what happened. I am also working with local government leaders, and I know that there are those who really do everything the government has decided to do and who are following it, and that is all, and it is also limited to their actions. Some really watch the day and night as they can help, but this help remains just like their own desire. There are also cases where they are still concerned that they are trying to do better with one or the other. I will vote today in favour of this draft decision, but I will vote in favour only in order not to create any more confusion. And I call on the government and the government coalition to involve more directly the opposition on these issues, because we also represent a very large part of the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U43	Thank you, Mr. Valaiņš. Mr Jurģis Miezainis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, is taking part in our debates again. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U44	Dear President, High honourable Members! Thank you very much to the opposition for this criticism, perhaps in our direction, but what I would like to say is to look a little bit further. Now... We live in a difficult time, a situation that surprises the world not more than once every hundred years. No decision is easy, and no decision is perfect, but the goal... The objective is to save human lives. At present, each decision has a life price. This is a price that we, all of us here, must be aware of. Fathers of Latvia, when creating the Constitution, wrote: “Everyone’s right to life is protected by the law.” Our responsibility and responsibility is to protect every human life by all means and even a little more when the forces are over. All the funds and still a little when the funds have come to an end. I call for my debates to be brought together.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U45	Your time is combined. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U46	It is now working for our medical staff - for every effort and for a little more when the forces are over. These restrictions are not a choice: they are a necessity for citizens, for medical practitioners and for the economy. Yes, even for the economy, because the existence of such, long-term high, indicators is paying a great deal for small, medium-sized business. This time is mostly a time of peace before Christmas. This time is an opportunity for our entrepreneurs to resume their work fully with the new year. We must stop this disease, keeping every person in Latvia the right to life. We must stop this disease in order to keep every citizen of Latvia able to work, as well as to resume working in professions for which they have dedicated their lives. These decisions are not easy. I feel even physical pain when making such decisions, but this is the time to join our country, this is the time when every person's responsibility and responsibility is to do everything he can to help stop this disease chain. And here I speak for myself. I too was sick. I stopped the chain with all the experts' recommendations. Thank you very much to our doctors, SPPC. My chain stopped with me. What I would like to call everyone to is to help each other, give us a helping hand! If we see someone is tough, let's help! Let's just help the doctors to stay home! Not the government, and not the Saeima, will save our country; they will help us, but we can save it, every one of us with our actions and the work and the art of our efforts. A true hero is every person who has done everything possible to stop and prevent illness. Heroes define self-freedom and the ability to place other or common interests above their own. I call on everyone to be heroes to their own country and to stop the spread of this virus. God bless Latvia!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U47	Thank you to the Parliamentary Secretary for taking part in the debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U48	I have only one question for Mr Miezaiņa - and where was the government, where was the Minister for Health, where was the Minister for Finance, where was the Minister for the Interior since March this year? Where were they? What did they do to prevent us from being where we are today? Where were the public administration officials who already had to plan and draw up a number of plans in March - A, B and C - what to do in any situation? Where have they been? Why are such decisions now made? Because public administration and ministers act unprofessionally, indecently and unwisely. And don't weep now and weep now! We had to just work and do our job professionally and wisely... work that has not been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U49	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U50	Good evening, colleagues! I call for the entire farce to end more quickly. All this, which is currently happening, reminds an episode that arrives in the black implementor, that is, a cheater who commits cheating on real estate, and tries to deceive blind pensioners, old mom, to cheat on her necessary decision and be able to proceed with her property. That is what is happening at the moment. This huge farce is played, that Latvia seems to be a democratic, legal state in which power, as it is written in the Constitution, belongs to the people of Latvia. And that's why the fraudster is here to cheat... to cheat on them this right and get it on their own, trying to get a signature then in this deceptive way... the necessary signature, in this case the decision of the Saeima. Because, in fact, if someone really interested in making the Saeima really decide about it, and who would care about this decision, then we wouldn't do it here now, at night. Then this sitting would not have been convened a few minutes before... We learned at all about this sitting a few minutes before it was convened. It's all just a big start, a huge farce, a ridicule about Latvia as a legal, democratic state. If someone wants to take part in it - please take part, I do not personally consider this to be the right thing. Because indeed, as Mr Dolgopolov rightly said, someone has come after an indulgence for his sins, so that we can betray it. Why do we do that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If someone really had an interest in our opinion, what... what we still do (A sound defect.) ... here to decide, then it would have been done in a meaningful way, not as it is now. Simply so that the political cartel legitimises its smallness, its irresponsibility, shift it to our shoulders. Do we have to deal with this right now? Even more so, the situation is so serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U51	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 17 December 2020 No. 777 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 65, for - 5, for - 15. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We have worked for one and a half hours; the system now also needs a break. Please get everybody out of the system. I am currently registering the presence of Members. This has happened. We go for a break until 21:25, and the request is all out of the system, and it is desirable to restart the computers. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U52	Dear colleagues, We shall continue to examine the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 18 December 2020. On the agenda - reports by the Saeima Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 17 322 Latvian citizens “Let children breathe freely in school””. Please activate the section on the procedure. It shall be activated to determine whether Members have objections to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting. If someone has reservations, please apply. There is no objection. Thus we will consider the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 17 322 Latvian citizens “Let children breathe freely in school””. Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U53	Mrs. Spīkers! Colleagues! Good evening! Yes, on 3 December 2020, the Saeima received a collective application from 17 322 Latvian citizens “Let children breathe freely in school”. And the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications in its meeting of 16 December this year evaluated this collective application – the citizens' initiative, which calls for the government's decision to withdraw the mandatory wearing of facial masks for pupils of grades 1-4 from 4 January 2021. The Commission heard the views of both the authors of the initiative, experts, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. The experts pointed out that the government's request in the Citizens' Initiative was based on evidence and that it was a compromise to maintain the quality and accessibility of education for pupils in grades 1-4. We also heard from a representative of the Hospital at the Clinical University of Children, who highlighted the critical situation in the country regarding health care capacity and the spread of the virus and called for strict follow-up of expert recommendations in order to overcome this crisis, including the use of masks in schools as stipulated in the government decision. We also heard from the trade union representative of Latvian Education and Science Workers, who highlighted several issues related to the Government's decision and its implementation. We also heard the views of a number of Members. And on the basis of all these heard opinions, the Commission found that it was necessary to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers again, to reassess the order of 6 November 2020. 655. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima requesting to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out the said assessment. The Commission asks the Cabinet to assess this again. Thank you on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U54	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U55	Dear colleagues, At this late night's hour, continuing the debate on very important and national decisions, I would really like to call on colleagues from the coalition to think maybe that, if any travel has been bought, then you would like to think of these trips in the same way... can continue to broadcast Saeima sittings... And maybe it should really be thought that such decisions are not made in the blacks of the night. But if we are talking about this initiative, I must say thank you... I too... I also had the opportunity to listen to this commission meeting and to the experts' views... the views of those experts... not only those experts who tried to shame the initiative applicants with emotional arguments, but also psychologists, child psychologists, opinions, and representatives of educators. Children's psychologists and educators' representatives made a very clear picture of the situation that will arise at school when children are obliged to wear masks, and they were very understandable about these concerns and these problems that will really be created, firstly, by forcing them to wear these masks in a mandatory way, and secondly, by making teachers, in fact, to keep teachers with them to do so - to keep track of how children wear masks... whether children really wear masks properly. And one of the problems that may not have been expressed during the committee's meeting was this. The representatives of the teachers are very concerned about the situation when... The teachers will feel responsible if one of the children gets ill by carrying these masks. If so, don't give it to God! - a child or a member of the child's family will get sick, then the teacher will have to feel guilty, because, as we know, teachers are very responsible people, they always think about whether they have done everything correctly, whether they have really taken care of all the children or not. This is really one of the many problems, one of the many issues that we should discuss... Well, not now in the black of the night, but at normal times - so that society can also follow the decisions made by the Saeima. Yes, I see - colleagues who have also applied here, who will definitely close their emotional arguments now, and, like Mrs Snipes from the Children's Clinical University Hospital, will tell us about the over-exploitation of doctors, about the fact that the virus is very dangerous and that it is spreading very quickly, and that people become infected mass and die unfortunately... That the doctors are overloaded and the doctors die - we hear all this every day. We are very sorry that this is happening. We understand that very many of the sick, including our colleagues, friends, yes, but... However... Colleagues, if we hear such arguments from the doctors, if we hear arguments that there is currently a state of war in medicine, then that is, I will repeat to you, the cynical mountain, especially from the doctor's mouth, - to say that children must continue to learn. It is the hillside of cynicism for those epidemiologists who draw up all these orders of the Cabinet of Ministers that help to draw up these orders... continue to place the children in the kindergarten. That is, the Saeima has just voted in favour of this emergency order, which states, among other things, that although everything is hard, kindergartens continue to work. Why? It has a very simple explanation. Very simple! Because it's a lot more interesting for the government to make purchases for children's masks than to pay each parent's idle allowance so that the older child is not allowed to go to school, not let the kindergarten in such a war as you yourself... Colleagues... Mrs. Chash, too, and Mrs. Snipes... like you say, in war conditions. I do not understand, I do not know, really, who specifically motivates you to behave in this way and to motivate you in this way and how much this motivation costs, but I would really like to know the person responsible for this purchase - a person who is interested in making this purchase of masks. And we'll find out very soon. We will find out those who are ready to bring their children into war with their educators and ready to “take up” for all these purchases. Colleagues! If we are really talking about the dangerous spread of the virus, if we are talking about the situation now being critical (and soon we will hear from Mr Kariņš that we will not be able to leave home at all!) then about a school that you ever allow to talk about! And what masks do you even allow to talk about now, if the only one that can protect children and adults from the spread of the virus is a mask that is medically certified mask, not fabric... some piece of paper or fabric cloth that you are currently going to buy! Only and only - certified, disposable (for two hours) mask! What you want to do at the moment - you want to put children in a war with play weapons. Those toy weapons are those masks, those rags that you buy definitely five times more expensive than they cost, and you'll be happy about that, because you've done a lot of work - instead of paying every parent who helps a child to learn on the computer and who keeps his or her children at home, this allowance... because it is not interesting for you - this allowance cannot be cut through your car, this machine, which makes you interested in all the competitions. That will not be interesting to you. Colleagues, if one of the coalitions is still dared to come and say that there is a virus, that doctors are sick, then ask yourself what remedies have been bought by doctors, why are they so much sick, and are you not to blame? Therefore, my fellow Members, of course, call for this government's decision to be reviewed, but I do not believe that you will do so, because you, the honourable coalition, just a few minutes ago or an hour ago, voted in favour of the same government's decision - 'for' the mandatory mask for children. Don't be hypocritical! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U56	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U57	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We have a specific application that has been signed by the signatories, and it says that we should review this decision, so remove these masks from 4 January... So review the decision to introduce masks in schools. I was just looking at statistics for countries where these masks are mandatory... compared to Latvia. Two relatives study in France. One began to go from five... It's six years now... in the first class, and the second is seven years old, she goes in the second class. Let's compare it. They must wear these masks at school, but what is the situation in France and Latvia? France has 67 million inhabitants (to this June), Latvia has 1.92 million. So there's 34.89 times more people in France... with a density of approximately three times. They're here today... I looked at today's statistics. In France, 18 254 have been ill and 258 have died. 892, dead in Latvia - 15. So against the Latvian population - against 1.90 million... In Latvia, I'll repeat it again, - 892, France... 523... died in Latvia 15, in France... 7,39... France has a three times higher population density and dies almost twice as much, and it's about 40... 40 percent less. An interesting theory that is being disseminated, but it's not really right... I asked this five-year-old, now six-year-old child with those masks? You know, the answer was, "There's no one even going to think about wearing this mask." I also agree with Julia that there must be quality masks - no one disputes this - but I am here on statistics... I do not think that the European Union at all is some good example. I only mentioned France because I was able to make sure that five - year - old children were carrying these masks. My granddaughter is in the first class of Marupe, and they also have these masks. She has no problem carrying it. I don't know where that problem is. But I agree with the signature... the applicant in one question - that perhaps very important - and perhaps as important - factor is air quality... oxygen content and inhaled carbon dioxide. In this respect, Latvia could show an example, because it is in Latvia... ‘SAF Technical’ produces... produces these air analyses... those small boxes which determine the air quality, the amount of carbon dioxide that has been exhaled. They are not too expensive and are now very common in the world. Even CNN showed that it is a Latvian product; even the United States buys, yes, and European countries. I wonder why the Minister of Education and Science is not showing any interest in these air analysis boxes. So... Obviously, it is an organizational work - at which point to ventilate, how to bring children either in the corridors or outside the school. It's organizational work, but it's not about masks. Of course, my favorite example... Can there be a country that has actually stopped this disease and that is not taken over by the World Health Organisation? You know, it's Taiwan. Data published today... I will tell you that 757 people have died in Taiwan all year, not this day. The last one died sometime in April or May... in spring, no one died afterwards. To almost 24 million people... Seven people died on 24 million people. We're already in hundreds... Who, then, should be responsible for those who have died? How... Is that so? I think that those decisions taken by the government must have some effect. I'd be... and also the suggestion... I would have supported much more dramatic proposals. We use the modern word “locdaun” and in Australia... as the linguists said, they use, for example... English-speaking people too... they don’t say lockdown, but say “quarantine”. Old, good quarantine where... there can be different ways... Obviously, we should close everything for a few weeks at all. I understand that this is difficult and that it causes various problems. And I should have started with borders. Since we have a coalition from different parties, of course, the minister of each party must appear before his constituents: we cannot close borders. It is logical that it was not this society that emerged in Latvia, that it was introduced and continues to be introduced by hockeys from Russia, from the former CIS countries, from elsewhere. But I repeat these two examples... Taiwan has stopped air traffic with China already at the end of December, with other countries in January. And they didn't need a long time... And introduced masks at the beginning of January. As I said, I agree that the main problem is obviously child care and bad air in schools. This is a separate issue that needs to be addressed, but it is not in any way linked to the requirement to abolish masks. I think that would be a really stupid thing. This application contains one extremely interesting sentence: children are not the largest sick people. The fact that they are not the largest sick is perhaps true, but that they are the largest vectors is true. And I will give you one example again. You remember there was a statement that there were tens of patients in Vecpiebalga district right away... suddenly! There was this community on the teacher's tour... The masks were, of course, not mandatory, as you know... She was, by the way, a singer, and immediately, with this virus, dozens of students were released, who, of course, did not experience much of what they had received, that is true. But they went home and all their parents went around... No masks... So... apparently, in the light of the experience in Taiwan... Perhaps a wise man will come here and tell him that he knows a country that has achieved better results without masks. But here I refer specifically to the same example of France: there schools work, they work on the spot and they will work, they will not be closed. And why did I mention France, and why do I like it? Because there's... At first, there were catastrophic results. Let us remember the situation and mortality there in spring. There are better results than in Latvia today. And the other country, of course, is Taiwan, where it doesn't even come to someone's mind to take this mask out in a public place or in a school. There would be a prison sentence for it right away. So that I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U58	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U59	Good evening! I want to speak as a Member of the Saeima and as a father of small children. And I'd like to say to all the barbers, the snippets, the chatteres and all the others: those who hit small children, including my children, the finger, I'm not just going to think of them as the Gentiles, the populists, but... And I'm not the only one... Come on, kids, play. And I'll explain - statistically and otherwise - to all these demagogians... Let's start with doctors. Those doctors who scare the whole society... Before you scare the public, you should honestly say that the secret that exists in the health system is because the chaos in the health system has been a year old, and you are afraid to say that. You are afraid to say that about the government that has allowed it! You don't pay your wages, you pick up - and then bend and ask forgiveness to the government. That's the number one. Number two. You, the doctors or the Sharlatans who say it's okay for child psychology, for psycho, for having to impose something like that on them... Who are you doctors then? Are you really concerned about children’s health? Which little child, who does everything with his hands all the time and is dirty from morning to night... will he have a mask?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I speak as a dad, not as a Member now. It's a bad thing for little children. Improperty, to the highest degree Improperty! This has not been demonstrated in any clinical... Neither statistical nor scientific indicators, anywhere. You got masks for how long? A month? Look at the statistics in Latvia with all your masks with which you walk. Look at the statistics! And now you say, 25 people die a day... I read it yesterday, 25 people... I read that out of those 25 people, 18 people, 18 people! - were over 75 years of age. Unfortunately, yes, in life it happens... In Latvia, the average life expectancy is less for men... Seventy-five, 85, 90 years of age, let God give us all this life! So why don't you be more honest about their statistics, too? Fairer! I understand that there are some hospitals full, but I have to be honest about which are full and which are empty and not always afraid that there will be an immediate resuscitation... or something else. How long are you gonna scare the whole society?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We all understand, we're not silly. We understand that there is an overload, but perhaps a fair start? Where is the problem? What are risk groups? Children are at risk, huh? They're carriers. They're with the ninety-five-five-year-olds who die in the hospital... or seventy-five years... Is that so? If they are with their parents who are at my age, which also... You can get sick, die... can. Yes, I agree - you can. We can all do it. Why do you not fear that cancer can happen every day? Hundreds of thousands of patients in Latvia suffer from cancer - an incurable disease, among other things. You've never been scared... Now you're scared of resuscitation. Every day you drive people under stress, desperately. And now you're gonna make little kids walk in masks... And Mr. Kirštein can safely put on his grandchildren masks and everything that gets in mind, but you don't need to manipulate the statistics! You need to look at how these statistics are developing in Latvia! If you can't figure out anything, come up with masks. It's like it's going to be the means to help. Miracle in Latvia, huh? All summer did nothing, there were champions all the time. Say, we're such champions here, and everything's going on. And now? Now there are all these champions at the sharp stake, all this “failure story” and all the rest. You are not ashamed - to impose something like that on young children! In Soviet times... I guess some Soviet-era products they're... You know how healthy children live? When are they happy? When they're happy. When they don't force anything on them. Then when they go out. When they are dirty, smashed, all black with the ground when they have bacteria, everything else when they don't wash their hands from morning to night. When they live their lives - they are happy, they are healthy and sick. You know when they're sick? I'll tell you when they're sick. Children get sick when doctors force them on masks. So when they're restricted. When they're told to do something that's putting them under stress, they're sick. Then they're sick! When they're unhappy, then they're sick! And you don't have to be a doctor to understand. But that's the problem... its main problem is that you are now with all these face... For all these false measures, you will now limit the community. You kids are coming! Not just my... many, thousands... Your children will be present, and this will be a miracle for you. Or would you, doctors, have to come out once and say that you've been down all the way to the clown until the last one has been down the health care system, and that's what the government did? And every crisis decided that something... In this crisis, it was decided that the health system had been brought down to the ground. A you are afraid to say that! You're afraid to say it because you're now paying big wages... Relatively... one part... Okay. You are redrafted, I agree. One part of Riga hospitals has processed, I agree with you. And you need some help, too. I agree. But you are like those who are in power. That's right! You may be offended; no matter what you can say about me, it is true. You are not talking about substance. You're not talking about having empty hospitals in Liepaja, there's a repair at the moment, or what, in Cesis, is empty... Liner... The Ministry of Defence has not repaired for this moment, nothing happens. There is no sick person in Dobele, leading to Jelgava. What's in Kuldiga, Talsi? I understand that Jēkabpils is full, Daugavpils is full... And so on... But perhaps, honestly, tell us what kind of care system we have and whether it comes from children or from the fact that this power, which has been in place for many years, has allowed it. And now some business is going to be there again -- a mask business. One didn't come. No, now it's time to make something, just supplied you with the shit last. And now you're saying that those gauzes... I'm in my pocket, by the way, that gauze or who's there... clothing cloth... I need to wash it out, she's standing there for a month, it's in her pocket... Is that medicine? It's sarlatanism, not medicine. And if we look at those mortality rates... Yes, mortality rates... In fact, mortality rates do not depend on how much you become ill. Mortality rates depend on the ability of the healthcare system. And let's compare it with Sweden's own mortality rates and age groups. Of course, every life is important. I don't remember that last year this whole power and coalition would have fought for a pensioner living at EUR 80 per month... that they care for the life of the pensioners, all the pensioners in those homes. I don't remember that it would have been important to someone last year. Now suddenly the pensioner became important, now - every life important... All the suicides that are committed... lines... lines... Just hundreds of people... It's not important if? Everyone who goes with cancer doesn't matter? That's all... You don't care? Also, those who go out because of heart disease... That's all, isn't it? Forgive an emotional talk, but if you touch your children, hundreds of thousands of other people who love their children will also respond. Some old Communists, I'm sorry, who they are, will now tell you how they're there... I don't know... somewhere...! We don't have to watch it there, France, or we don't know where it is. We have to look at us. And why do we have it? Because we had those children in prison in the summer - they said that everyone would have to sit in one class all day... On in the same class. It has already been said in spring that we must not do that! Mrs. Emptyness or Mrs. Šuplinska - what did she do? All summer, there were those champions or something else... Now it's gonna start thinking. We're gonna start thinking in two shifts from January... These are all political decisions - your decisions, not the fault of children. Children, by the way, are not those who on that day before Christmas, when you knock everything down, now hold all those supermarkets. It's your fault that people's supermarkets are now standing. It's your fault that there are full buses with people. The fault of Kirštein, who votes all the time for “for”, “for”, “for” or “to”, “to”, “to”! Everything against people... There, in all such votes, he is “for” it. When there is something illogical, then – “for”. And then wonder! I have no doubt that we will go down these figures after this madness that has happened here today, yesterday and the night before. After all these illogical decisions. You've seen... Is that so? I was in it yesterday... What's it called... Statoil (I call it Statoil), and before me a gentleman of my age stood, he had that medical mask, he had it blacker than my fabric in black. Of course he was... I think it wasn't late for two months... He didn't even delay it, I think he didn't. And now you're thinking about who you're going to deliver who you're not going to deliver... and so on. These are your decisions, not your children's responsibility. I'm sorry I'm so emotional, I'm sorry, but if any of you, whatever you're on the card, touch my kids, I don't think about yourself. And I know many other parents don't think so. My children live a happy, full life, and they don't get sick precisely because they don't listen to everyone, I'm sorry, I'm idiots. Because they're allowed to have dirty mouths, because they're allowed to play out. Because they didn't get stuck in a quarantine room or somewhere else... because they're allowed to have children. And because they are happy for life and loved. What you're doing is neither love nor science nor medicine - nothing is it! What you claim is not proof of anything, absolutely nothing: no statistics prove it, no clinic proves it. No science proves this. And you, medical professionals, should perhaps talk - honestly talk - about how many of them are wrong in PCR tests? How much? How much? And maybe we only need to talk about what is physically present in the hospital, and how many of those who are in the hospital have other conditions? Just be honest. I do not doubt that the hospitals are full. I'm not questioning this, indeed, by the word of honor. But you're not talking about it! You're just scared that we're all gonna be in a resuscitation with those ventilated machines right away. By the way, anyone who has read such things says that the ventilated apparatus should not be put on people, but they should be avoided as much as possible. Listen to the German doctors! A in our press? Everywhere you read and listen, that's all it says: now everyone will be in resuscitation, everyone will be at the ventilated apparatus! That, by the way, is the worst thing that can be in the community of the patient - put on the ventilated apparatus. One way! It's better not to put him there. Listen to the German doctors! And start by the fact that the collapse of medicine, in the health care system, is not because of children, but because of this power which you serve. And to whom you write... You wrote one such angry letter, and in a week's time you fell into the knees... written the way you needed it. He must have called from above and said that he should not be so hard to write. You call for forgiveness to those who do not vote for your wages. So, what were you going to protest? What, then, do you complain? Why should you defend yourself if you are not honest about it? Why should you defend yourself if you are just afraid, afraid, afraid, afraid? If you still want to help you, you must also be honest. Then both sides must be honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U60	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U61	Colleagues! Mr. Kirstein, learn to read and count, please. If we look at statistics... You mentioned France. I don't know where you took your data, I'm taking official statistics on the community. So, 37 149 per million sick people are in France on 17 December, 15 079 are in Latvia for one million sick people on 17 December. In France there are 2.5 times higher rates than in Latvia, and you are now allowing to say that these masks that children have to carry have improved these statistics in some way in France. Stop lying! If we are talking about air quality in schools - take the numbers, take the Health Check data: 78 percent of the premises, school rooms, have a medium level of air quality, 20 percent of schools are poor. Why? Because schools were renovated inappropriately; because there are packet windows and ventilation is very poor. I do not think that there is a similar situation in France. And the fact that you recommend buying... current games from Aranet... Yes, it will be another procurement where someone will be very happy and happy again. Of course, then we'll need to put these devices on each class on the table, and you'll be proud to take care of your children. Yeah, sure. If we continue on this subject... Let's hear another hypocritical doctor who has now applied to scare everyone here, Mr. Skride, who doesn't care about pregnant women. If we are talking about Mr Skride's care for people, we know that Mr Skride's commission is stuck in a very large number of draft laws, including a bill submitted by the opposition on the care of pregnant women during a pandemic. From March! We know that Mr Skrides does not care what happens to these women, because he is more important than ideological things in his commission. And now we'll hear about how sick people die in his hands, and we'll hear about how many doctors are overexploited. Ask their friend Viņķelis why people are overexposed! Ask them why they have inappropriate masks! And stop using emotional arguments and human death to run your shameless mask procurement competitions! Anyone who says today... speak in favour of masked children, will be personally responsible for this procurement, which has already been negotiated and steered in such a way that the specific people benefit from it. Colleagues, this is a shameless act on your part - try to cover up with figures for a pandemic, with dying people to earn money on it. And you're not medical. Mr. Skride, you're not a doctor! You must pass on your doctor’s certificate. You have to be concerned, as I said, about other people we want to take care of. You're just moving your personal affairs. Shame! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U62	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U63	Thank you, Mrs Stepanenko, for your fantastic comments. But now it's happened that I have a number of certificates and patient-satisfaction studies... with me... with my job... is also good enough. I would like to add that the polymerase chain reaction or PCR mentioned by Mr Gobzem is one of the most accurate... actually 99.9 percent... the most accurate methods of virus detection that we use in medicine, and that is the case, and there will be no more accurate methods. And for ventilating apparatus. Yes, you know, it's like the intensive pressure masks are put on before the ventilated apparatus, but it's like the intensive pressure masks don't save everyone from the need for intubation. And believe me if... if someone you know... if you're supposed to be in a situation... if you have to choose... Or your colleague... really continue to save him or not, you, believe me, choose, yes, continue to save him. And with the ventilation... It's not over with intubation. Everything goes on with the ECMO system, which is an artificial lung, and, you know, it's very difficult... to my colleagues, too... even your colleagues, who may even need to be consulted... In resuscitation... What I've done... administer an artificial lung device. And the fact that these masks are really needed... There have been several discussions in the Commission, but once again, I would like to emphasise a very, very simple case, which was also pointed out by all the experts, both the SPPC, the Ministry of Health and Dr Snipe, from a children's hospital - that the mask is indeed an effective means of carrying the virus forward... distribution... not only protect children but also teachers. I stress that very many of our teachers who teach, who teach, who teach, are already... 20 or 30 years old, but there are people with a lot of experience who are at a much higher risk of getting ill. So I think that this government decision has been right, but the Commission has also asked, of course, for this decision to be reviewed again, to be discussed with experts again. In fact, if we look at the level of evidence, it is clear that the government's decision has been correct. Thank you. That's all from me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U64	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U65	Yeah, for the second time. That's... I just admire that cynicism, that... Also Flying cynicism - through their desiccation... And something else... Let's talk about how cancer kills... with or without food. Let's talk about how difficult it is! Do we talk about what happens to a person who has a stroke or when someone else... I don't know, breast cancer or prostate cancer or... or when he's so desperate that he has to play. Let's talk about it! Let us talk about how terrible it is to remove from the rock a relative who is in despair. Let's talk about it! You're talking just about connecting to ventilation... Statistically, there are relatively few such cases, thank God. It's all manipulation--this is the scare that... That's, by the way, your job, doctor. Your job, you've sworn to do this. It's not a heroic work, it's your job that you promised to do. Like other professions, you promised to do something. And you knew where you were going. And we can help you, but not with foolish decisions. A month ago, we made a silly decision about masks. What happened? The statistics improved or deteriorated? Masks help or don't help? Yes, you were taught that they were helping, but in real life they were helping? Helps or doesn't help? What do real statistics show? And a few more things. I would call on those who have no children, Andris Skride, not to express them as children. You obviously! - Children are not interested. That's my subjective opinion. You also do not understand about children because you do not have children. Those who have children... I think that all people who have children will agree with what I say as a father of children - what children, how they act. How medical... It's logical that a child who's always on the move, who's always having hands somewhere... This is, this is, there is... doesn't know where... he's heading to the ground... As my Axel - he goes into a supermarket, just falls down and glows down the ground, and you can't do anything to him because he's a child. Then he takes away and eats something with dirty hands. That's because he's a child. Others will say, “Oh, horror, oh, horror!” But the children live this way. And they should be allowed to live this way, and I wouldn't want to steal the childhood of children with all these decisions made by pseudo-politicals here and all these decisions here... You'll be right here, too... Anda, I know you're about to talk... You're like a cool woman and you're like that, but the fact that you're with that unity and all of it... All those, I'm sorry, stupid... Now let's buy Aranet. You know who makes it? Mr Bergs, Secretary General of Unity. Berg, I think there's not enough money to buy, so the country needs to make a purchase. But we need to talk about how much Unity has stolen in the health care system, how many are all those pharmaceuticals... all those cartels and all... We need to talk about it! We need to talk about how many hospitals have been launched (to the clown everything!) How much do we pay to nurse or sanitary, how much we lack doctors. Thousands are missing. It's really missing because they never paid. For nurses, the cost of sanitation is less than... I don't know... than you did in a supermarket. And then we wonder that there is overload. At 700 or how many beds we wonder that there is overload in Latvia. What would happen if there were war? I'm sorry about that... It's really vulgar, but... I'm sorry, but that's my last word... You can call me Mandate, ethics and application commission, but... If we had war, then... I think in that case, Pabrik to us here... OK, I won't say, you got it. Our health system's collapse is simply because doctors are leaving Latvia, simply - away! Thousands - with all the nurses! That's why. Not because of children's masks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U66	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U67	Yeah... Okay. Seems now... I'll show you... It's like... I guess it's hard to see... See where the so-called Worldometer is, and you can put France on. And here are the dates. It's like in the mirror... I guess it turns out the other way around, huh? That's special for Julia Stepanenko. And I'm not talking about a year... Because France was the biggest... the country with the greatest mortality, but I am talking about the fact that it managed to reduce it by introducing these masks in all schools as well. And specifically... The data that's here like... See today's published... repeat: 18 254, and new cases 258. Here some wise men referred to the miscounting of us. I don't know. I simply refer to elementary statistics that are available for all countries. Mr. Gobzem may criticise... it may be that there are its statistics wrong; it may be that the World Health Organization... I don't know who brings all this together, I just read it. But when it comes to older people, there are many more old people in Japan than in Latvia and many more centenarians, but there... Today's data - 3035 people are ill, 44 dead (for more than 120 million people). Sixty-five times more... So in relation to Latvia, it would be about 46 infected per day, and dead - less than one. So... statistics and statistics. Of course, China... and here I can argue that China is a totalitarian country, and I fully agree - there really was quarantine in cities. We know one businessman who worked in China, in a city where there are twice as many people... A small city, according to the scale of China, - four million. They were forbidden to leave home in the spring. And controlled with drones. Well, it's another story - a totalitarian country, but they have... 8 86 789 patients are currently ill. The masks must, of course, be carried by everyone... had to be carried until the disease had been stopped. And what are the results? There's data here on December 17... I'm watching the Worldometer... Today in China, seven people are sick, no one is dead... To 1.4 billion. It may be that you do not have to put these data together and compare them and that the masks do not help. I don't know, I'm not a doctor, Mr. Gobzem. I'm just saying that statistics are cruel. And unfortunately, these statistics show that in Taiwan, China and Japan... Japan is, of course, a democratic state; there are less severe penalties, but... Prisons are also in all these countries for not carrying masks, but there are results. And it's hard to explain why Japan is so... in relation to the number of Latvian residents... Only 46 people get sick, and hundreds of us get sick. In Japan, the rate of ageing population is higher than in Latvia - there are, as I have already said, many centenarians (where to talk about the eighties and nineties!) , but... Well, this infection, thanks to the masks... It may be that there are some other reasons. But if the Japanese aren't as smart as the Latvians, then why don't they go to the demonstrations and don't argue against these masks... Are the same Taiwaneses? But there's a lot better method of... We're smart talking here how you can stop... apparently... If anyone already knows... And if Mr. Gobzem knows these statistics... If there are fantastic results somewhere without masks, then we need to name a country that has the same results as those three countries that I named. And once again, Mrs Stepanenko, I remind you, push your phone screen away and look at the days... those indicators, don't call them the digits of the year that... It was really terrible in the spring, but those governments reacted very quickly there. The result is that schools don't have to close, everything happens, but masks have to be carried. And, as I said, we have to carry it from five years... children in the first class, and nothing terrible happens. So you don't have to tell horrific stories. And no one is allowed to keep his child at home if he doesn't want a mask. I think that we will not be inventing anything new and that these statistics are unfortunately the only ones that we can now refer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U68	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U69	You know, this situation is very simple. I trust Andris Skridem, he's a doctor, he's studied, he's studied, he's learned, and he knows how to do better. So if I need medical advice, I go for medical advice. If, on the other hand, I need advice in figure-making, then I turn to the consultant... at the eloquents. But since it's necessary to make a medical decision this time, I trust Andrem Flyre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U70	Mr. Zarins, we don't see or hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U71	Yeah... Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U72	You can see.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U73	Very good, thank you. There are areas where I am competent, and I am aware of this, and I do not hesitate to discuss it. And there are areas where I am not competent, and I am aware of it. This is one of those areas on which I do not have competence, so I do not rush to come up with some of my conclusions, but I have a number of questions on which... I would like someone to give me the answers. First of all, to answer to yourself... But I really would like to hear these competent answers here. And I'll share my questions, my thoughts. I've heard... and this is demonstrated by experts and... As if there were several experiments that masks help reduce the transmission of this infection. I assume that this is indeed the case. I think that's also logical. As a person who is not an expert in this field, but who has good logical thinking, I believe that this assumption might be correct. But at the same time... at the same time... I've also heard the evidence and I know the experiments... experimental evidence that if the mask is not used correctly, then the mask does not help to reduce the transmission of infection, but, on the contrary, becomes a promoter of the transmission of infection, the transmission of infection. It is very simple: if the mask protects against infection, it accumulates the infection and becomes the object of the infection itself. And if we use the mask incorrectly, that is, we touch the fingers with this mask that is infected, then we, on the contrary, get more concentrated in this infection. In this context, I have the question: will the children now being offered to wear this mask be able to wear it correctly? If they are able to carry it correctly, then by following the logic, it really will help to limit the infection if it is impossible to ensure that children wear the mask correctly, then the opposite is true! Then don't... Explain to me... Now I would like to hear the answer: do those who propose to apply this restriction to children also have a methodology how they will ensure that children wear the mask correctly? That is one question for children. Second. Is there a mechanism for providing children with masks for regular changes? That's one thing. The other thing. If we're talking about security, then I'm interested in... Even if these masks are available and children wear them right, then how is it... Is there any idea how the school will provide ventilation? Because it's just logical to think... I'm not an expert in medicine, but I'm pretty good at physics. If the room is not ventilated, then what is the point of the mask, because the infection will still be in the room? So the question is, will the mask do its job if the children do not carry it properly and if the premises are not adequately ventilated? What will this mask bring? It happens that the mask will - on the contrary - be an additional source of infection. I would like you to answer this question: how is it really - will it be or will it not be? Go on. If we see that such a causal relationship could develop, then we should think... If we really want to prevent children being vectors of infection, or source of infection, then maybe this solution is not a soft solution, but rather a solution that we better ventilate the space, provide the space with the appropriate means of measuring air quality, perhaps we do not buy masks, but buy schools so that they can ensure air quality? I assume that this procurement should not be carried out by any Chinese company that cannot be traced back to where it goes, but here. Everything would be in Latvia and more easily traceable. Maybe that's it (A sound defect.) ... Why don't you want to. You simply do not want to think about some more realistic and rational solution. This, of course, requires more movement of the brain, requires more organization... Perhaps it is also possible to change the organization of this hour in schools so that the density of children there is smaller, say, to sit in one step in hours and maybe to split into half an hour. It is a question of the organisation of flows, and it is thought of how it could be done. Go on. I have a question: if this principle of organization really makes it possible for children to sit at a sufficient distance in hours and the spaces are well ventilated, then do we need masks in that case? Okay. It is possible that this risk arises not at the moment when children are in hours, but when they are in between, when they come together and start moving more. Perhaps it is worth considering that the children of the mask could be used at intervals and then removed. If the masks were removed, this would prevent the risk of infection, if they had accumulated an infection, and they would receive a new mask at the next time. Well, that's an example. I don't know, I just asked. But what I haven't received... I would really like to receive an answer: do you really think that children will be able to wear these masks properly - so that they will be protected with these masks rather than infecting them even more by carrying them incorrectly? Second. Is there any idea of organisation, of ventilation? Next. We have heard here these comparisons about the various national profiles that have been mentioned. I am not an expert in medicine, but after studying at the university I am excellent and have mastered various elements of mathematical analysis, including statistics. Therefore, Mr Kirštein, I would like to recommend to you: when you compare these statistics, it is also important how you take this reference period. What I've seen... When I look at statistics from other countries, I've seen such a correlation... I repeat, I'm not a doctor, I'm not... I cannot comment, as an expert, on how they have developed, but I have observed that the countries that have previously suffered from these diseases are later much less affected. And that's what you... Mr. Kirstein, you mentioned France... France's example. In Latvia it has not been so, so I think it is not really right to compare this trend, because perhaps that hook lies exactly in the fact that it's a duck... In those countries where these diseases have occurred, this feather of mortality... This means that those people who have gone away in connection with the community... that it has been the deaths that have been faster... These have been people who may have had that time of departure. And this is the way very often these statistics are manipulated when these statistics are expressed. They are dead with a kovid positive analysis - they are dead not from the kovide, but with a covid positive analysis. Very many of them have died of the diseases that they have long been sick, they have been diseases other than the community, and they would still have died - perhaps it would have happened a little later than when they were infected with the community. And that's why we're seeing this dynamic right now... the fact that those people who were the most impeccable with this infection have simply gone already, and so these deaths are not so much. It is also not really correct to compare Latvia with Japan. Mr Kirstein, you probably know that our cultures are quite different. The Japanese are famous for their discipline, with their cult of purity. And so I think that the masks have hardly been the decisive factor why they have a completely different disease dynamics. What I have yet to observe is that there is one interesting connection that really follows these pilots, which we cannot rightly name... Latvian words should be used in the Saeima, and I will use the word "blank"... When the state is locked in the pond... We already have the word ‘end’, and now there is also a ‘screw’... When we get into the big pond and when the nation, society, goes out of it, perhaps we also have a psychological factor here. And, as we know, it's this inside... Stress levels are one very powerful factor that contributes to the spread of cosmos. The more optimistic people are, the healthier they are, the more happy they are, the less affected they are by this disease. In this context... We know that the feeling of happiness is very relative. At this late night's hour, there's one anecdotes here for the same story, which I think could also apply to all these communion things. Someone sorcerer caught three men and said he would release it... As if he is ready to meet their best wish, their hottest wish, provided that any of these men will make him happy. When he, a magician, will say, “Yes, how happy I am!” That's what the first one was trying to do. The first man offered him all the joys of love to try. It didn't make the magic happy. Next came and offered all kinds of technological wonders, all kinds of technological fun. That did not make this magic happy either. And now the third man came. He just took this sorcerer by his hand, took him to the bar, sat him down, ordered each one of them. They drank each one of them, then they kept sitting. He said, “Let’s order each other in a beer!” He ordered another beer, gave him a sorcerer to drink. And so they continued. The burvis says to him at one point: “Wait, I will go to the bathroom, I will come back, and then we will be able to continue.” He said: “No, keep on! Sit down, and continue to drink beer." And so they continued. After some time, after a couple of cups, the sorcerer was allowed to go to the bathroom. At the time when he was in the toilet and finally was able to get rid of this already processed beer, he literally broke out: “Such relief!” He said, “God, how happy I am!” And maybe it's the hook that... We're looking here now... we look at all these country profiles... that after that, after all the hedges that have passed through society... when the society has gone through this complete step-by-step approach, its attitude changes in principle. The social psychologically many things are perceived differently - much more positive. And perhaps this is the way we should think about - how can we make our attitude more positive after all, and not make hysteria here, come with exaggerated statements, but take a calm, rational look at the current situation, understanding what is happening. By the way, interesting research has appeared that is spreading... Mr. Kirstein, I can look at you specifically... for other countries... where the virus is analyzed... It's this virus... and morbidity in a broader context, morbidity in several years. It's very interesting to see that these ducks are forming. Many countries have very similar dusts. They're basically... There are no differences in principle. That suggests we're just going through... Mankind passes through such a normal, logical phase of test. We're just coming... round in a row... current virus, current exacerbation. To a large extent, the way we go through this escalation depends on how rational and with what attitude we will do it. Colleagues, I see that here there is the greatest untapped potential that is currently available. Perhaps this relationship, too... This is also indicated by its relationship... the fact that in the spring, when our government acted convincingly and felt that everything was all right and gave the public such signals... Although it was obvious to those who tried a little to go into what was happening that this government acted incompetently, lightly, arrogantly... but they, government, were convinced of what they were doing, and they also gave this healthy signal to society. And the result was that the public did not suffer from this virus, too. What's interesting if we look... you can also, Mr Kirštein, certainly as an expert, as a national expert, look, let us say, at the example of Belarus, at the example of Finland - as those masks are there. In my opinion, the example of Finland is very interesting. I have looked at their limitations as they are - they are less than we do, but they have much better results in limiting disease. I think that the most important thing is not only in events, but also in what confidence society is going through all this. We have a problem, that those who have to pass through this plague with us have no meaning, no hatred to do it, and they, like bad riders, just pricked the horse behind the beauty, pull him out of the teeth of the mouth, and try to get out at the moment we have to get over some obstacle, just pull the baskets, and the horse just runs into that barrier, can't jump. I think that is the main problem. In fact, the main reason for the spread of this disease is our government with its incompetent, unthought-out decisions, which further pose these major risks of transmission of infection. And we can see this, even what is happening today. We're... I mean, we didn't see it... those who worked today, but what can be seen from social networks - that shops are simply thrown around. That is, in my opinion, the main reason it would be worth thinking about. And it is unlikely that by putting masks on young children, we will solve this problem. So that I call on you to think about it, and I call on you to respond. I see that Mrs Chaksh has also applied. Answer my questions about carrying masks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2174-U74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members of the Pavļuts, Bikše, Šteins, Beitnere-Le Galla and Mūrniece are asking for a break during the second remote sitting on December 18 of this year until 9 a.m. on December 21 of this year. We must vote on this. Please call me! We will vote for the adjournment by 9 a.m. on December 21 this year! Please, let's vote! For - 59, for - 24, for - 1. Decision adopted. So, by 9 a.m. on December 21 this year. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. So we will continue on December 21 at 9 a.m. ( Interruption)
