ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U1	Dear colleagues, Let us begin the second extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 9 July 2020. On the agenda – draft law “On the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Associated Member State of the European Space Agency”, first reading. Member Rihards Kols on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, At its meeting on 9 July, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law “On the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Associated Member State of the European Space Agency”. The very nature of the contract. Latvia has been active in the European Space Agency for many years. The European Space Agency has various stages of cooperation to make countries move along the stairs and to end up in full-fledged Member States. These four stages are... The initial is the observer status that Latvia has already gone through the subsequent status, which was implemented in 2015, becoming the co-operation country of the European Space Agency for a period of five years. This draft law provides for ratification of the agreement concluded by the Latvian Government with the European Space Agency on 30 June 2020, thus becoming an associated member of this agency. And what are the main benefits of participating in an associated Member State? There is an opportunity to develop its own national space programme, or the applicant party's activities within the Agency, where only specific countries and organisations participate in design contests, and an opportunity to participate in the Agency's selection programmes, which provide more opportunities for cooperation with the European space industry. The requesting Party's activities shall enable the implementation of those aspects of space development that are not included in the Agency's selection programmes, thereby creating a comprehensive space policy and public contribution to space. The status of associated Member State shall enable participation in all the selection programmes of the European Space Agency, which shall form the basis for the operation of the Agency and in which all technology missions of the Agency shall be carried out. Each programme of choice for the Agency shall have its own objectives and rules, and the Member States and associated countries of the Agency may participate in any programme of choice for the Agency, with appropriate contributions. The common objectives of the Agency's selection programmes shall be to promote the competitiveness and innovation of European industry through the creation of new products and to improve Europe's technological independence and access to critical technologies, and to promote the dissemination of technologies outside the space sector. In response to industry experts and recommendations from independent experts of the European Space Agency, Latvia currently has the best opportunities and potential to participate in two selection programmes – the main technology support programme and the Earth observation programme. That's briefly about the particular draft law... Thus, the agreement between Latvia and the associated Member State of the European Space Agency. The Commission examined and supported this draft law at first reading. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U3	First of all, the Commission is asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Does Mr Gobzem want to talk about urgency? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the associated Member State of the European Space Agency! Please, let's vote! On – 66, against – 3, abstain – 2. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. Does one of the Members wish to speak in the debate? Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U4	Good evening, society! Good evening, colleagues! We're going to talk a little about space at the end of the day. It has just been recognised as an urgent issue that we should join a new organisation, because this decision is very urgent, very, very topical, because it is absolutely clear that Europe is missing... certainly there is a lack of Latvia's unique political experience on space policy issues. And I also believe that we can certainly afford to bring forward our representatives – the best of the best – experience exchange trips in space exchange programmes with the highest tolerance to state secret and with the greatest will of the state. What do I mean? I would like to say that you see the effects of the Covid-19 distance and the e-Vebinarian Parliament. You see that there is an urgent question for us about space. We have no urgent question as to whether children will be able to go to school on 1 September. We also have no other urgent questions about how to support local small and medium-sized enterprises or abolish OICs or any painful issue that is in Latvia. It's not urgent for us. We urgently need to enter the space agency now, because the unique experience of our country is certainly what is missing in order to exaggerate Ilon Mask. I think that in Parliament, we also certainly have some cosmonauts that we can send through the right space. Such knowledge here in Latvia is definitely about space. What else do I mean? Clearly, this is my irony for the whole issue. What do I want to say about this? In Latvia, we have always had such an objective in our history. We stand up butaforically or try to join all kinds of organisations, so that our officials will then be able to "report" on their "success". On “success” (foot) – I mean. But in fact, all these butaphoria... Where do they lead our country? In fact, if we look at it, we are increasingly falling behind economically even in the Baltic region. Let us not talk about a Europe where we fall behind in the head trial, although you are told every year that we have the biggest GDP growth and have some success story. But in fact, we are behind. And very seriously, our country dies statistically, but now we urgently, there will be an obligatory space programme. Now. Because without it, we will not be able to integrate into Europe. I would ask our Members not to deal with butaphoria issues, so that Mr. Kola would have the opportunity to go on a political tourism trip (he will speak after me and has now applied to speak), but perhaps that Mr. Kola should not ask for urgent recognition of yet space issues, but for urgent recognition of education issues so that every one of our children – both yours, Mr. Kola, mys and all of the children of Latvia – can go to school in September. That we should finally have an education minister who it is interested in, not who would lead some space group that was supposed to take place today. For us to have the best higher education, and for us to have the influx of students who want to study in Latvia in the autumn! So that we can have a holiday at preschool and at school – all students! May our education system not be some 500 or 900, or the millionth, or where it is in the world, but be the best in the world! And a small country can do that! Not now we have a topical and urgent question... One parent does not know what to do and what to do with children in the autumn, but we will still have a space research political group, as it is written in the press today. Well... You're a fool, colleagues! I understand that I will then be told with a serious face that there will probably be some funding and something else. Dear friends! Maybe we don't need all the butaphoria? Perhaps we are simply doing the things that our people need first. We'll get to space. First of all, we may have to cope with poverty. First of all, we may ensure that those who did not receive the idle benefits do not leave Latvia. And then we'll send our cosmonauts into space. Let's be honest – Latvian budget cannot afford any spaceship! And the Latvian budget for no satellites in the near future... while this government, which decides on it, and probably the next one, will certainly not send anything into space. This is not an urgent matter! This is not a topical issue this summer! This summer we had to work for Viņķele and Šuplinska to have healthy people! So that we don't have to go back, as the press says today... that it will be immediately decided and that there will be an emergency, because everyone in the government and in the parliament will be afraid. To destroy our lives again and make our lives worse. We had to think about it all summer! How can we ensure that we do not have an emergency? No, we were yesterday or last night or when we were proud of what we had the most successful story. Today we are already talking about the state of emergency again. Very successful, very successful policy it is! The whole society is talking about this. And that's the big problem with everything this government does, this power. It's hypocritical, it's lying, it's butaphoric! No day, no second solves the questions that people need every day! They judge the Liepaja prison, which people do not need today. They decide whether to need a concert hall on Elizabeth Street or some other street! What's the difference? Now, this is the most topical issue in life? And today we're talking about the cosmonauts. I hope that Mr Kola is already in the group and has already applied for some 10 foreign missions due to the fact that he is going to study space now. I hope that the experience that Mr Kola will bring from these space groups will be useful for future generations. And that's what we can... now I have 41, when 70 comes to 70, then we'll see how that space experience has been brought by Mr. Cole. And that is also a fair speech, a fair answer to what is happening in the country and why we are one of the poorest countries in Europe. It is precisely for this reason that we are dealing with issues that are irrelevant today, but do not deal with issues that are essential. Mr. Cole, before you defend the space programme, I very much want to hear you today... that you, as a National Association, should defend Latvian children and their interests – from food to education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U5	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U6	Thank you, Madam President. I think that perhaps the light of the eyes, the light of the ears, needs some clarification, in contrast to what this particular draft law determines and why the Foreign Affairs Commission is looking at it. First of all, the Foreign Affairs Commission implements Section 9(1) of the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”. The government, as I said, has concluded such an agreement on 30 June. The Foreign Commission, as well as you, Mr Gobzem, is probably well known, ratifies... The Saeima shall be guided by international treaties or international commitments which Latvia shall undertake. As far as research itself is concerned, I do not think that the European Space Agency is the place where Parliamentaries will go and exchange views on how to better conquer or protect space. As a priority, this membership as an associated Member State opens up a much broader opportunity for our scientists and researchers to participate in the European research network by participating in the development of state-of-the-art technologies, because it should not be denied that space research is not just how we learn space, but it is clear that the technologies that we create here on Earth to explore space can be adapted in one way or another to the solutions that are urgently needed here on Earth, whether they are related to climate change monitoring, or whether they are the introduction of other high-tech technologies that make life easier and improve quality of life. But I don't know, I'm neither a scientist nor a researcher. As regards the European Space Agency itself, it now brings together 22 European countries plus Canada, and Latvia is not yet a Member State, but an associated Member State, and this is the last step before becoming a fully-fledged Member State. I very much hope that Latvia will become a full member of this space agency five years after the status of associated Member State. If a Member feels that this is absolutely non-serious, then, in my view, participation in such bodies, which are directly oriented towards science and research, is an acute vital element. And if we remember, very recently Latvia joined the Nuclear Research Agency, which is more widely known as CERN and is located... very researches both quantum physics, as it says, boundary cups... And I think that if our scientists and researchers can take part in various capacicies in these programmes, it is only a benefit for Latvia in the long term. As far as the draft law itself is concerned... and thank you to Mrs Spīker, yes... I have little explanation of why this urgency is. In 2015, Latvia became a cooperation country; this agreement is for five years. This Agreement shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Of course, it was planned that already this March the Council of the European Space Agency will decide at the meeting on Latvia's admission as an associated country. But in view of Covid-19, this meeting was postponed to June 24, where the historic decision was also taken, calling on Latvia to become an associated Member State, and, as I mentioned, on June 30, the Latvian Government signed an agreement with the European Space Agency. I think 9 July is not so crazy that we are looking at it in the Saeima, there have been circumstances, so today we have this issue on the agenda, because ratification of the relevant association agreement must take place by 29 July. But in any case, I see that there will be scientists and researchers who have applied for further discussions. I think that for time Latvia's participation in such international formats, which are focused on science and research – whether it is space or deep water or nuclear science – is only to be supported. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U7	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U8	Dear colleagues, I really want to hope that through space we will ever begin to avoid limitations and imperfections. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U9	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U10	Dear Chairman and fellow Members of the Saeima. First of all, it is a pity to hear that people and Members do not appreciate the education system in Latvia. I believe that Latvia's education system is very high. We were also able to observe this in terms of the fact that the Latvian teachers' joint project “Your Class” was also evaluated at OECD level as one of the best Covid-19 crisis solutions in the education system. Finnish education experts have also acknowledged that this is the best... a better example of how to deal with the challenges of the education system in a crisis, than even Finland has succeeded. We can also see that our best students are able to take up and get places in world-class universities. We see that you can win world-class competitions, and in the end, the Latvian economy is growing and developing, directly thanks to the Latvian education system. Secondly, it is a pity that there is also some limitedness, considering that, let us say, participation in such a European Space Agency does not bring added value to Latvia. Of course, it's a research engagement, it's an opportunity for our scientists and research staff to be among the best in the world... So the people concerned at a serious level and a serious new industry... Either, not perhaps new, but very perspective, which is exploration and acquisition of space. And just as Mr. Kola said in his speech, CERN and the European Space Agency also offer a lot of opportunities for Latvian entrepreneurs to participate in these projects. Directly, it has been shown that Member States participating in this type of project, this brings economic returns through business participation, enables entrepreneurs to apply for different competitions and provide much higher economic returns... than the money that the country is currently investing in the European Space Agency... to become a Member State. In general, I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and to the members of the Commission for their really operational work in order to ratify and accept it in due time, because the deadline is indeed 28 July, which is the last time we have to ratify. So thank you for your operational work. And I call on all my colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U11	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U12	Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, the whole discussion about getting into the regular club is going on at the level of some absolute dilettants. Can the Ministry of Education and Science at least provide a serious analysis of the past benefits of its participation in all space programmes? That is, what have been the benefits for each of the projects paid in euro in each Member State? One. Two. What is the alternative scenario, let us say, if there were no such participation? So what would these scientists do? Where would they apply? And so on. All this rhetoric is that it expands possibilities for Latvian scientists, forgive... it does not withstand absolutely any criticism. Something like this could be said if Latvian scientists had absolutely no opportunity to apply for funding of any scientific projects. The Latvian... as a Member State of the European Union... Latvian scientists have opportunities to apply for so-called Horizon programmes, where, for example, for the next programming period, a total funding of 94 billion euros is provided for those who can get it. So why are these new additional opportunities much better, such as those offered by the Horizon programmes? It's not about the Ministry of Education and Science... there is absolutely no analysis. It seems that you are telling here about these new opportunities and as if there are obvious benefits for Latvia. Let us take a look at the explanatory memorandum drawn up by the Ministry of Education and Science on the projected impact on the economy. There are words – “probably positive”, “probably positive impact on the economy”. Now it's absolutely dilettant level. As I said at the beginning, this shows that this type of decision is taken without any serious analysis of the benefits and costs, whether the benefits are greater than the costs. Here we have to agree on a possible suspicion that the main reasons can be really some sort of mission search. That Latvian scientists... now they have the opportunity to apply for so many programmes, but as a result, ISM has forgotten to finance its own science properly. That's what we hear about here and we're talking about already, I don't know, the year of fuel. The additional funding for science is small, several times less than for example in the same Estonia, but scientists have all of them in large numbers... More and more opportunities to apply for newer programmes. This path, colleagues, is absolutely unsustainable. It's a waste, colleagues! I do not expect this approach to change in any way, at least at the level of the discussions that have been heard, but at least because of the protocol, I have to say that to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U13	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U14	Society and colleagues, what I want to add to what Reinis Znotiņa, Rihard Kola and also Sergey Dolgopolov said. The first thing I underlined is that we should urgently address the educational problems that we now have, because parents are unaware of an elementary case – what will happen in the autumn? We're talking about space here. The issue of priorities that are more urgent. That's one. Second. We can already place orders on ourselves – what we are best there and not yet know where. Here, two days ago, as I said, you have put hordes on how we have successfully fought the Covid-19. Today, in a day's time or two, there will be a state of emergency, because you have fought so successfully, which of course is absolutely hypocrisy and lies. And then that's the understanding, Mr. Znotins. You say: “Our students are coming to foreign universities.” As if it were an achievement. You don't know that from foreign universities they go to Latvia to recruit people, students to join them. This is not an achievement. The achievement would be if our universities, Mr Znotiņš, were the best to come from England, Germany, America and other countries. It would be an achievement, not that our students leave and do not return in principle. It is a question of thinking, a question of changing thinking about what is then a achievement in essence. And what also did Vjačeslav Dombrovskis say – what will benefit then? You already don't know what the benefits will be. Let's go, there's something to be proud of, such a butaphoric pride. We have also joined the OECD. And what? Our standard of living for a normal person is simply because we wanted to be in a club in the rich countries, has it improved? No, no. We are the most dying country in the world, we are one of the poorest countries. We are compared with Romania, but we are proud to be the OECD, now we will be at the European Space Agency, and so on. And that is urgent for us. But as a matter of urgency, we do not have to resolve what is our daily need. It may be that in future we will also be a superpower in space, but only if we have the best education system in the world and not the education system from which we leave to learn from other countries. That is just what we should talk about! And if it is about supporting scientists, Mr KP and Mr Znotiņš, you promised, your party promised, I do not remember how many million of them are kept in science. Where are they? Where is your promise? Just like “3 × 500”, just like a million trees... What you didn't say there! Now the youngest was about those apartments you'll build every year, how much there... 50... or how many of those houses, multi-storey houses, that's a clear lie! And that's why it's fair to say: at the moment it looks like you need new political tourism trips – to explore space. And that's all! And the fact that you give you some reports abroad about how beautiful everything is here, how good everything is – talk to your parents, talk to your children's parents about education, talk about science! What opportunities do Latvian children have to develop in the field of science in Latvia? How do they provide these opportunities at present in rural schools or anywhere? Talk about it! And then set those warranties for yourself! Otherwise it's such a version of the PSPP in the Soviet Union that on 1 May or where it goes with those warranties. You guys, too... You're thinking that... It's like young people, but you think at the level of the Orders. On the other hand, we may all be honest about the problem. It's not even a reproach for you, but we all honestly admit that we have such a problem, which is an education system, and together we solve it, not a big one, as we have done. Nothing has already been done! That is the main emphasis! The order of priorities. Space is not finally the most important thing for us on 9 July 2020. Children's education is the most important thing for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U15	The name to Member Rainis Znotiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U16	Colleagues! I have to tell Vyacheslav Dombrovskis and Aldi Gobzem that ignorance does not release from responsibility. Please, I call on you to look at this, there is an analysis that is in the government when you look at the information report on this issue. There is a very detailed analysis of the Ministry of Education and Science on economic evaluation of why this accession is to be supported and what it will bring to the Latvian economy, science. There is also an evaluation of foreign experts on this topic and an evaluation of the European Space Agency. They shall be made public. I invite you to go to the website of the Ministry of Education and Science and get to know them before you make such statements. So that everything that I said and mentioned, and what Mr. Kola also mentioned, has been assessed sufficiently widely and publicly, so I invite you to really get to know, maybe see... change your thinking, see the opportunities that projects of this kind give us, not look as narrowly as you... as you say, you can also understand. So thank you. And I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U17	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U18	Yeah, thank you. Certainly Latvia's participation in the European Space Agency is useful. It is an opportunity to learn new technologies, it is the creation of a new co-ordinate for the expansion of the Latvian youth horizon. It's just short. I will not agree that there are no elements in Latvia before joining the European Space Agency. In Latvia there is a radio telescope of the Ventspils International Radio Astronomy Centre located in Ventspils district, Ances parish in Irbene. One of the largest in Europe, by the way, which can be used as a component of a radio interferon, together with the other radio telescopes that make up this type of device system in other countries of the European Union. I would like to conclude that this is a serious step exactly for the Latvian... raising young Latvian youth. I am very sorry that, in general, this report on the specific project, which we are now discussing in this way, was not well prepared in my view. The Ministry of Education has very good specialists who could explain how important it is for Latvia to join this project. It was... told us several times, for example, at the sittings of the Committee on European Affairs, when we listened to specialists who told us very carefully what progress Latvia had already made in this process, who started almost immediately after the restoration of Latvia's independence. I think it's... we are on the right track, and in any circumstances, even when the effects of the epidemic are still current, we cannot lose this opportunity. I therefore call for the specific project to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U19	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U20	Hello, colleagues! I will also call for support for this draft law. It has happened that I have been at the roots of the situation when Latvia started its way to the European Space Agency. It was 2008, 2009. If we talk in essence, then let's not just talk about space research. We are also talking about the space industry in this case. And indeed, there has been a sufficiently long preparatory phase, a long enough path for Latvia to identify what we can gain from our participation in the next stage of cooperation with the European Space Agency, because this stage of cooperation – that five years has passed and it is necessary to decide whether to continue at this stage of cooperation or to move on to the next stage of cooperation, that is to say, to the status of associated Member State. As far as economic interests are concerned... 2009 saw the creation of a European... That is, the Latvian Space Technology Cluster, where 44 companies participated at that time. Now, the number of them... I will not say exactly, but the number is definitely higher. And these are companies that see themselves either in the provision of services... and here we are talking about services such as satellite navigation, such as the development of satellite technology in general. We're also talking... if from the research point of view, we are talking about Earth observation, including satellite technology, which can be used for both agriculture, environmental surveillance and many other things. It's all space, or... they are all space technologies. These are matters dealt with by the European Space Agency. They're not just research in space, they're not just trying to fly in space. It is not just the launch of satellites in space, but that is all we can get from these modern technologies. Mr Pimenov has already mentioned a network of very long-based interferometry. It is a European network that brings together many radio telescopes to explore the remote galaxies. Latvia has been operating in this network, more precisely, the Ventspils International Radio Astronomy Centre in this network for at least the last 10 years, and participation in the European Space Agency for these research... these studies will be included in the amounts of money that Latvia will pay to the European Space Agency, as well as what we will receive from there. I could really tell you a lot about these things, but I call on Members to read the Treaty itself. The Treaty sets out in very detailed detail the selection programmes with which Latvia can participate. Mr Kola has already said that this is mainly about two optional programmes at the moment, but the list is open, and it is much broader. And only of us, our courage will be very much dependent. If we are talking about Latvia and space, then it's probably not too bad to remind you once that flights in space in general... the idea of flights in space comes directly from Latvia. In Friedrich Canders was born in Riga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U21	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U22	Highly honored colleagues and especially the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education! This space story has a very long background, at least I think about... I think it's about 10 years. And I... on the one hand, I am, of course, very pleased that your party has taken over what has been such a project of the Greens/Farmers Union for a long time, despite all your relations with the Greens/Farmers Union. It is really a pleasure that you have such constructiveism. But it does not change the substance of the matter that, before taking a decision on membership, in which very significant amounts are to be paid every year (we are talking about millions of euros of taxpayers' money), there is a need for a serious assessment of the potential benefits, especially in this case, given that Latvia has been a Member State in this space agency for quite a long time. There are quite significant data available, and the benefits must be compared with the analysis, with another forecast of what scientists would do if there were no such additional possibilities. Such an analysis, a serious analysis, as I say, simply does not exist. You refer here to some detailed documents presented at the Cabinet meetings. The meeting of the Cabinet was held on 14 April and on 30 June. And it's impossible to find, Mr. Znotiņš, no such analysis. I think that if such an analysis were to be, then you would probably, I would just expect it, also include it in the annotation of this draft law. But I do not see anything like that here except general wording that could have a positive impact on the economy. Well, sorry when you offer to spend several million taxpayers' money, this “may be”... it is not serious enough. But in any case, maybe I've missed something, maybe you've seen some serious analysis recently, then please send it to me. I will be familiar with this and, if this analysis really is serious and of high quality, I promise you that I will take my words and my doubts back to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U23	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U24	I must say that I also stood at the sources when we just started cooperation with the European Space Agency. I won't hide that I had a great scepter about that actuality, the necessity of that time. The difference between the OECD and the European Space Agency is very large. The European Space Agency is an opportunity; if we are talking about the OECD, it is a pastor's club from which advice can be learned, may not be taught, may be taken into account, may be ignored. That is why I had a rather long discussion in the Committee on European Affairs, which Mr Pimenov has already mentioned... Yes, the possibilities that this treaty is talking about... Their use depends solely on us, but its potential is truly great. And I would call for this draft law to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U25	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U26	There is nothing to add. I call on the Commission to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the associated Member State of the European Space Agency” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For – 71, against – no, refrains – 3. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U28	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I invite the Saeima to examine the draft law in the second, final, reading without re-examination by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2103-U29	Thank you. The Bureau has not received any objections from Members regarding the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima without the... without re-examination by the commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the associated Member State of the European Space Agency” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! For – 74, against – no, refrains – 3. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, It is time for the statement, because we have dealt with the agenda of the sitting. It will be possible, literally in five to seven minutes' time, to enter the agenda of this first extraordinary session, and I also call for this to be done. At present, there are still Members' registrations. It's done well. I'm closing the sitting. We are already on the agenda for the first extraordinary part-session in five to seven minutes.
