ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2159-U1	Honourable Members! Let's start the first remote emergency sitting on December 1, this year. On the agenda - hand over the draft law to the commission. Thus, the Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the member Agešina, Lochmele, Kucina, Rubika and Tutina be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Member Ageshin has applied to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2159-U2	Dear colleagues, After a speech by Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš on Sunday night, when the people were not told by nature, it is not clear at all on which government members receive their wages. Are there messages that everything is bad in the country and will be worse? It is unlikely that various rituals may overshadow the depressing negatives of society in connection with the specifics of the government's work if the activities of the government ministers can generally be referred to as work. The right power parties had taken care of such assessments, focusing on the whole problem of weeds in the Cabinet of Ministers - instability, desire for power, distrust, talking, bilefulness. What kind of remuneration supplement can ministers talk about when a government deficit is rising when a country is in a deep socio-economic crisis? Otherwise, I could not have, either, because the government's leadership was entrusted to the power that lost the elections, to the smallest player - the New Unity with only eight mandates in the Saeima. The government is led by a representative of the old political and smaller political group. In the context of the Covid-19 crisis, it is the duty of the country's highest official to show solidarity with the people of the country and to freeze wages. Last year, the Saeima acted like that. Members' salaries shall be frozen by the end of 2022. In times of crisis, the salaries of the Prime Minister and Ministers must not be increased. In this regard, I think there can no longer be any different ideas. Therefore, the members of the political group SASKŪJA prepared an amendment to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. Thank you for your support for the FAO Group and the independent Members. The amendment requires members of the Cabinet of Ministers and parliamentary secretaries of ministries to freeze salaries up to 13. The term of office of the Saeima shall expire on November 2022. Moreover, I think it is right now that the national apparatus should be more efficient. While income has fallen catastrophicly and dramatically for many people of Latvia, the employees of the state administration are waiting for wage supplements and year-end bonuses. The question arises: why has the pre-election promise to reduce the number of ministries been violated? Violation and non-compliance do not bring glory to the government. The coalition only strengthens its conviction that non-compliance with the promises in Latvian policy is nothing new. Furthermore, there are unelected politicians among the ministers. In my opinion, if public support has not been received in elections, then it is naive to wait afterwards. I know that this is not what we want to see our country. Everyone wants a stable life of income, confidence in the future. Just live so that we do not have to deal with injustice every day. I see no reason why we should support the increase in the salaries of the Prime Minister, the members of the government and the parliamentary secretaries of the ministries. Dear colleagues, Beautiful words do not matter, everything is determined by action. I therefore ask for support for the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2159-U3	Mr. Ivars Zarins has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2159-U4	Good evening, everybody! I call for this draft law to be voted against to all those who want to confirm that the One Law - One Justice does not apply to our country, that we can live in different realities like caves. I call for this draft law to be voted against by all those who believe that our government ministers and Prime Minister are so competent and responsible in carrying out their duties that they deserve a remuneration supplement. I call for this draft law to be voted against by all those who believe that these government ministers and the Prime Minister deserve a supplement to their duties more than a medical supplement than all those who carry out their duties in good faith and self-free but for whom there is no money in the budget. I call for this draft law to be voted against by all those who really believe that paying these ministers and the Prime Minister more will make them more powerful and responsible in their decisions. I call for the 'no' vote on this draft law to be taken by all those who believe that sledling can feed well on the lions. I call for this law to be voted against by all those who want to express their arrogance, cynicism and permissiveness to the public in Latvia. I call on all the others to remember their oath given to the people of Latvia and to vote for the conscience, because you still have this opportunity. I call on the public to follow this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2159-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 75, for - 14, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, So we have examined the agenda of the sitting. After 15 minutes, we will begin the second remote emergency sitting on December 1, this year. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. I'm closing the sitting.
