ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, take your seats! Dear colleagues, we started the Saeima meeting on 23 January 2020. First of all, the changes tabled to the agenda adopted by the Bureau. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and officials of the administration of detention places with special service levels in the law on service progress” (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on the State Border Guard (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for inclusion on the agenda... requests that point 18 of the draft law amending the Law on Waste Management be removed from the agenda (No. 513/Lp13) and put it on the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 30 January 2020. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Linda Liepiņa, Aldis Gobzems, Didzis Šmits, Karina Sprūde, Uldis Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis and Dana Reizniece–Ozola asks for the draft law “On the actions of the Republic of Latvia in cases when another Member State of the European Union decides to extradite a Latvian citizen to a third country for prosecution.” ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about” Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! As we all know, at the last sitting of the Saeima we agreed together on the draft decision of the Saeima - on a request to the Danish authorities to help us solve this legal problem with the failure of Latvian citizen Kristīne Misāne to extradite to a third country. Yesterday we had a joint meeting of the Legal Commission and the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, where we also looked at various options of action, attracting all - absolutely all! - responsible authorities and practically the wisest Latvian lawyers to understand how we can act in this unstandard situation. A number of considerations were made during the sitting about how we could act, the various problems that we could solve, also using this situation, but the primary thing is, of course, that our Latvian citizen should be returned to Latvia pursuant to Article 98 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. Dear colleagues, We decided to act urgently. We urgently prepared a draft law in cooperation with Dr. Baiba Rudevska, who also... looking at this whole situation, the debate in the last sitting of the Saeima, as well as following this information in the public space, as well as getting to know all the documents... That is the model of action that we want to offer both to the commission responsible, which... we call for not only the Legal Commission to be established... The Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission could be co-responsible in this case if we once started to divide this case together. And one of the models of action in this case would be to create a framework, a legal framework, for action by the Prosecutor General's Office in such cases, both now and in future cases... of course also by establishing the basic principles that institutions should observe if a request for extradition of a Latvian citizen to a third country has been received. It is important that this law, as a special law against the Criminal Procedure Law, can also operate in relation to the situations that have begun (in particular the case of Christine Misane). We cannot create a special rule that would change, for example, the responsibility for the actions that someone has done, but in this case we can give the Office of the Prosecutor General a mandate to re-qualify the case or the authorisation to act immediately by dealing with the newly discovered circumstances and bringing the case... in such a way that this transfer, the transfer of this Latvian citizen, would comply with the basic decision of the detention. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we would really ask you very much for cooperation. In this case, we are asking you very much for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission. And this bill, of course, has also been passed on... Also to the future working group, which I understand is tomorrow, or is already today... has already addressed the situation. And we also very much hope that this draft law, too, will be used as a basis for perhaps someone... Let's say one of the models of action in the case of Christine Misane. And it is very important that Christine Misane's relatives also said after yesterday's meeting, stressing once again that we really need to use all the legal instruments and, of course, all the diplomatic instruments at our disposal to prevent Christine Misane from being extradited to a third country. Therefore, while our officials continue to cooperate with the Danish authorities, with the officials, using all diplomatic instruments, we hope that this legal instrument will also help to address this situation. Therefore, colleagues, we very much ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U3	Do Members object to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda: "Annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union". Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U4	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear Bureau! Sir, Dear Members and honourable Members, Ministers! Excellency! ‘ And the whole world / Is a big, heavy tear.” These words of poet Jānis Poruks are aptly expressing the current international situation. The increase in tensions in the Middle East and elsewhere in the world will also affect both the regional and global security situation and our foreign policy agenda this year. In Latvia's view, a further solution to the growing contradictions, including Iran's issue, can only be achieved through political dialogue and diplomacy. The development of the situation in Syria, Yemen, Libya and Venezuela will be equally important. Although some progress has been made in implementing the Minsk Agreement and exchanging the captured persons in Normandy format, the situation in Ukraine has not changed dramatically. Russia's aggressive policy in Ukraine continues. Nor can climate change be ignored, where one of the main causes is human factor. The moving glaciers in the Arctic, the enormous pollution in the seas and oceans, the long and devastating fires in Australia, Africa and the Amazon's lifetimes are causing irreversible damage to the entire living on our planet. A loud slogan or resolutions adopted by politicians and diplomats are not enough to reduce the environmental impact of people. The solution is only a common and solidarity-based understanding of the need to protect our planet from destruction among all national leaders and societies. The new European Commission's proposals for the European Green Treaty are therefore welcome in order to achieve real climate neutrality. China's growing involvement in global processes, on the other hand, is both an opportunity and a challenge. China is investing intensively in Europe's critical infrastructure, acquiring control over companies, as well as increasing its presence in Europe's neighbours - the Arctic and Africa. China is a European partner and face-to-face. ‘ It is not possible to safeguard world peace without creative efforts that are proportionate to the dangers that threaten it." These words of “European father” Robert Schuman, who will mark the 70th anniversary this year, must be at the heart of every politician and diplomat. No matter how dramatic the last year may seem, it is precisely the efforts and efforts to maintain international order, security and peace that will be especially necessary this year for regional and global players, including the European Union, the United States, China, India and Russia. Dear colleagues, A year has passed since the Saeima approved the government of Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. One of the key words of the government declaration is ‘security’. And it is not randomly selected. This is particularly true in terms of the socio-economic, financial stability, military, internal and external security of our country. The purpose of Latvia's foreign policy is unchanged: to strengthen the security and prosperity of Latvia by promoting stability, security and predictability of regions that are geographically close to the European Union and important to the European Union. The Latvian foreign policy doctrine is based on the following elements. Firstly, to actively build the European Union as a geopolitical player capable of influencing both global and regional processes. The European Union must become a power of value, a power of climate and security. We must be able to project stability in our neighbouring regions. The European Union must develop its security capacity. Secondly, the United States is and will be our strategic partner on both political, economic and security issues. Without the presence of the United States, neither Europe, nor the Baltic, nor Latvia's security is impossible. We will do our utmost to strengthen the transatlantic link with the US and Canada. We will support initiatives that promote cooperation with our North American allies and with Europe. We see great potential, for example, in the Three Seas Initiative. Thirdly, Latvia strongly advocates respect for international law and the principles of rule of law in international relations. Fourthly, we stand for comprehensive political and economic cooperation in the Nordic and Baltic region. Fifthly, we are promoting the development of an area of stability and security in both the eastern and southern neighbourhoods of Europe. We support the enlargement of both the European Union and NATO if all the criteria are met, and we believe that this is good for us and for the candidate countries. Finally, we are ready for cooperation with countries with which we have a significant dispute. Because we believe that an open and fair dialogue, based on mutual respect and in the interests of the parties, is the basis for relations, but that does not mean compromises on matters of principle. Ladies and gentlemen! Latvia's active participation in international organisations, in particular the United Nations, the European Union, NATO and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), is one of the instruments to strengthen the sovereignty, rule of law, security and economic growth of our country. Our strategic partner, the United States, provides invaluable support for our protection. Our allies from other NATO and EU Member States, in particular Canada, as well as Spain, Italy, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia, Slovakia, Albania and Montenegro. Since the restoration of Latvia's independence, the USA's practical involvement in strengthening security in our region has never been as great and felt as it is today. We thank our friends and allies for this. Dear Members and honourable Members, There is no doubt that, after the bruxitis, both the European Union and the United Kingdom will have to go through a new institutional and political transformation. However, this factor must not affect the future unity of the European Union on critical issues. We will support the active work of the European Union on the future relationship agreement with the United Kingdom, because it is essential for our country to strengthen close future relations with the United Kingdom, taking into account our security and economic interests and the community of important citizens who live and work there. No matter how good some want to think, after the Breaxy process, the European Union will not become an artifact of history. I do not place it in the European museum in the centre of Brussels, alongside other exhibitors, with an inscription quoting from already legendary British politicians - “I was once the future”. That is why we will have to work hard on building Europe's future. Here I am putting great hope on the organisation of the future European conference. However, in the debate, let us also remember the words of Schuman: "Europe will not be created immediately or according to a single plan. ... that will be concrete achievements!’ Ladies and gentlemen! Latvia has been in the EU for more than 15 years. The moment has come when we have sufficiently experienced and able not only to follow the policies of the European Union, but to be able to influence them in accordance with the interests of Latvia. In a number of areas, Latvia is a leader, for example in combating disinformation and cyber security. New political priorities have been defined with the new European Commission. And that is Europe's green course, the economy for people, Europe for the digital age and a strong Europe in the world. Latvia supports the enlargement of the European Union as it is in Latvia's long-term interests and guarantees the consolidation, security and stability of democracy and the rule of law in our neighbouring regions. Of course, the European Union has borders. It's not sizeless. The European Union's enlargement policy must be open to those countries that meet the accession criteria, in particular North Macedonia and Albania. Latvia will continue to support our friends from Eastern Partnership countries - Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Latvia will continue to stand for the resolution of frozen conflicts, respect for the principles of territorial integrity of countries. Latvia will also consistently follow the policy of non-recognition of the illegal annexation of Crimea. The governments of both the European Union, the Western Balkans and the Eastern Partnership countries must understand that the European Union has fundamental fundamental values: freedom, democracy and the rule of law. It is also a question of human rights standards, understanding of true democracy and free civil society; in other words, Europeans must act as Europeans. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to experience the day when Latvia will pay more than it will receive in the general budget of the European Union. At the moment, however, our main task is to achieve favourable conditions in the next multiannual budget of the European Union. The budget will be influenced by the UK's withdrawal from the European Union as well as by the new priorities. At the same time, it is already clear that Latvia will receive more than it will receive during the next multiannual budget period. With Latvia’s economic growth and changes in the structure of the European Union budget it is necessary to change the perception of Latvian institutions, municipalities, entrepreneurs and society about the attractiveness of European Union funds. Latvia should be able to develop its capacity to attract funding from the new European Union programmes as well. I invite all sectors to engage and actively discuss Latvia's future development directions in conjunction with the priorities defined by the new European Commission. In future, European Union funding will need to be more creative and more active. From the next seven years' perspective, it is necessary to be able to prepare projects with high added value and be able to compete with other projects to attract funding. There are many creative people and great ideas in Latvia, which are undoubtedly at European and global level. Already in our country, one of the fastest growing export segments is the export of information technology goods and services. There are many great start-ups in Latvia. We have every opportunity to become a leader in 5G technologies. And this must be used, because 5G is a story of global competition on the European Union and worldwide. Honourable Members! Just a year ago, I said from this troupe that the fight against financial crime and respect for international sanctions is a common norm in the Western financial world. If a country does not respect this, market mechanisms or other countries shall be excluded. The fight against financial crime is important not only because it is required by the law, but first of all because it is right. Last year, Latvia made a great deal of efforts to combat money laundering and terrorism financing. Last year was a year of real action. The Latvian side was followed by quick and professional work, putting the process of legislative and sanction coordination policy in order. In the Moneyval evaluation published yesterday, the work so far has been marked by a positive sign. Although the work has not yet been completed, we hope that the progress made so far will continue to be properly assessed. Intolerant treatment of money laundering is important. Sufficient efforts should be made to detect and stop such cash flows as possible. At the same time, we must not find ourselves in a situation where honest businesses are exaggerating and suffering. In this respect, Latvia should continue to work to create all the necessary conditions to find concrete solutions together with the private sector and to make risk management more proportionate. Our experience so far and the financial turmoil of 2018 point to one important lesson: if we want to be perceived as a mature country, we must also behave not as a teenager, who cleans his room only when his parents shrunk for the third time, but as an adult, who realizes that no one else will clean his house instead of him. And we can't relax. Dear Members of the Saeima! Latvia's experience shows that growth and welfare gains go hand in hand with openness to the world, the presence of reliable allies and the ability to make responsible decisions for the attractiveness of Latvia as a trading partner and investment location. We cannot afford to drift in a windless area or a grey smoke shield. We must do everything to make Latvia a reliable and reliable partner both in the economy and in the international relations arena. The government, the Saeima and each of us individually have the greatest responsibility here. This year, together with our European Union partners, we will continue to work on the conclusion of new free trade agreements, including with Australia, New Zealand. We are also looking at the conclusion of the agreement with Mercosur, or South American trade blocs. We are interested in the resumption of free trade negotiations between the European Union and India. The representatives of the Latvian Diaspora have an important role to play in promoting Latvia's economic relations. Professionals already living in different parts of the world, with their knowledge and contact range, help to identify opportunities and partners for Latvian entrepreneurs as well. It must continue to be used. Diaspora policy has become an independent policy area. Traditionally important is our cooperation in maintaining Latvian language and culture, strengthening the links between children and young people with Latvia. It will continue. But our ability to develop dynamic cooperation in the economy, science, sport, to attract Latvia's necessary expertise in health, finance, economics and other sectors is becoming increasingly important. Dear Members and honourable Members, In relations with Russia, Latvia retains a two-way policy - dialogue and deterrence. We cannot ignore the concentration of Russian troops in Kaliningrad and in the Western Military Region of Russia. It is a demonstration of Russia's power. This is also a time when historical events and days of memory are especially important in modern politics and diplomacy. We respectfully commemorate the millions of victims who died in World War II. We highly appreciate the contribution of allies to the destruction of the chitleric Germany. This year will be celebrated 75 years since the end of the Second World War in Europe and the Far East. We understand that Hitler's Third Reich would not have a free Latvia. At the same time, we condemn the efforts of recent Russian officials and propaganda to justify Stalin's aggressive and criminal pre-war diplomacy. The conclusion of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, which divides Europe into spheres of influence, attacks on Poland, occupying the Baltic States and triggering the Winter War against Finland, is a direct result of this foreign policy. The Saeima's statement of 16 January on the unacceptableness of the occupation of Latvia and the distortion of the history of the Second World War clearly defines Latvia's position on this issue. This aspect of the Latvian Foreign Service also requires a consistent approach to explaining historical issues and creating objective historical memory. Therefore, the close, concerted action of the Baltic States, Poland and other allies and the expression of a unified message in order to strengthen Europe's historical memory are both of strategic importance and of symbolic importance. As long as Russia continues to rewrite history, celebrate the occupation of sovereign states and justify the action of the totalitarian regime, and continue aggression against Ukraine and Georgia, it is not possible to have an unconditional security space "from Lisbon to Vladivostok". Honourable Members! This year, we will celebrate the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations. Although Latvia could not be among the countries that joined this organization in 1945, it was the UN's first international organization in which Latvia joined immediately after regaining its independence. Latvia has consistently stood up for respect of international law and territorial integrity of states in UN and other international organisations. Although the UN and its institutions have been rightly criticised for the failures in ensuring peace and human rights in the world and for other things, it remains an indispensable guardian of international law. Therefore, Latvia recognised the mandatory jurisdiction of the UN International Court last year. In today's security challenges, multilateral cooperation, or multilateralism based on rules and international law, is the basis of international order. In the interest of national security, as well as in order to enhance Latvia's influence and visibility, Latvia is a candidate for the seat of the UN Security Council's volatile Member State between 2026 and 2027. The participation of small countries in the UN Security Council provides an opportunity to participate and to be visible in addressing the most important security issues in the world. At the same time, this participation represents the maturity of the country and its ability to assume responsibility for global processes. The candidate campaign is becoming a benefit by increasing Latvia's visibility and promoting our economic sectors on a global scale. For example, for Latvian entrepreneurs this can become a practical benefit in finding contacts and promoting products and services. In order to prepare Latvia for candidate and work in the UN Security Council, the government will formulate the content priorities of the Latvian candidacy campaign. In this context, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also preparing Latvia's development cooperation policy guidelines for the next period. Development cooperation instruments ensure Latvia's involvement and visibility outside traditional regions. There is a need to increase funding for development cooperation. It is a practical tool for Latvia's foreign policy to support positive change and development both in the world and in the regions. Excellency, ladies and gentlemen! In my own name and on behalf of the Latvian Foreign Service, shortly before the 99th anniversary of the international recognition of the Republic of Latvia, I would like to thank all our partners in the Saeima, colleagues in the government, state and municipal institutions and non-governmental organisations for their cooperation. Thank you very much to diplomats, consular officials and foreign service staff for their contribution to representing and defending Latvia in the world. We have an interesting and challenging year ahead. Let us work together for our country and for the people. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U5	Let us start a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U6	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U7	Please combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U8	Do Members have reservations that a Member brings together both times in the debate? There is no objection. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U9	Thank you. Dear Mr. Karin! Mr. Rinkēvičs! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour and responsibility of speaking on behalf of the Saeima instead of the Speaker of the Saeima, Mrs Ināra Mūrniece. She is currently on a duty mission in Israel, directly implementing parliamentary diplomacy. Ladies and gentlemen! We continue to celebrate the centenary of Latvia. And in this respect, the establishment of our state, its de iure recognition, and later the non-recognition of incorporation, the restoration of independence and its protection have not been imaginable without the support of our friends and allies. From the War of Independence to the present day, we always have allies who have trusted in Latvia and have supported us in difficult international conditions. In the area of security, the last year was full of worrying news. However, the decisions taken at the London Summit on the 70th anniversary of NATO and the US Congress's commitment to strengthening military presence in Latvia enhance our security and prove again that Latvia's transatlantic links are getting closer. We are very grateful for the presence of the Canadian-led NATO Battle Group in Latvia, on that day also Albanian, Italian, Polish, Slovenian and Spanish soldiers. Thank you. The next year in Europe will be difficult: the European Union will be experiencing the first withdrawal of its Member State, and this will inevitably have an impact on our agenda as well. But we already have an introduction in this exercise, we're just going to keep working. We will stand up for the interests of Latvia and the European Union, while maintaining good relations with the United Kingdom. Latvian institutions should seek to improve their activities in order to better defend the interests of our citizens living there. A small derogation. During the last few weeks, the public has discussed the lack of mutual understanding and cooperation between the public institutions involved in defending the rights of Latvian citizens. We have a lot of declaratory statements about the importance of man, but we lack the courage to get out of the regulatory frame by getting a man into unstatutory zones. The law records the conditions often with delays. And to avoid this as much as possible, we would like to work more actively as legislators. We also hope that unified understanding and action of institutions will follow by introducing the Diaspora law in life, which should increase the desire for compatriots to return to Latvia. We must also be firm in defending our position on the European Union's multiannual budget, while at the same time looking at the future, in which Latvia itself becomes a donor country in its prosperity. We would all like this to happen in a transparent future. Let us actively follow discussions on the future of Europe and, in the near future, let us also be able to integrate dynamically into the implementation of the European Union's green course in order to achieve the European Union's climate objectives. This would open up new opportunities not only for our scientists and entrepreneurs, but increasingly lead to changes in the views of society as a whole about our impact on the climate and to a link between actions and consequences. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that in 2020 the climate issue will also be one of the priorities of the European Union's foreign policy. And we are all eyewitnesses to this winter and also to the devastating Australian fires. It's about the economy. As foreign policy also has a close connection with the economy, I would like to emphasise that the foreign service, the various institutions and entrepreneurs are those who, day by day, increase Latvia's exports and economic growth in general. These efforts are bearing fruit, and I know that after the repair of the financial sector's capital, we will be able to develop more and more, with greater confidence from foreign investors. It can be concluded with satisfaction that the current expansion of our diplomatic representation network has been justified and has produced the expected results by contributing to our economy. This year we will continue discussions at the Saeima on the possibilities to open new embassies in Latin America, Africa and South-East Asia. However, I would like to say that the decision not to allocate funds to the opening of the embassy in Australia was a blow to the image of the country, and it saddened the Diaspora living there. In this regard, I take the opportunity, and I would like to thank our honorary consuls in Australia for the work they have done. I would like to thank all honorary consuls in the wider world who represent Latvia for their long-term contribution to Latvia. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign policy is made up of countless actors and I would like to emphasise once again interinstitutional cooperation in this regard. The President of Latvia, the Saeima, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are constantly improving the model of mutual cooperation. A good example of this is the events of the end of last year, when changes to the Ventspils port management model were quickly made in line with OECD recommendations and as a result we avoided a possible severe economic shock, while at the same time putting an end to one great stage of corruption. The direct day-to-day work of the Saeima and the Foreign Affairs Commission also takes place in various Saeima commissions, discussing Latvia's positions in the Foreign Affairs Council and the General Affairs Council, as well as openly and constructively discussing a wide range of local issues. Last year, a qualitative leap has taken place in this respect, because in the new parliamentary term Members thoroughly and responsibly question officials about Latvia's positions and turn more monitoring into a common context. We are determined to maintain this trend. Members of the Saeima shall be responsible for the implementation of parliamentary diplomacy. At various levels, at international meetings and individually as Members, we carry out our foreign policy function with our feet and presence. We show our interest in following international and regional developments by developing bilateral cooperation and developing a coordinated foreign policy. I would like to emphasise bilateral inter-parliamentary cooperation, because not all national parliamentary groups have bilateral cooperation. Denmark and I have no bilateral... what I would like to stress. In that regard, it is worth remembering that 13 53 parliamentary groups have been set up in the Saeima to promote cooperation with national parliaments - 53 working groups - so I call on colleagues to be more active and to use this instrument proactively. Well, as an example, after a 10 year break, we have formed active bilateral inter-parliamentary ties with the French National Assembly. That makes us very happy. This year the 75th anniversary of the end of the Second World War will be celebrated, and the task of all of us is to explain what this victory brought to Latvia. On 16 January, the Saeima adopted a decision on the 80th anniversary of the occupation of Latvia and condemned the distortion of the history of the Second World War. The Latvian Parliament rejects the attempts of officials of the Russian Federation to deny historical facts about the causes of the Second World War, its course and conclusion. This position not only affects Latvia, it is also important for Poland, it is important for the whole of the Baltic, because we live in a hybrid war, where Western countries also need a coordinated, systematic and long-term approach to combating disinformation. NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence in Riga is a successful example of joint international cooperation in research into strategic communication and information manipulation. It is very important that such a centre is located in Riga. In the foreign policy debate of the Saeima, I would like to welcome the work of the Saeima in the Baltic Assembly, taking over the Presidency of Latvia throughout the year. It has brought many measures closer to our fellow Members, especially the young politicians. It was a special year for the Baltic Assembly because we celebrated not only the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, but also remembered a significant and symbolic event in the history of our country, which is still resonating around the world, the Baltic Way. I would like to highlight the work of the Saeima delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The delegation strengthened and supported Ukraine and sought to restore confidence in this important organisation of human rights. We will wish the delegation success this year, when we celebrate the 25th anniversary of Latvia's participation in this organisation. And together with like-minded countries, we will work on maintaining and protecting the fundamental values of the organisation. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen! When comparing the beginning of the first centenary of our foreign service with today, I cannot mention any symbolic similarity between two personalities in my view. The first Latvian Foreign Minister, Zigfried Anna Meierovics, laid the foundations for Latvia's statehood and foreign service. Under his leadership, the first Latvian envoys are opened and significant decisions are reached in strengthening the foundations of the foreign policy of a new country. Today, the Foreign Minister, Edgars Rinkēvičs, is headed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at a very international tension where errors can be priced. It must be remembered that, like Mr. Meierovica... each of them has worked the longest time in their history compared to other Latvian foreign ministers. Foreign Minister Zigfried Anna Meierovics worked for six years, but Mr Rinkēvičs has already been working on this stage for the ninth time in a row. I assume that, since there is a lot of criticism in this debate, you will certainly hear a lot of criticism, and that is why I would like to thank Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs for his position, professionalism and all the qualities with which he has managed to lead the foreign policy course by strengthening Latvia's role in international politics. Mr. Rinkēvičs, thank you for that. (Applause) In the context of our assessment of the foreign service, I would like to mention and at the same time congratulate the former Ambassador of Latvia to the European Union, Ilzi Juhansoni, who has been approved this month as Secretary General of the European Commission, the highest and therefore most influential official in this institution. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the cooperation between our diplomatic and consular service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, those many of our missions abroad that support parliamentary diplomacy, as well as anyone who implements civil diplomacy and enhances Latvia's good reputation in the world! Minister! I personally wish you strength and endurance, and let the foreign service meet the centenary of our country in 2021 under your leadership - in security, prosperity and even closer ties with our allies in the world! Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U10	Thank you to Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U11	Dear Chairman of the sitting and the Bureau. Dear Members, honourable Members, Ministers, honours! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking you. I would like to begin by thanking our Foreign Minister, Edgars Rinkēvičs, for a really professional, comprehensive and balanced report. I read it twice. The second time I read the idea of having forgotten, and I didn't find it. So, thank you very much Mr. Rinkēvičs. Of course, not only about the report, but also about the self-deserving work. Thank you both to him and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for long-term defence of our country representing abroad. Let us remember that our foreign service is the only service ever since our country was established! In 1919, when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs established... Last year's centenary was celebrated, now it's 101st anniversary. Because during the entire occupation, two embassies continued to work: one in Washington, and one in London. So, really, thank you and all the respect for all those who have worked a long time to defend our country's interests in the wider world. When we talk about the world, if we think about it - and this is also what the report says - there are four big centres of power and economics in the world today: the United States, the European Union, Russia and China. It is clear that Latvia's place in this broad world perspective is together with the European Union, together with our strategic and military... Allies... partners... The United States and the rest of the NATO family... and more generally, the organisation we have relatively recently joined, the OECD, which attracts countries such as Japan and others. For us, this cooperation with those whom we could so widely regard as allies of the West is the basis for ensuring our foreign policy and the independence of our country. That's... It is the basis from which we come and, of course, we will do our utmost to continue to work with our partners. And I would also like to thank all our partners, as Head of Government, who are both actively involved in ensuring our military security through NATO... mission... which is permanently located in Latvia, as well as in a broader sense. Our interests in foreign policy are, of course, to ensure our independence. And there are two aspects of how we need to do it, as we do. One is political, the other is economic. From a political point of view, we as part of the European Union are actually part of the world's richest market, which has not yet developed as a major military player in the world. In time, this could be the case, but today it is not. Today, the European Union has a much greater role to play in the economic field, but not just. The European Union is also a great centre of values... freedom, democracy, equality. These are values that we bring with our European allies. And now in our close neighbourhood, in the east, there are not only Russia, but there are other countries that the European Union has defined as those countries of the Eastern Partnership. Our country has a particular interest and a particular role to play in strengthening the good relations of the European Union with the Eastern partner countries. Why? For our part, we are interested in giving these countries a friendly hand, showing them that there is an alternative to them - not only Russia as a centre of power, but the European Union as a centre of power. Specifically. Last week I had the opportunity to visit Belarus, one of these countries, including one of our neighbours. And it coincides now that our interests, including economic interests, to increase cooperation with Belarus, coincide with the openly expressed desire of the Belarusian authorities to extend cooperation with us specifically, but not only in the transit of oil from the west through the ports of Latvia to Belarus. It is in their interest to diversify their source, our interest to help them make this diversification. Politically, we are in a situation where we have not been in a long time, but this is a challenge for us now with our own companies. I have a question: are our port companies prepared for such cooperation? Politically mature... That could happen. And this is a great challenge, because we know that our ports have had historical difficulties. One might argue that there has been some stagnation there, because for years we have been talking and hearing about it and knew that Russian policy (and this is the written policy) is to channel its cargo flows away from the Baltic ports to Russian ports, where we know they have invested a lot of money. But our companies... I am not sure if everyone has understood that this means taking action. During this year, we have taken over the management of ports by the Saeima law, the management of large ports, in the hands of the government, but we still have the second challenge: those private companies... which operate in these ports. We need to encourage them also to participate, to say, in the real development trends of the world economy and to modernise. We cannot, we are a democratic state, we have an open economy, we cannot, neither by government decree nor by the Saeima's decision to force a private businessman to do this or this. But from this platform, I publicly call on our port companies, our terminals, to see the opportunity to cooperate... of which - also with cargo flows to Belarus... not only by transporting from Russia... perhaps also Belarusian goods to the west... There is a possibility in our country. If we are thinking about the development of our railways, the railways have great potential. And here's the potential, as well as the additional use of our networks. Politically, there is a very important aspect of this, because we know that where there is good economic cooperation there is also more contact. And, of course, we have an interest in our immediate neighbours coming closer to us and Europe, not in a completely different direction. From an economic point of view, we have many and very professional embassies in many countries, and we have representatives of Latvian Investment and Development Agencies of the Ministry of Economics in many countries. Economic cooperation is on two sides again: one is Latvia's export and the other is investment in our economy. I would call for all diplomats, all LIAA employees to think about investments. Our priority is to promote investment from our Western allies, from Europe, from America, from OECD countries. This is our great priority to promote investment. And specifically: there is a huge, huge opportunity that our companies have and what Latvia has - that is what has already been talked about - the so-called European Green Deal. And one another... I got one book here on global warming... which argues that it is foolish; that there is no role for mankind. (Laughter) It is pointless to argue with each other here, but I remind you purely practically: in the European Union, the so-called green course has been politically decided for a long time, which, with directives and regulations, guarantees - guarantees! - 500 million citizens' markets for technologies that will be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions... the effect of gas emissions on energy efficiency, on renewable energy sources. And looking at potential investments in our economy, we have to put together two basic things - a charming environment in Latvia where we can develop our business, and a specific goal of what kind of business we see. High technology - especially companies that will be able to participate and earn from green exchange policy. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Where do we have them?” ) Green course - Latvia has an opportunity. Opportunity, and it must be exploited. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Love past!” ) If we do not use it, we are actually doing one major unemployment for ourselves. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “We used one chance - OIK!” ) The second direction is export. And exports in this case... And we've grown up in companies in these 29 years of independence... that we are increasingly competitive on the world market. Our exports are to all countries. Not only to our Western allies, of course, but also to the east, Africa, South America, India and elsewhere. So we have a lot of work in foreign policy. And all those who work externally should encourage investment from Western allies in high technologies, because without high technologies we will not have the big salary we want in Latvia. And the other is to promote exports around the world, including east and south. A year ago, Latvia was more a foreign policy observer, perhaps a consumer. In the last 15 years, it is safe that Latvia has become increasingly intensively and increasingly one such passive observer to one active policy-maker in the past 10 years. And this role... we have been conquered by individuals, institutions and the state as a whole. We need to strengthen this role. It's happening right now... Some individuals may be mentioned. Here we have already mentioned from the troupe that the European Commission's highest official at the several tens of thousands of office is a Latvian, our former ambassador; our European Commissioner is one of the three highest standing Commissioners with one of the most important economic portfolios - Mr Dombrovskis. Our voice is being heard in the world. We stand for a single market, we stand for... against money laundering and the strengthening of the financial system in Europe and the rest of the world in general. We stand for the Eastern Partnership, against disinformation. We in Latvia have one of the Euro... from NATO's leading centres in this area. We are no longer the little country that is just taking the opposite. We are absolutely equal to the vote that argues, listens to and makes up this policy. We do not need to be ashamed of this role; we need to strengthen this role. And that is why I call once again on every one of us who works in the foreign service to remember that we are not those little brothers anymore, we are equal, we are listening. We are, of course, continuing to listen to and discuss, but we are actively shaping their policies. That is what I am calling for every Member of the Saeima, every one of you, too, when you go on missions when you meet your colleagues in other countries - we are similar. We're like that. And so I would also like to conclude my speech, once again, thanks to Mr Rinkēvičs and to the entire foreign service, reminding everyone who represents our country that we must continue to provide our place in the world - not just to wait for someone to do it in our place, but to stand ourselves clearly on his own feet and to guide our interests with our very strong and good allies. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U12	Thank you to Prime Minister Kariņš. Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U13	Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas! Honourable Members! All the fractions! Excellency! Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Foreign Minister! If we want, as the Prime Minister said, to stand firm with both feet on the ground, then we need to understand the realities of the world and to give up on the illusions and assumptions of life. The defence industry, the Ministry of Defence, our armed forces are the ones who are among the most realistic and realistic of the situation in the world. Here, in the foreign policy debate, we have traditionally taken part in the defence sector, because security and defence are always a large foreign policy chapter and also foreign policy is always a large chapter on our security and defence issues. We are now living in an increasingly complex world - purely geopolitical. Real policy is increasingly extortioning institutions, international institutions, and an idealistic approach to international politics. That is what we will, unfortunately, have to bear in mind in the near future. This means that the role of regional powers is growing, with an increasing focus on the interests of national states and on the military. That is the fact. It also means that, from the perspective of Latvia's interests, we have to take this into account, because as a small country we are classically based on a very active policy, as it has always been in our power in international institutions. This was determined by our first foreign policy priorities in the 1990s, when we set our main goal - and a very correct goal! - accession to the European Union and NATO. Nothing has changed, Latvia is and remains a very stable and reliable partner and will support both the European Union and the transatlantic organisation. We are one of those countries that are also called for the so-called two-percent lunch, because we are ready to pay at least two per cent of our gross domestic product for protection. And for that I also thank the Latvian Saeima and all the institutions involved, because quite a great consensus has been reached in our society, the consensus that we must take care of our own security as much as we can. Those who no longer want to pay two percent of their gross domestic product for protection are, to a large extent, those who support a foreign interest or some marginal forces within our country. Overall, we have a consensus here. Go on. I would like to say that, as a result of increasing real policy, of course, we still need to maintain a very strong emphasis on cooperation with our international partners. First of all, I would like to divide the United States here, because it is the main military and political force that has given us support both in the past and today, both with military assistance and with military financial assistance and also with future security. We have to understand that today's world can to a large extent be compared... like a meeting between two cats. One is that room cat, which is well fed, with a round gun, and which comes to the window in the morning and looks out - watching if it's a nice time, and dreaming about what's waiting for him on the street. And that's the other side - it's such a good street saying that there's a lot of teeth that's a bit hungry, and that's some revanchism. Unfortunately, I must say that, although we in the West, in the European Union have done a great deal to keep the world in a stable state, in the military sense, a number of us, including in the European Union, are, unfortunately, reminding of this protagonist in the room, who really cannot go out and face the street in a real political way. And that is the problem we have to work on. Because if we look at the European continent right now, we can see that the European continent cannot stand for its own security interests without support from the United States. That is the problem. This is a problem, because if there is something that we do not want, we get to some kind of conventional conflict or hybrid war, Europe cannot stand by itself. That is what we must remind our partners. And we have to understand that, when we spoke 15-20 years ago, the European Union is the soft power that will take care of the economy that will support development aid to third countries or less developed regions of the world, and NATO will, here, be the power that will provide military... military capabilities, or America will be the power that will provide military capabilities... It's gone. Europe must start thinking about its own military capabilities and not only think, but also do so. We must not live in illusions, we must not live in dreams. As a rule, we still hear very often such calls for dialogue, for conferences, for negotiations. It's all right. But when we go to negotiations like that little room kitten, we often do not know what we want to achieve in these negotiations and with this dialogue. We do not have a clear target. The street tavern, for example, for Russia, is quite clear about what she wants to achieve in the negotiations that she wants to achieve in Libya, what she wants to achieve in Syria and what she wants elsewhere. Dialogue without purpose is often a waste of time. We therefore need to invest in conventional forces, we need to support the majority of gross domestic product in the countries of the European Union for military protection, and Latvia is a good example here. I also put great hope on the new Presidents of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leiena, who, firstly, has experience in the defence sector and, secondly, is the Head of the European Commission, who has the greatest experience in the last 15 years, directly with the Baltic States. We don't live in illusions anymore. We understand that we must rely to a large extent on solidarity, on 5, 4 and 3. Article of the NATO Agreement. We know that we are here, also in Latvia, with almost 10 countries participating in this IFP group, protecting not only the security of Latvia, but also the external borders of the European Union and NATO, but we are ready to do our utmost and set an example for other countries of the European Union and NATO to take care of their security. That is why the Ministry of Defence has put forward this initiative - to introduce comprehensive national defence in the country, as of 2024 - protection training. We are doing a great deal to increase the combat capacity of our army. And I can say with confidence that we can rely on the armed forces of Latvia, on Latvian soldiers, because in everyday training it is an army that is a combatable army, although a relatively small but combatable army. But that is not enough for us. We also need to take care of more military assistance from our allies in Europe, not only in the United States. We need to think about more successful cooperation in the region not only with the countries of the European Union and NATO, which are Poland, which is traditionally the Nordic countries, because our understanding of geopolitical and security is no longer just an understanding of Latvia or the Baltic; to a large extent, our understanding of what is happening here with us in Northern Europe is the same as that of Sweden, Finland, Norway, Poland and Denmark. And I want to say that we have very good cooperation with these countries. I would particularly like to highlight Poland, with which we have recently celebrated the release of the eastern part of Latvia - Latgale - and I think that our cooperation with Poland will only increase. I have decided to send our military attaché to Warsaw precisely to promote this cooperation. We are also concerned about what is happening from us to the south and east, especially when we are thinking of providing assistance to countries such as Georgia, Ukraine, and we are concerned, of course, also about our neighbour, Belarus, and about stability in that country. We very much hope that this neighbouring country will continue to be a good partner for us - a cross-border partner, an economic partner - and will be able to fully preserve both our sovereignty and future growth. Let us believe in ourselves! Let us remember that geopolitical challenges are big at the moment and are real-political. We can't replace them with different illusions. Let us take care of our security and be active in foreign policy and here. Thank you to our foreign service. In the defence sector, you will always find support, and let us work together. Thank you all, and thank you also to our Saeima for your support and for this new budget. I hope that in future, we will no longer have to go and convince people that we need to invest in our security, because it is also the integration of our society, the consolidation of our society and also our internal security - what the Latvian army, the Latvian armed forces, are doing. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U14	Thank you to the Minister for Defence, Mr Pabrik. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U15	Colleagues, please allow me to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U16	Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U17	Thank you. Madam Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Excellency! Colleagues! Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his report. Thank you, too, for the traditional call for Members of the Saeima to submit proposals to complete the report! I highlight this because it is obvious that the Ministry recommended supplements are taken into account, assessed by nature and integrated in the final report. This type of cooperation is organic and indicates good synergy between the Saeima and the Ministry - the final result is still the report of the Foreign Minister, but it is qualitatively complemented with the positions of Parliament's foreign policy. The introduction of such cooperation practices should also be aimed at other ministries, as all of us would benefit. Let's start with the work done on foreign affairs. Every year's review begins with the same characteristic words - unpredictable, stormy, amazing, dynamic... It's funny and paradoxical, but it proves Einstein's idea that the only permanent thing in the world is change. This is particularly true of foreign policy. Still as a constant and primary task of foreign policy, I believe in ensuring continuity of independence of Latvia. I see this thesis for the first time in our foreign policy report, the very first sentence - as a kind of preamble! I think that in the future this phrase can fulfil precisely the function of a preamble in the foreign report - that there is always a definition of the common goal on which to assess the progress made and on which to define its priorities. Last year, the Foreign Affairs Commission called for greater parliamentary involvement in foreign policy processes as one of its main tasks in this term. Looks like we applied for the right year... In 2019, international organisations and norms – international order – also clearly represent a reduction in the role and impact of international organisations and norms. An example is the first challenge of parliamentary diplomacy at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe when, last June, the EPPA decided to restore the right to vote in Russia. I think you know the story. There is still pride in the firm position, the show of Latvia. Everything is going on next week, as the new ESPA session in which Ukraine has decided to participate begins. It is hoped that long-awaited rules and standards will also be adopted, promising to settle the procedure for restricting Member States in cases of infringements. In this part-session, I call on our delegation to keep its back straight and to insist strongly on a response from the Assembly on whether the resolutions adopted so far by the EPPA concerning Russia's violations are now binding on Russia. The answer must be very clear - yes or no - without legal acrobatics or climbing. If the answer is "yes, it is binding", action must be taken immediately and infringement proceedings against Russia should be initiated during the same part-session for non-compliance. If the answer is no, it is not binding, all the resolutions previously adopted must be put to the vote at the same part-session. The events of the EPPA are important because they show a broader trend: in relations with Russia from certain Western countries, we see a desire to move closer, such as the fatigue and apathy of the sanctions policy. It is also called a multi-lateralist crisis. We are not, of course, in the face of the collapse of the Versailles system, as we did in the 1930s. For some, the ghost of Yalta's agreement continues to follow and remind about itself, creating a desire to try to repeat history. Some like to call on the Cold War, but that does not mean that it really is materializing at the moment. The international system would then be paralyzed. But the big players of the world do not leave important forms of cooperation, such as, let us say, the UN. No matter how bright a trend towards isolation in some places, no matter how much as some world leaders do not like such or such a system, they also come to the United Nations General Assembly every year - at least to complain about it. Three smart monkeys' isolation approach - I don't see, quiet, I don't hear. There is a vacuum, and nature does not love emptiness - emptiness always makes care and a little timid, because the direct consequences of such a policy in history are quite well documented. The UN Secretary-General said that "multilateralism is called into question precisely at a time when we need it most". And he's absolutely right. There are problems that need to be addressed only in multilateral cooperation: climate change, migration control, arms control and weapons of mass destruction, and cyberspace protection. People in the world are demanding change, demanding decisive action in the fight against climate change, and politicians are obliged to hear this call. Our most important goal for 2020 should be to develop an intelligent climate policy. In the area of the new green transformation, Latvia is at the forefront, so we have the opportunity to create a climate policy that not only does not reduce the level of prosperity, but can also become a catalyst for welfare growth. But alone we can as much as we can and change requires a global agreement. That is why we very much need multilateralism, and at the same time this is being called into question by now. It is a crisis of legitimacy in which the very foundations of the system are called into question: agreement, institutions defining our rules of conduct and rights based on the principle of equality between sovereign states, regardless of the size of the country, ideology or governance system. From international order to security. President Putin has been in power for 20 years, and Russia under his leadership is continuing to develop a revanchist and aggressive foreign policy aimed at destabilising democratic states, distrusting and sowing doubts in society, while at the same time implementing illegal military expansion and aggression. Mitigation of attitudes, despite Moscow's continued interference in the internal processes of other countries, despite the Kremlin's crimes, only increases the confidence of this regime in its impunity. In recent decades, Russia and other countries have noticed that sometimes the consequences of violations of international law can only be expected in relative terms. In this way, Russia emptys the limits, and these methods, some kind of new modus operandi, may encourage other countries to do the same. The growing geopolitical ambitions of China are clearly visible; they have an increasingly powerful military dimension, which we can see when China modernises its armed forces and gradually increases its influence in the Arctic and South Asia. China is also emptying its borders, but unlike Russia, in full compliance with international law and law, it uses more refined soft power instruments (e.g. in the fields of culture, science, education) to spread its influence. Investments in companies and infrastructure, and even research centres, and cultural exchanges help China to grow leverage and build its network of scholarships across the world, also in Latvia - with the influence of China we will have to take more and more into account when working in international organisations and engaging in international forms of cooperation. Russia strongly demonstrates its military capabilities, in constant irritation to NATO in the Baltic and Black Sea and in maintaining a significant military presence in Syria, Africa, South America, by committing the murder of its opponents right here in Europe, also by acting purposefully to attract Turkey to its military orbit. Sometimes it is more successful than we would like, because Turkey's extended integration with Russia can undermine NATO's missile defence foundations and undermine Ankara's confidence in the NATO Alliance. At the same time, President Macron is driving the thesis tirelessly, that we should bring Russia closer this year and in the years to come. No, on the contrary, we need to step up genuine partnerships with Turkey. The Middle East was especially hot at the beginning of this year. The rapid escalation in the region is worrying, and any action can lead to an unpredictable and uncontrolled series of events, such as domino pebbles breaking up any stability that is still found in the region. NATO remains the cornerstone of our security. At the end of last year, NATO leaders in London approved the Alliance's improved defence plans for the Baltic States and Poland. As we know, soon in Latvia... Member States within the NATO Battle Group will have to take decisions on the extension of the mission. What we can do, and in fact everything we need to do, is to show how much we value the contribution of allies to strengthening the security of Latvia and the Alliance as a whole. Support received from the United States at the end of 2019 clearly demonstrates allies' commitment to collective defence commitments in the Eastern European Flange. In addition to a safe and international environment, Latvia needs a good external economic policy, whose objectives and priorities still need to be clearly defined as measurable criteria. There is a need for a platform for coordinating the acquisition of investment and market niches (not markets), defining exactly what we want to achieve and what we want to get from them. There is a lack of clear guidance at national level for all institutions involved in attracting and maintaining investment. It is necessary to establish common inter-institutional guidelines on priority investment objects and sectors in Latvia and to clearly define the country's priority export routes - destination. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the Ministry of Latvia's image in the world, must assume the role of a flagship in the development of this policy, and the ministries and Cabinet of Ministers in defining the objectives and the results to be achieved in the relevant sectors. It would be useful here to draw attention to the importance of future implementation of development cooperation policy. I join this assessment in knowing that we will soon have to decide on a rather significant increase in the budget specifically for strengthening these instruments. We must be aware that development policy is an important foreign policy instrument and, in the long term, we have the opportunity to guide our priorities in important regions using the resources available to us - expertise, experience, funding, not forgetting that intangible resources also have added value through their proper use. Last year, Latvia directly strengthened the legitimacy of international law by its actions in foreign policy. That's what we can be proud of. Last year, the President of Latvia made a declaration during the UN General Assembly on Latvia's accession to the mandatory jurisdiction of the International Court. It was a symbolic message to the whole world, showing that Latvia is acting with the greatest responsibility towards international law, and at the same time providing itself with the opportunity to turn to the most authoritative institution of international courts if necessary. And when you go back... talking about relationships. It is clear that the break will take place on 31 January. But will this mean the end of the passions of the bruxy procedure? Not at all. Although tiring, nothing has yet come to an end. In 2020, negotiations will take place between the UK and the European Union on future relations, as well as on a new trade relations agreement. There are already a number of scenarios in which the British Prime Minister could put the emphasis on narrowing, abolishing or ignoring European Union rules and standards, which we certainly cannot agree to. Our clear priority in these negotiations is and will remain our citizens, their rights and status after Britain has left. And in conclusion. Last year, the Saeima supported the draft decision taken by the Foreign Affairs Commission, in which we recognise the deportation of Crimean Tatars as a purposeful genocide that took place 76 years ago. We hear attempts to undermine the importance of such and similar political statements, declarations and resolutions, trying to counter anything that has once been found to be more important. Let me, however, take the opportunity to remind myself, colleagues, that no norm and no principle are in themselves - they must be permanently confirmed by their actions or positions, thus reminding themselves and others that we still regard certain values, norms or principles as binding to ourselves and others. The more we depart from them, the more they can be called into question, the more they will weaken, the more ‘arms’ we leave in the hands of those forces whose objectives are fundamental destructive. The fight for what is the norm and what is acceptable will continue. That is why the decision of the Saeima mentioned above, as well as others, had to be made, and this is very important at a time when Russia is trying to rewrite the history of living memory, to wash its hands from all the sins of the past and today in order to build a superhuman myth regime for strengthening legitimacy through the formation of a national identity. Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that foreign policy is a reflection of internal policy. Today I would like to invite you to think on the other hand - foreign policy is an instrument for realising the common interests of Latvian society. Foreign policy is an instrument of national interest of Latvia. It was in 1918 when Latvia, together with our allies, won independence. It was also at the time of Awakening, when our national interests determined Latvia's return to Europe. That must continue to be the case. Our interests define our actions. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U18	Thank you, Mr. Cole. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for a break. Please check-in mode! Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary, Maria Golubeva, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U19	Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Mārtiņš Bondars, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš (Interface: Yes!) ), Janīna Kursīte, Inara Mūrniece and Didzis Šmits.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U20	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U21	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue the debate. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U22	Hello, Madam President. Minister for Foreign Affairs and fellow Members. Last year in Europe was a great year of change for us: a new Parliament, a new Commission. For the rest of the year, we are waiting: whether the European Union will become smaller when it comes to Britain or larger when it joins Albania and North Macedonia. To the end, we did not answer our own questions about how we will be prepared for the future: will we be able to balance the cohesion objective that has not yet been fully achieved in the next multiannual budget, but at the same time invest in the future - Europe's competitiveness, security and - even more importantly - show leadership in global challenges such as climate change mitigation? In 2019 Latvia joined those countries that actively support ambitious climate objectives and climate neutrality in the European Union by 2050. For Latvia it requested a review of its national position. And next year, it will require us to review many of our policies. Words are expressed, the objectives are set, but now the work. The green course announced by the new Commission will mean an increasing share of the European multiannual budget for climate objectives. There will be new financial instruments in the European Union to achieve these ambitious objectives. It is in Latvia's interest to be deep inside this green course. President of the European Commission von der Leien points out: "Let's move first and move fast!" But I was a little worried if we had heard this call to move. Undoubtedly, it is easier and more convenient to enter the position that "changes are difficult, changes are expensive"; "If Europe wants it to pay for it"; "Let's wait for it to be unachievable"; "What do we start with?" . I call on us, however. It is in Latvia's interest. Latvia needs to be glowed with rapid movements towards the objective of climate neutrality, so that we are not a brake factor, but those who first pick up speed, as you can use these new opportunities, including financial opportunities, to develop your economy with innovation, ambition and courage. The Treaties establishing the European Union reinforce values and the mission of promoting and protecting democracy, both inside and outside the European Union. And while democratic values seem to be self-evident and eternal, they must be discussed every day. And these discussions continue within Europe. Within the framework of Article 7, discussions with Poland and Hungary have lasted and we seem to remain unsolved. The Article 7 procedure is serious, with serious consequences. And so far, experience shows that we need new mechanisms and solutions to offer different ways of strengthening the rule of law and values. It is important that we do not lose value from the European agenda. And this line of values must be set to be equally high and actively applied equally to all Member States. The annual report on the rule of law in the European Union together with the periodic review mechanism is a positive contribution to this instrument. But Europe must also be prepared for situations where significant violations of the rule of law cannot be resolved through dialogue alone. The arm's length action must be such as to enable serious infringements to be sanctioned where necessary. Such an instrument is proposed, for example, by a proposal that travels with the next multiannual budget. It is a proposal for a mechanism to suspend European Union funding for serious violations of the rule of law. Such a mechanism must itself be fair, that is, equally applicable to all Member States. It must be launched only after an in-depth dialogue and cooperation process and be based on legally correct conclusions. But there must be such a mechanism. The debate on values is also a debate on the enlargement of the European Union. It is in the interests of Europe and Latvia to extend the democratic space in Europe, thus also strengthening security in the region. In the autumn, the opening of enlargement negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia was delayed. We deliberately or unintentionally sent out demonising signals to all those countries that purposefully carry out democratic reforms in their countries with a long-term ambition to join the European Union. We signaled that participation in the European project is probably not linked to the ability of the candidate countries themselves to meet European standards of democracy and rule of law. We had doubts in our neighbourhood as to whether the European way for them was the right one. I appreciate the fact that Latvia has supported the opening of the negotiation process with Albania and North Macedonia, and I hope that the forthcoming summit between the European Union and the Western Balkan countries this spring will have the Latvian voice among those who will convincingly say that the path of democratisation for the Western Balkan countries is the safe way to Europe and that we will also put our hand and voice in order to open the door to the opening of enlargement negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia. The discussion of values is also about how to deal with new challenges. The digital economy, the digital tools, the digital world - this is the future of economic development, but it also poses challenges to democratic values. It is necessary to recognise that authoritarian regimes systematically use digital tools to reinforce the attacks on democrats. Digital tools used for wrong purposes pose a threat: disinformation, misinformation dissemination, manipulation of public opinion, interference in electoral processes. The European Union is increasingly able to respond to these challenges thanks to Latvia's efforts to keep this issue on the European Union agenda. And it is one of the special roles for Latvia in the European Union - to maintain security issues on the agenda. We, together with our immediate neighbours, are the eastern border of Europe. It is a border beyond which a country which is well-known, a country whose actions threaten the security of the region, lies. Since Russia's military aggression against Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea, the European Union has pursued a policy of sanctions against Russia. The sanctions must be renewed regularly. The next time we decide on this this summer. Latvia's task is to ensure that sanctions policy is not softened until a solution to the conflict in Eastern Ukraine and the situation in Crimea is found. The task is not easy, as it seems as though it's going to be a memory in many parts of Europe. There is no shortage of votes in Europe calling for a softening of the position. Last year, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe decided to restore the voting rights of Russia, which had been lost in connection with events in Ukraine. This is one indication that Russia's violations of international law are beginning to slip in the second plan. But it is the responsibility of Latvia to continue reminding that these violations are and, as time goes, they have not lost their meaning. This spring will give a start to a two-year conference on the future of Europe. The conference plans an extensive discussion on how we will continue to live together in Europe - on political priorities, on values, also on changes in institutions and on cooperation between Member States. As a result, new policies and changes are possible in the basic documents of the European Union. Thanks to the active, professional, highly valued people of Latvia in the European Commission, European institutions, the European Parliament, thanks to the effective functioning of our own foreign service and ministries, we have already proved that Latvia's voice sounds far beyond and louder than could be expected from two million people in the 500 million European citizens' family. At this conference on the future of Europe, too, our voice must be resonated beyond our numerical size. It is in Latvia's interest to demonstrate itself as a contributor to the future of Europe, as a supporter of a strong Europe and as a holder of democratic European values.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U23	Thank you to Mrs. Steel. The name of Member Inese Voika. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U24	Hello, honourable Member of the Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, Minister! Your Highness Ambassadors! Welcome! Dear colleagues, A year ago, when the foreign policy debate took place, the government of Krišjānis Kariņš had just been approved, and we discussed what we wanted to see in Latvia's foreign policy. And today we can look back on what has been done and mark the vector to what needs to be done. I speak today on behalf of our group and, in our view, three vectors will be the most important in the coming year: a foreign policy based on values and principles, a courageous work for the future and solidarity and cooperation for security and development. I'll start with the last one. Cooperation and solidarity. In a week's time, we will see what caused uncertainty and uncertainty throughout the last year: 31 January, but in Latvia on 1 February one night will finally come a brex and the United Kingdom will leave the European Union, as the voters decided several years ago. However, the brux is not the beginning of the end of the European Union, as has been said earlier. The elections to the national parliaments in several Member States of the European Union and, finally, also last year's elections to the European Parliament, have shown that the break will rather be the end of the beginning. In that sense, there is a new beginning, in which the unity of the Western world must not be accepted as a whole fundamental gift. Instead, we can and will be flexible in looking for better forms of cooperation and continuing to develop closer relations with the United Kingdom. We continue to have common interests and activities in many international organisations - the Council of Europe, the OECD, the UN and elsewhere. The British contingent is one of the leading NATO forces in the Baltic States, assuming responsibility and leadership in Estonia. It marks cooperation with both the British and NATO, a further role in strengthening the security of Latvia. And here the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik, has our full support for the implementation of a prudent and solidarity-oriented defence and security policy in the field of international cooperation. As far as the European Union is concerned - it must also be open to new Member States - North Macedonia, Albania and others. The European Union must continue to work closely with the Eastern Partnership countries and Latvia must set an example in this cooperation. Support for Ukraine, its new government and parliament in 2020 is a task for both the European Union and Latvia. The Baltic States and their experts have played a special role in Ukraine over the last five years, and we need to continue and strengthen this support, and we need to devote our development resources to it. Regarding solidarity and cooperation with Ukraine, last year marked the accession of Latvia and the Baltic States to Ukraine at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in which we called for Russia's right to vote until aggression in Ukraine was prevented. And we need to continue with this work with new intensity. Latvia as a whole needs to invest more in development cooperation, support programmes in areas where we are strong. Gender equality and the role of women in society is one of the issues of Latvia's experience, on which many of our partners have shown a strong interest in recent times. Europe is a community of values. And Latvia must continue to stand up for it. In this area, we want to highlight the issues of values, the rule of law and the rule of law in the European Union, particularly in the context of the situation in Poland and Hungary. The European Union needs a permanent mechanism for monitoring democracy and the rule of law. We must be able to see and respond to our own situation in the European Union before we ask for something from other countries outside the European Union. The European Commission should have a greater right to motivate these principles by means of financial instruments. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure equal treatment of all Member States. The quality of democracy and the rule of law is not only a matter for the Central and Eastern European countries. The politicisation and slowness of justice is also common in some countries of southern Europe. In the World Law Authority Index, some European countries are among other things behind the Republic of South Africa, many of which we have talked about in this week about the Latvian citizen's case. Latvia's decline in 2019 in the corruption perception index, which was published today, also shows that we still have a lot of work to do in our own home. States capable of controlling corruption... There people live longer and happierly! For a courageous work in the name of the future and for Latvia. Last year Latvia joined the European Union's group of Member States, which stand up for faster solutions in the area of climate change. In the government of Karini... and with the Minister of Environmental Supervision, Juris Pūci, we are ready to continue this work. In 2019 Latvia received the first OECD environmental assessment with the relevant recommendations that we will work on. Climate change must be seen as a way of preserving the environment and developing the economy in new directions. In the context of economic and modern future, an important European and global policy issue should be mentioned about the agreement on a new tax regime that would prevent multinational multi-billion companies from tax evasion and stop public services in the Member States of the European Union, including Latvia, from losing the necessary funds. And another point is about courageous work in the name of the future. In 2019 for the first time Latvia had a representative in the UN Youth League, and this programme continues to evolve. Young people form an international envoy programme - they learn to be equal and meaningful partners in the development of Latvia's foreign policy. We need to face the challenge of young people. The first practical case, Minister, could be a youth working group on the development of Latvia's image on the social platform TikTok. We're on Twitter, we're in Facebook, but as long as we're not yet. But there are young people who are interested in it. And closing - on principles, cooperation and courageous work for Latvia and the future. Collective security and a common foreign policy are not only desirable, but the need in these times when the excitement after the collapse of the USSR has begun to vanish... enthusiasm for democracy. We in Latvia know what totalitarianism means, so we must work to strengthen democratic values both at home and in Latvia's foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U25	Thank you to Mrs Voika. (Applause) Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U26	Hello, colleagues! I would ask you to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U27	Members have reservations? There is no objection. Time is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U28	Highly honored Head of the sitting, Excellency, Colleagues! First of all, I express my gratitude to those people of Latvia who, in Latvia's diplomatic and military service, defend the security and interests of our country every day, both here and beyond our borders. On behalf of the political group, I thank them and their families for their endurance and service to the country, as well as all our fellow citizens who, individually working in international organisations - the European Union, NATO, the UN and many others - raise the prestige of our country with their professionalism. Thanks also to all Latvian cultural and sporting people who, with their individual success, have allowed each of us to feel proud about Latvia. Members of our group are particularly grateful to our diplomats for the good cooperation, interest and openness that we have experienced. We too will always be open to the needs, thoughts, and recommendations of fellow citizens serving our country. Foreign policy is calling for directity, and I will be speaking about it. And here it will be - Latvian-US relations and their impact on Latvia's place in the world. Dear colleagues, We all experienced for the first time in the history of Latvia that in the Saeima the chair can be occupied by a cardboard figure. There have been many things in the world's history - even the Caligula horse has been active in the Roman Senate. Today, Ushakov and America have been met by the European Parliament. But the card has never been to Parliament before. More! It is not known that a Caligula horse would have gone on his own to visit the strategic allies of Rome and, imagine, talked about sanctioning other Roman citizens. Can you imagine that? You can't, but it'll be! Because it is an important and natural episode from the strategic partnership between Latvia and the United States, developed by Edgars Rinkēvičs. We all know that Edgars Rinkēvičs, along with other local self-proclaimed speakers of the “right view”, was enthusiastically welcomed by Vice-President Baden on his visit to Riga Light Palace, with a strong rejection of Trump's views. The local nomenclature, managed by the forces, wanted to look globally trendy and attractive. In Latvian against Trump was unprecedented... Crime of Latvian state officials, violation of the established public and official neutrality of the Latvian state vis-à-vis the US internal policy against Latvian politicians and diplomats. It was an unprecedented irresponsibility for Latvia-US relations. Liability, negligence and lightness, for which Latvian citizens have paid and unfortunately will continue to pay even more with their money and, if God does not give, with security. I will explain to you the nature of this diplomatic and political crime. Before these disgusting dozens of Latvian officials, who, however, have now been thoroughly deleted, both democrats and representatives of the Trampa team and Republican party looked to us as true, freedom-loving, independent American friends. They saw a symbol of American idealism and political victory in us. We were also viewed by other friends in the West and in the North, and perhaps by the East’s unfriends. All of them have known - Latvians have been responsible for their words since our restoration of independence. Yes, I think Latvians are pro-Americans, and America responds with prolativism to Latvians, forcing reactionaries in the east to stay apart, importing Latvia into NATO and showing respect for our country. Let us be honest: the liberals of Latvia have caught a mound with their behaviour, arrogance and obvious irresponsibility. How do you think we should feel and be treated now, for example, by any member of the political level of the Trump administration? At best, I think it is neutral. And that's exactly what they do! In its relations with Latvia, Latvia has been implementing a policy that is only in the interests of US national security, not seeing a serious and reliable partner in Latvia and seeing only cardboard figures (Dep. R. Col’s intermediate call.) , ministers and the governments of cardboard here - those who work, only under the leadership of TVter popularity and their small private interests, for which the United States is still carrying the burden of security and prestige. This is a total change in the USA-Latvia relationship paradigm. It has also undermined the self-esteem of our people. I will not ask the foreign ambassadors present how Latvia now looks. Edgars Rinkēvičs has proved to be a minister, during which thousands of Latvian citizens have lost their jobs in the financial sector, billions of euros have gone from Latvia, and thousands more will suffer losses in the transport and logistics sector. Who will respond to the drought and uncertainty caused by the Moneyval process more than a year? What did the Foreign Minister do to help strengthen the Latvian economy in this period? ( The UK Group’s intermediate names.) We all need other relations between Latvia and the US. For our part, they must be redesigned. Mr. Rinkēvičs (and not only he) in his journeys fly in business class, and we pay for it all, but what is the destination of these trips? They should be at least three: strengthening Latvia as a democratic state, defending its people; raising Latvia's prosperity, including economic issues; and, of course, strengthening culture. Of the well-known Latvian entrepreneurs that I addressed, no one could say that the key to his export success is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Mr. Rinkēvičs. If that is the case, then we need to think about whether we need to spend money on airline tickets at all and whether it makes sense for such a policy? Clearly, the previous election campaign of the US President was a cruel and painful political struggle. It is clear that Trump's statements about NATO, the European Union, Russia and Ukraine were not adopted unanimously at that time. When Trump was elected president of the United States, you were terrifyingly aware of the situation in which you might have reached. You were afraid that you had become inadequate in the eyes of the Trump administration. You were afraid that not only Latvia is now waiting for hard times, but your personal career could also be complete, because Washington would be a burden for you. As soon as Washington left you, it would also be possible for all of you here. You began to adapt quickly: President Trampa's statements about NATO and the European Union have suddenly ceased to be heard, the US's position on climate change has not been felt, the US's policy on Iran has not been seen, the changes in the sovereignty of the highlands of Jerusalem and Golan in US decisions have not been noticed, the Trampa and Putin's summits have not been worried, and our people have not been particularly aware of all this. The nation had to deal with its own concerns without knowing if the United States was still with us. This was followed later by the position of the U.S. Treasury on our financial sector's "reducing" issues. It is precisely because of your attitude that Latvia looks like the only lenient of money laundering, although now we all know from the media that there are states and banks in our region (Dep. R. Col’s intermediate call.) , through which there have been truly terrible amounts of dirty money. It is precisely the search for a balance and uncertainty (which is also reflected in this foreign report) that we have been chosen as scapegoats and sanctions against our financial sector. This is the place where we need to speak with a clear voice on matters that are important in the United States and not pretending not to see them, and it must be shown not only by recording on the Twitter, but by concrete, unfluxed positions, by the fact that we are close allies, for example, as Estonia has done by signing a memorandum with the United States on the introduction of 5G. You still do not believe that relations between the US and Latvia are getting weaker, except, and I stress, except for cooperation within NATO. It is enough to avoid making decisions! ( Minister of Defence Pabriks: “Who avoids it? ” ) The lack of a serious and deep high-level political dialogue with the US has led Washington to lose sight of Latvia’s leadership, seeing its helplessness and confusion. A culture for the weakness of these international relations is sanctioning the state port of Latvia from the USA. And again - as in the case of the financial sector - you not only decided to use it in your political interest to honour and respect the citizens of Latvia who work in these companies, but on the contrary! Paradoxically, it seems that you are doing exactly what the Democrats in America are condemning Trump - using another country to attack your political opponent! I am not talking about one politician; I am talking about all the thousands of people who, because of this, can now be unemployed. These people are the same Latvian citizens as you. They are entitled to at least the same support that you promise to Latvian citizens in Great Britain after a brunch... Like Kristīne Misāne and many of us do not know who is asking for state aid; many other transit workers in Kurzeme, Latgale, who hope that a solution will be found. Mr. Rinkēvičs, Latvian society is not so uneducated that it does not understand that the Latvian foreign policy formula you are proposing “To do everything you want in Washington, otherwise we will not have NATO Article 5” is a misstatement. Your position is a triumph of foreign policy helplessness, which only leads to regretting other countries but, above all, humiliation in the eyes of our people. But what should we do? First of all, Latvia and the US need a owner on Latvia's side, and this could be the President of Latvia, using the prestige of his office, as the former Presidents of Latvia have also done. Secondly, in order to restore the USA's faith in the Latvian political and public administration institutions, it is necessary that representatives of all political groups in the Saeima be involved in the further development of relations between the USA and Latvia, in order to obtain confirmation in the USA that there is political consensus in Latvia regarding partnership with the US and that Washington is not used for the needs of Latvian internal intrigue and popularity ratings. And thirdly, I would like to call for some of the ideas that have already been made public about further deepening cooperation between the United States and Latvia: to follow US security recommendations regarding implementation of 5G; to restore Latvia's financial sector's reputation in cooperation with the United States and international organisations; to attract the relevant U.S. institutions to strengthen security in the Latvian cyberspace, as well as to implement new technologies in Latvian security and law enforcement institutions. And the last one. Mr. Rinkēvičs, it is impossible to believe in your version that Latvian diplomats have managed to remove Ventspils port from the list of sanctions within a few days! Why, then, did we come to these lists in your time and then chaoticly, without a clear plan, did we experiment with our economy to save the situation? Latvia's foreign policy has reached a dangerous weakness in relations with the United States, and that is something you, Mr Rinkēvičs, can no longer mask with the sanctioning of Russian singers. In my opinion, obsceneness in relations with the US and Washington about this is much more dangerous than the concerts of some singers in Riga. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “Good!” ) Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U29	Thank you, Mr. Valaiņš. The name of Member Linda Ozola. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U30	Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Dear Ministers, Colleagues! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Today does not only correspond exactly to one year of work by our government; today's foreign policy debate is also taking place on the basis of a hundredths (I will say in a plural) because now, this month, we are celebrating the centenary of our War of Independence and Latgale Liberation. This is a time when we remember that we have had to fight for the freedom and unity of our country; there has been an indispensable support of allies, for whom we say a great deal of thanks to our Polish friends and their shoulder, and when we honour those who gave their lives for our Latvia to be. In this year’s foreign policy report, the exact words “values” and “international law” are those that cross the entire report. As regards international law and the protection of this system, one of the international organisations has already been mentioned many times today, in which I have the great honour of being present and participating, namely the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And when it comes to protecting the international legal system, here, of course, an event with the renewal of the voting rights of our neighbour, the Russian Federation, has sounded out loud. We are talking about a country that, literally at the beginning of this year, a few days ago, has decided to strengthen its constitutional attitude towards international norms by making its national law - Russian law - a priority over international law. In fact, de facto, this case has been confirmed for years by the lack of substantial implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. The question might arise: why, in general, does Russia need international organisations if it wants to be isolated from this same international law? And do European countries, by directing their eyes to such action by a Member State, while at the same time restoring its right to vote without reservations, not undermine the foundations of their own order? The question remains open: how to inspire a new breath in international organisations if their existence has not in itself prevented the current turbulence... as we see it. There may also be questions in society - whether we need these organisations at all if they do not use their fundamental values. My answer would be to return to the roots, to rerespecting and revitalising these fundamental values. The rule of law is one of these fundamental values in international organisations. Our President, Egil Levit, recently speaking to the Constitutional Court, spoke of four enemies of the rule of law, calling them "legal nihilism", legal formalism, circumvention and abuse of rights. In my opinion, the precise wording is very precise. And these enemies deprive people of their faith and trust not only in local institutions, but also in international organisations. I believe that you should also be prepared to get into an uncomfortable situation, get out of the comfort zone, sacrifice something or give up certain comforts. These could also be additional expenditure or expenditure, if required by the defence of our fundamental values. Our Parliamentaries have clearly actively defended this position in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, explaining these aspects to the other Member States and our partners. We hope that the Saeima and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to cooperate pro-actively in the implementation of this entry into force. And not only in this international organisation. Today we have heard about the fact that foreign policy is the continuation of national internal policies. This year, working in the Foreign Affairs Commission and looking at our Latvia from outside as part of a globalised and connected world, where we are interacting with so many and different countries and cultures (they are bigger and smaller; stronger and weaker; more aggressive and more friendly)... in this situation, I would also like to go in the opposite direction. Thus, active foreign policy helps us to understand what the absolute priorities of our country are, internally, in order to compete successfully on the global stage, and then the results of foreign policy will improve and will be better. Here I would highlight education (which is state-of-the-art, from pre-school to higher education), I would highlight modern economy and security. I really call on every government minister to look at the sector in a global context, because then it is much easier to understand what internal political priorities are for the sector in question. We cannot ignore what has happened... Another fact that has happened is that our neighbour, Russia, has set the preservation of historical memory as one of the priorities of its work in the near future. If we only hear these three words, I think we would agree that this is very important. Each country would agree. But as it turns out, everyone who agrees can put something into it. Like a wedding, which is a very emotional moment, where people often have tears in their eyes, but it turns out that the reason why they weep and are moved has their own, whether they be a bride and a bride or a parent whose children leave their family. In this case, it also turns out that the preservation of historical memory can be a rewrite of historical facts. This is unacceptable to us and I am very pleased that the Saeima has confirmed it last week's announcement. These conditions are not new, but forms of expression are increasingly new. And that brings us back to the ground and gives us a very painful sense of reality. Our response to such alternative facts must be modern and national education, despite any external or domestic opposition. It is also a preventive measure in relation to such destructive activities of a neighbouring country. A little bit of a touch on the economy - in the report... quoting... It states: "The European Union must promote the digitisation of the economy, the development and use of artificial intelligence technologies, the deployment of the latest generation of digital infrastructure (5G) and the strengthening of the digital skills of society." In turn, we expect that these priorities, which are important to the European Union, will be reflected in the National Development Plan as well and then implemented in Latvia. Such a transition to the digitalisation of the economy must plan resources, thinking about the long-term development of our entire country and not just meeting short-term needs. This also includes fair competition throughout. We ask this from our government, from every minister in his area of competence. As regards financial crimes, the report states: “Latvia is interested in the effectiveness of the reform process: otherwise, the consequences can be far reaching with a serious impact on the business environment...”. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the consequences are not "may" but unfortunately already have a serious impact on the business environment! Of course, our attitude should be intolerant to financial crime, but our attitude should also be demanding towards the authorities responsible, whose task is to control it, prevent it and correct it. And it is no longer just about amending laws and regulations that we have done in honour, but about something tangible: the ability of our responsible public authorities to control illegal financial flows and to punish offenders. That's what we should do, so that we don't have to do this work for someone else in our place. And our role as politicians is to create the conditions for law enforcement authorities to work effectively in the public interest, and it is our responsibility to elect senior officials. The new Conservative Group agrees that international cooperation should be promoted and that such international crimes should be combated, and we hope that colleagues also support our responsible authorities in ensuring that they have all the preconditions for a good performance of their work. And, as we can see, it will also affect our foreign policy if we do our job well. It is as if a matter of course, but I will mention that Latvia needs to have a fair defence of its citizens, and it is important to understand this throughout the public administration, regardless of which competent authority each individual case should be. The issue is on the parliamentary agenda, and perhaps it is also good that we clearly formulate this political setting - we want to defend our citizens abroad and all those who are protected by Latvia by creating a safe space for them from the point of view of value and rights. I'm asking you again...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U31	Do you want to combine time? Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Please join me!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U32	And by the end. I would like to express on behalf of our group... to welcome the achievements of our people working in international organisations. The representation of Latvian experts in the United Nations and the European Commission would in future provide us with a very high level. We are really very happy with that. Welcome and keep your thumbs and wish you good luck. In turn, speaking to allies in our region and those across the ocean, and all those with whom we share common values and who are ready to defend them actively, even if something needs to be sacrificed for these values - thank you all for your close cooperation! We in the Latvian Parliament very much appreciate this. On behalf of the new Conservatives, I thank all our diplomats abroad and foreign service workers who represent our country with a respectful and courageous support and who have also supported us in our work in this year. There will be much, less, work in the future, and let us always succeed in doing so with our inspirer! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U33	Thank you to Mrs. Ozola. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U34	Dear colleagues, I ask for the speaking time to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U35	Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Let's get it together.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U36	Dear colleagues, Your Excellency, ambassadors! The Minister is trying to position himself as politicians who in principle... and also around the world are fighting for "Western values". Is that something bad? But it's important to understand one difference here. You can live up to “values, ” setting an example and perhaps also an inspiration for others. But instead, the Foreign Minister chose the fight for "Western values" - more precisely, the fight against countries which, in the Minister's opinion, do not have "Western values". I quote from the report: ‘... Latvia... highly appreciates existing relations in which the participating countries... share Western values and norms...’. Simplified Translation... Latvian foreign policy settings can be translated as follows: common “Western values” are, then relations are highly appreciated and created. No, I don't. It is absolutely clear that such an approach basically excludes good and constructive relations with many neighbours in the East and not only. First of all, of course, with Russia and China. In the eyes of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is a sacred crusade in the world against all those who, in the Minister's opinion, either do not respect the 'Western values' or do not have enough loyalty to transatlantic relations. Incidentally, the Foreign Minister sees himself as one of the main flags of this holy war. Whether it really is about values - this, in my opinion, is highly questionable. But for the time being, let us assume that it really is about values. Then we need to understand the consequences of this holy war. This means that relations, including economic ones, are mainly based on "Western value" countries. This means dismantling bridges and building walls with countries which, in the Minister's view, do not meet the high standards of "Western values". The Foreign Minister proposes to build a large wall of Latvia - a wall between countries and between nations. This wall is being built in a country where almost every fifth... 22.9 percent of Latvia's population, i.e. 434 thousand inhabitants, is at risk of poverty. And the policy pursued by the Foreign Minister can only lead Latvia to remain one of the poorest European countries forever, from which most of its most capable and wisest citizens will leave. Mr. Rinkēvičs! ‘ The 1500 workers dismissed by the Latvian Railway Agency are also to a large extent your responsibility! This is precisely the result of your foreign policy! This fight, colleagues, is a great reminder of the “Western values” in other countries of the former USSR's fight for Communism around the world. Store shelves are empty themselves, but let us help remote fighters for communism! High honourable Members! Latvian foreign policy... lives away from what is happening in our country. It behaves as if all the economic and social problems in our country had been resolved for a long time. And there is often the impression that our Foreign Minister represents another country. Do you remember that, at the time of adoption of the budget, we were all shocked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' plans to open a new embassy in Australia? Australia?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, - at the moment when the government was unable to comply with the law on medical remuneration. I would like to read to you, colleagues, the reasons why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs to open a new embassy in Indonesia. I quote: “The region of South East Asia is strategically important. R. Col’s intermediate call.) - it covers the rapidly growing economies in which China, the United States, is fighting for influence." Minister, you... Which country do you live in? Any country fighting for influence on the same level with China and the US? A few words about our relationship with Europe and the US. And it's really... It's hard to talk about a lot of it... According to the foreign policy report, our policy is quite simple there. In the country of the European Union... Our foreign policy message is: "We agree with everything, just give financial benefits, that is, EU funds and direct payments." The message in the United States is almost the same, just without financial assistance. Mr. Rinkēvičs! I would like to ask you a question. Your loyalty to transatlantic relations is well known. In your report, you write (I quote): "In 2019, a dynamic political dialogue continued with the US administration." So why didn't you inform the Ventspils port about sanctions within the framework of this dynamic dialogue? Why didn't you not have the opportunity to do your homework and implement the necessary legislative changes without sanctions? Dear colleagues, Excellency - Ambassadors! Finally about Russia. Because almost every Latvian citizen knows well that everything in our country is about Russia, about Putin and about “Russians are coming”. For all these 30 years, this is an absolutely central theme - Russia. Excellency - Ambassadors! I know that many in your countries ask themselves about this phenomenon in Latvia: why does it hate its great eastern neighbour so much? Because there is no rational explanation for this. Latvia loses most of all sanctions, from built walls and fences, from conflict between West and East. If war begins, it will certainly happen in the territory of Latvia, guaranteeing its complete destruction. Then why is Latvia's foreign policy so much interested in the Eastern-West conflict? The response of the politicians of the coalition of Latvia would probably be... Now I've heard a lot of... I will conclude: all this is for values, that we have not forgotten the occupation, that we have not received any apology and compensation for it. And Russia at all is an empire of evil, but it is known to everyone! ( Interface: “In particular, Ukraine! ”) ) But the real reason, honored ambassadors, is quite different. See, Latvia's second republic is built on the exclusion of non-Latvians from the political process. From granting citizenship in the early 1990s to red lines against parties voted by Russian-speaking Latvian citizens. All of this should have provided the basis for Europe's eyes, starting with the fight against the consequences of occupation, the part of its population, and ending with the sacred fight against Russia and its self-evident fifth column - the same Russian-speaking people of Latvia, all of whom have automatically become “the agents of the Kremlin”. The exclusion of a Russian-speaking voter is also the basis of the Unity of Political Power of the Party of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. For what would be the party's Unity Probability to be in government if there were no red lines? It's a rhetorical question, isn't it? But with the red lines, the place of unity in the government is guaranteed. And the same applies to Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs. There is a sacred war against Russia, there are red lines against the Russian-speaking people of Latvia, there is a guaranteed place in the Latvian Government, there is a guaranteed position for the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Unity. And if there is a Minister for Foreign Affairs of Unity, then there is also a sacred war against Russia. Because only this is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Unity. No value, only power and positions. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) And all those present know it very well, but they will never tell you. Because that is so bad - it is simply isolation of another ethnic group. That's bad! And it continues to tell us about Russia, Putin, “Russians come” that the irreversibility of Latvia’s independence is under threat, and so on. This threat from Russia is so great that NATO even reduces (!) In the Baltic States, the number of patrollers per third - from 12 to eight. So great is this Russian military threat! Minister! I would like to take the opportunity here to ask you a question. Everyone knows how much you love Russian singers. ( The box “Love! ”) ) Tell me, what did the singer Gregory Leeps do about you denying him entry to our country? What has he threatened the irreversibility of Latvia's independence? Was that one of his songs? Which one? ‘ Natals’? ‘ ( Dep. I. Zariņš’ intermediate call.) or “Roomk vodki na staļe”? Which one? With which song did he do it? Dear colleagues, What should be Latvia's foreign policy? The aim of Latvian policy should be to ensure a rapid increase in the well-being of Latvian citizens! We should first learn to live up to our own values, thus setting an example for others rather than teaching others to live. Small countries have one huge advantage, colleagues. They can learn much more quickly from others. Someone said: “If you’re not the biggest fish in the sea, you have to swim faster.” Small countries can take over the best practices, the best solutions from other countries much faster, and it is not so important whether they are in the west or in the east. You can and should learn from everyone. We could become a place where cultures of different countries meet, where their interaction takes place, and where this interaction results in world-class technological, economic, social and cultural achievements. But, of course, this is only possible if we are open and tolerant. Only those who do not live in fear, hatred, and anger are open and tolerant. Fear, hatred, and anger in themselves... If we, fellow Members, have to fight something, then only with fear, hatred and anger. I also wish this to our foreign policy. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U37	Thank you, Mr Dombrovskis. Name to Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U38	I would like to unite the speaking times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U39	Do Members have reservations about bringing together the time of the debate? There is no objection. Time is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U40	Highly honored Presidium! Mr. Foreign Minister! Excellency! Colleagues! The Latvia in which we live today has been developing its foreign policy for 29 years. As Members who work daily with this foreign policy, we can talk about some problems and progress over this period. But in my opinion, Latvia's ability to react strategically, pragmatically and forward-lookingly to foreign policy events in recent years is a strong testimony to one thing: we know what we are doing, we have clear goals, we know how to achieve them, and the results are visible. As stated in this year's Foreign Minister's report, we have done our utmost to strengthen our security, expand international cooperation opportunities and, most importantly, have given our citizens a wide range of opportunities to use Latvia's foreign policy space to promote their personal development and growth. We cannot alone solve global foreign policy problems such as climate change, brux, the future of the European Union, the Russian-Ukrainian war, conflicts in the Middle East or fires in Australia. We will also not be able to meet the security challenges of globalisation, the development of new technologies and the new platforms for information circulation by ourselves. But we can and have done our utmost to effectively protect our citizens from the many possible consequences of these problems. And let us not forget that our main aim of foreign policy is to serve the interests of our citizens. Our diplomats not only defend the country as such, they act as an intermediary between the great policies of the world and the security and well-being of each of our citizens. It is in this sense that Latvia's foreign policy has been successful, as it directly serves the population. Working together with our allies and partners in NATO, North America, the European Union and the Baltic Sea region, we have successfully defended our defence and economic interests. And, contrary to what we have heard a little before, our relationship with the US has never been better than it is today. The achievements of our foreign policy stem from our specific abilities. For example, our NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence is the world leader in the fight against disinformation and misuse of IT. In the European Union, we continue to draw attention to Central Asia, the Eastern Partnership and the Russian war against Ukraine, which some opposition Members forgot to mention. Our government, with the support of the Saeima and the efforts of our diplomats in Washington, quickly and effectively solved the situation in order to remove the Freeport of Ventspils and its administration from the US sanctions list. Latvian politicians, officials and diplomats hold influential positions in the European Commission in Brussels. We have already heard about this today. Valdis Dombrovskis is one of the three Vice-Presidents of the European Commission. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) And what would have imagined that, although only 16 years have passed since we joined the European Union, the Secretary-General of the European Commission, the High Officer of the Commission, will be Latvian Ilze Juhansone? It's not just Ilze's achievement; it's Latvia's achievement. Our foreign policy does not only strengthen our country. It transforms our infrastructure. More than 22 NATO countries have sent their troops to our region to protect our borders and strengthen our security. And we have achieved that the European Union will cover 80 percent of Rail Baltica's expenditure. And with this we will bring historic changes to the economic, strategic and cultural dynamics of our region. In the last year, our President, the government and the Saeima have worked as a joint foreign policy team, earning Latvia's trust from our allies in NATO and the European Union. Why is this important? Because one of the main instruments of foreign policy is good communication - you know when and what to say so that the leaders of other countries, organisations not only understand, but also agree and support. In the last year the Prime Minister of Latvia Krišjānis Kariņš has been invited to speak not only on behalf of Latvia, but also on behalf of the European Union as a whole to CNN, BBC, Bloomberg and other news programmes. This is not just an achievement to be proud of, it is a challenge that we must use and develop for the benefit of the country. Nothing special has become something special. Not only do we know what to say, but we know how to say it to listen to us. Members of the Saeima have also exercised their powers to promote the interests of Latvia's foreign policy. Our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has earned special recognition. The Latvian Parliamentaries took a leading role in the response to the ESA's wrong decision to restore the mandate of the Russian delegation in this organisation. Thank you for this effective action. We hope that your active action will continue this year, because Latvia's voice must be heard in this assembly. And thank you also to our delegation to the Baltic Assembly, especially Janis Vucanas, for their active activities over the last year. I have been very pleased at all to see that the position and opposition work in a collegial and constructive manner in all inter-parliamentary delegations and cooperation groups. Thank you for that. If we are talking about Latvia's actions in the world, we are talking about the Diaspora as well. This is a particularly important resource for our foreign policy. Of course, one of the main objectives of our policy in the Diaspora is to help our citizens return. But it is equally important for Latvia to maintain links with those citizens who choose to work and live outside Latvia. If we help them maintain their Latvian identity and language, promote their political participation and achieve the transfer of their experience to Latvia, Latvia can only gain from it. Of course, any successful action can be complemented and corrected where there are shortcomings or errors. We have already heard in this debate, and perhaps we will hear further recommendations from our Foreign Minister, perhaps also criticisms, but I hope that every criticism will be constructive. But, after all, in view of the foreign policy challenges that we face in 2020, I have no doubt that today Latvian diplomats, Heads of State and Saeima are able to cope with them. I have been involved in Latvia's foreign policy for more than 30 years, and we have never been as stable, consistent and strong as today. We have a deep experience and a thoughtful approach to any foreign policy issue. Rainis said that “there will be things that will change. ” If we are talking about internal policies, including territorial reform, health and education, there is a certain truth. But in foreign policy, I would use a different word: “the one who will be involved will exist”. The fact that the rest of the world is already involved in our politics, economy and social life is inevitable. To ensure that the effects of globalisation are beneficial for our country and our citizens, we need to be proactive. We need to get involved where it is beneficial, reasonable and useful. In the last 29 years, Latvia's foreign policy has been strategically engaging. Our aim is to base our values on the Constitution. This course must continue. Our membership of NATO, the European Union, the UN, the OECD and other international organisations is necessary to ensure our security, prosperity, stability and economic growth. But finally, I will discover that I had in principle three goals in this speech. The first is to remind you and the people of Latvia that what we achieved 30 years ago - restoring the independence of Latvia - continues to be justified. The second is to emphasise that a successful foreign policy is only possible if the President, the Government and the Saeima are united in their objectives and words and serve the public interest. And the third. Maybe that's the most important thing. I would like to convince our next generation that the foundation that they will possess from us is really strong and stable. Yes, I really came today to praise our foreign policy. I think we all deserve it. Thank you all for your cooperation. Let us continue in the same spirit. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U41	Thank you, Mr. Kalnins. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs have any repetition to break? None. Then the name of Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U42	Dear Saeima! Excellency! In ten years the number of Latvians has decreased from 2 million 160 thousand to 1 million 920 thousand (by 200 thousand less or 11 percent less). In the EU, the population has increased over 10 years (based on an increase in immigration and life expectancy) from 502 million to 513 million (or 11 million or 2 percent). The world, for its part, has grown from 6.8 billion to 7.7 billion (or 900 million more) over 10 years. These are two European Unions who have been born in the world over the last 10 years. In 20 years, the world’s population has grown by 1.7 billion (or 1,700 million). This rapid demographic change affects the world, and we need to understand that if none of the 0.1 percent of the world's population were to decide to move to Latvia or to the Baltic States within the next 10 years, it would be about 8 million people who would enter, and at that time Latvia would simply cease to exist, Latvia would stop being Latvia. If Latvia is not able to eliminate negative demographic trends - insufficient birth rate, high mortality and very high emigration - then within a few centuries Latvia will cease to exist. We must organise our activities in foreign policy and internal policy in order to ensure the existence and development of the Latvian people through centuries, as well as to preserve our independence and freedom. In order to achieve this goal with the resources we have, we need to be smarter. We cannot keep a blind and passive eye on the policies of major powers, the interests of large corporations or simply modern world trends. We need to think with our head and act accordingly. For many Latvians it seems a sympathetic Polish policy, an economic migration foreign policy. And this is not only because we have a common history or because our people would be sympathized with certain Polish politicians, but it is also because the Poles are pursuing an independent policy based on long-term development that ensures the interests of the Polish people. And any attempt to intervene in Poland's internal affairs is perceived in Latvia as an attack on the rights of Polish citizens to pursue their own policy. The realisation of an independent policy, which does not run counter to the interests of other countries and peoples, must not be repressed. Latvia, like Estonia and Lithuania, wants to implement such a policy. It is a matter of life or death for our peoples in the long term - to be or not Latvians, Lithuanians, Estonians. So dramatic, if we're looking within a 100-200-year-old framework. Will the European Union really benefit if, as a result of existing policies, the Baltic Sea will no longer have this people? The realisation of an independent policy cannot be a mere privilege for the powers of the powers. The national association does not see the possibility of implementing a large-scale immigration policy - whether it concerns asylum seekers from different parts of the world, economic migrants or false students who enter Latvia. I would remind you that over the last 20 years, 1.7 billion young people in the world have come. And these people have come to countries where the standard of living is much, much worse than in the European Union and than in Latvia. But if we allow it, it would lead to assimilation and destruction of the Latvian people. Any attempt to tackle Europe's demographic challenges through immigration will create even deeper problems. Physical and social security, like local cultures, will be compromised. A comprehensive policy of support for families at European level, strong border protection and, of course, development cooperation with neighbouring countries in the world are needed. In recent years, we have been faced with issues that we are also taking with us, but which are not at all priority issues for Latvia. I really believe that Latvia can serve as a model for many countries in the area of climate change and how we take care of nature, how we take care of the living environment. We are a model for most of the world. At the same time, we cannot be proud of having shiny demographic indicators. But the question is, will we draw close to these modern world trends and address, for example, the problem of overpopulation in certain regions of the world or the huge waste problem in Asia, or will we really address the problems that are important to us? More than the European Union's grants, we need to avoid distorting competition, so that there is no excessive bureaucratic burden or special support conditions for large international corporations. We need strong national enterprises to develop the national capital that develops the entire Latvian economy here on the ground. For our science to flourish, not for our wisest minds to be taken abroad. Of course, there are many challenges in terms of security, and they can change in the world every day. If one day the world is worried about fires in Australia, China is at the heart of today, and we wish that China succeeds in overcoming this epidemic of virus, which has already led the first city to be completely closed and others to follow. From the point of view of physical security, it is, of course, important for us to have close military cooperation and we are grateful to our allies within NATO - the United States, Canada, Britain, Poland and many other countries who are taking care of our military security on a daily basis, so that there is no need for Ukraine in Latvia, the Baltic States. It is in Latvia's interest to establish close cooperation with the Baltic and Black Sea countries, including Ukraine. I sincerely hope that in the coming years, in the near future, Ukraine will become a fully-fledged NATO state. This country deserves it, because it is Ukraine that currently holds the aggressor in Europe on the ground. At the sitting room of the Saeima, we have two flags. But next to the Latvian flag, I think one more flag deserves this place, and that is the NATO flag. It is this military alliance that guarantees us independence and existence, provides physical security and military security. Even from a safety point of view, it is important for us to make many different choices at the moment, rather than just allowing the flow... also in the field of modern technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U43	Thank you to Mr Dombrava. (Applause) We have 10 minutes left. Are you going to be included? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaitistov: “Yes!” ) The name to the Member Atem Zakaitistov. ( Internouncing call.) Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U44	Hello, chair of the sitting! Hello, Minister! Hello, colleagues, it's really a pleasure to talk to you! Excellency! Negotiations and discussions on foreign policy are important in many areas. One area is that a signal is being sent with these negotiations. We signal to the wider public as well as to our partners how to anticipate and evaluate our foreign policy in the coming years. But also in our comments on foreign policy, we, as commentators, send signals to the public about how to assess us in the future. And here I speak on behalf of our group. Consequently, I would like to define the set of values that make the KPV LV group a unique group. And then through this set of values we can see... It will be the prize through which we, as a group, will also look at our external relations. A year has passed for the government. The year has also passed for our group. It has not been a simple year. As a result of our internal negotiations and internal discussions, we have come to a situation where 10 Members continue to work in our group. We have also changed our course in a certain way in a group. We entered the Saeima as radical Members. The current coalition has shown that change can only be achieved through joint work. As a result, we have become much more pragmatic, but the core of the group has remained on fixed values and principles. We are, we have been and will be fiscally conservative. We are, we have been and will be central, pragmatic and reform-oriented. Whether its reforms are initiated by our own partners or by our partners. And the three values that we feel most important are austerity, security and clarity about the future. And it is through the prism of this value that I would also like to look at the foreign policy report. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being given her wishes. And I'll start with one wish. I will tell you a little, but I think I will be telling you a misunderstanding, which, in the end, I hope will also be understood as a journey bag for the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the end of the year, I arrived at a border service station. And when I filled the fuel and went in to the cashier, I was faced with a girl who smiled nicely and said, “Welcome!” I'm completely confused. I think that every service station employee is now becoming a Latvian ambassador. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš’ intermediate call.) And I asked her: “Sorry, please... Thank you for welcoming me so nicely,” thought it’s English, “but say, why do you do it in English?” She looked at me and said: “I speak Latvian. We're wearing a bank card through a bank terminal!’ (Laughter) At that point, I realized that I was a kind of add-on to a bank card. But I am looking now at the Foreign Minister, and I would like him to become such a motto for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Every time you meet strangers, you say “Welcome” in English, please keep in mind their second section: “To wear a bank card through the bank terminal!” Because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs to be so purposeful that every time we meet with foreigners in our country's treasury, we need to put some money into our business treasury. When it comes to values, I will start with value three. And its third value is clarity about the future. The Foreign Minister's report makes it very clear what 19th-century philosophers have developed into a concept called "Zeitgeist". The world's intellectual will is now that climate change policy will dominate and dominate choices in Europe and the world. On behalf of the Group of the SPV LV, I argued that we would not oppose these trends. I think that every group will have to figure out whether they are involved in a climate change discourse or against it. What does that mean for us like Latvia? As Latvia, we need to focus every project on how it affects the climate. The Ministry of Economics has begun to play an active role in reorganising energy policy in order to restructure the economy, and we will certainly support it in the future. The second value, which is important to us, is security. Security can be seen through synonyms. Security can be like security, security can be like home, and security can be like an economy or trade. The report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs (we have seen with thanks) discusses all these things beautifully. In terms of defence, I think we, as the Saeima, have to take responsibility for those guys and men we send to international missions. But we must also thank our allies, especially the Canadian contingent, who have sent their sons and daughters to Latvia. If we are thinking about security as a home, our policy in the Diaspora must be directed so that people, wherever they are in Europe or around the world, feel that they are welcome here, and we have seen it at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If we think about the economy... I spoke with the Minister of Economics prior to this speech, and he asked with thanks to him to mention the employees, LIAA employees and embassy employees who, in his view, are doing everything possible to promote investment and export development in Latvia. Moving to the third value we have is austerity. When the Prime Minister addressed us, he said that he had read twice the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and had found absolutely nothing for whom he could... could be improved. I looked through the prism of austerity, and one thing I didn't see there I didn't see any figures. The only figure that appeared there was that our consular revenues were five million. Perhaps it's good, maybe it's not so good. But in any case, I can promise the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that, as part of the review of the expenditure of the Ministry of Finance, we will certainly look at your report through the prism of figures. And I hope that, within the framework of our cooperation, action can only be improved. At the end of my speech, I would like to focus on the centenary of the foreign service. Zigfried Anna Meierovics has been mentioned several times. Tomorrow I go to Durban to meet the voters. I've been to Durban before. There is the Durban Museum, located in the home of Zigfried Anna Meierovica. Thinking about how this great national man could and should perhaps be remembered - a street named after him in Durban, I think it would be a respectable transfer to this great man. I also wish this to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U45	Thank you to Mr Zakatistova. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for a break, but there is a small technical problem, and we will make our registration after a break. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Milestones.) Name for the announcement to Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U46	Hello, colleagues! After 10 minutes, the members of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs are welcome to our committee's premises. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U47	Dear colleagues, Let's keep sitting. We are continuing the debate. During the debate, Ms Golubeva, Member, spoke. ( Subtitle: “Registration will be or will not be? ”) ) No, no, no, no, no, no. It's nice to see you in that number. ( Laughs.) Substitution: ‘No?’ No, it won't. Please name Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U48	Hello, colleagues! This will not be a communication of the results of the registration because there was no registration. (Applause) Substitution: ‘A when will it be?’ ) At this part of the meeting there will be a registration. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “Do not talk to the grass!” ) I would like to ask colleagues to think about some of the figures that we do not pay attention to on a daily basis. Latvian gross domestic product per capita is five times higher than for Ukraine and 20 times higher for Tajikistan. What does this mean today? That is why we, as a developed country, are providing assistance to these and other countries in our development cooperation policy. I would like to remind you that, as stated on the Foreign Ministry's page, development cooperation aims at providing assistance to poor and less developed countries, promoting the long-term social and economic development of these countries and their societies, reducing poverty and ensuring peace and security in the world. And now the question is, are we doing it enough? I highly appreciate the performance of the existing foreign minister and minister, maintaining this issue on the Latvian political agenda also in the post-crisis years. Because by supporting the Eastern Partnership countries and thus good governance in them, supporting civil society and gender equality in Central Asia and other countries, we are enhancing global security and also promoting sustainable development. But Latvia's official development aid, if expressed as a percentage of its gross national product, has remained stable behind Romania in recent years, while Estonian official development aid, if we count it as a percentage of its gross national product, has almost reached the Portuguese level. What is Portugal? It is a country that, a couple of generations ago, was almost an empire of the world with territories in many parts of the world and with its own interests around the world. And what is Estonia? It is a country with a small population (less than us) with high ambitions to influence the world's development agenda. Is development cooperation just a question of values? No, not really. It is also an opportunity for the Latvian private sector and non-governmental organisations to access the global economic sector, which in 2018 amounted to about $143 billion. I would like to invite the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to triple Latvia's development cooperation budget already in 2021. It is now under half a million euros. We are as big as our consistent determination to be among those who determine the global development agenda. Therefore, I would ask not only to increase next year, but also to continue to increase the development cooperation budget of Latvia every year. Even if we cannot compete on the scale of funding, of course with large western countries with a long experience in this area, we can compete with ideas and innovations. Participation of our companies and non-governmental organisations in international projects (it depends to a large extent on public funding in this sector) will help us to develop this segment of the economy also in Latvia and, of course, to become one of the leaders of the world's development agenda. But to do this, we must continue to gradually increase our development cooperation... support. Determinedness is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U49	Thank you to Mrs Golubeva. Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U50	Dear President of the Saeima. Sir, Colleagues! The annual report by the Foreign Minister on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the debate by the European Union and Members on the report is an excellent tradition, not only because it is a beautiful way to mark the date of the international (de iure) recognition of our country, but also because it allows us all to look back on what has been done and to set new goals and priorities. It is likely that when reading this report, everyone will pay particular attention to topics of particular interest. Last year, during the debate on the 2018 report, I pointed to... the absence of issues related to climate change between Latvia's priorities. This year, I was particularly pleased to read about our priorities for climate neutral policies and the green economy, the long-term climate strategy of the UN and the adverse effects of climate change in the Arctic. This is a positive development for our thinking and objectives, and I believe that we all need to work to achieve these priorities. As last year, I would like to note this year's commitment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to defend Latvia's position on the question of Nord Stream 2. This is a very difficult situation, but vitally important for our country, region and Europe's strategic independence. As I said, each report reads about issues and areas of particular interest, but the Foreign Minister has to work on them all. This is a complicated work, and thank you, Minister, for your competence and performance. I very much welcome your work, but may I also express some criticism. I agree with your priorities in security, in our closer integration into the European Union and in strengthening transatlantic relations, but I would like to see human rights as a separate and clearly defined priority for our country. The rights and interests of our citizens abroad, not only in the context of bruxism, but in general. The report states that "at a time when the universality of human rights is questioned in many places and the area of civil society is shrinking, Latvia is actively in favour of respect for human rights" - I myself... and I am convinced that many others too would like to learn more about this important activity of our country and how it is manifested. Yesterday, the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs and the Legal Commission held a joint session dedicated to the question of Ms Kristīne. I understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing everything possible in this situation and that responsibility for it lies with other institutions, but at such moments it is particularly important to understand that the voices of Latvian diplomats were activated and heard. The report provides information on the progress made by our consular service, but I would be happy to see information on the cases in which the consular service provided support and defended the interests and rights of our compatriots. It is of course important to keep in touch with our Diaspora as well, but I believe that it is equally important for all of us to understand how and how well our country is able to help people and promote the defence of human rights. Yes, it is possible to find this information elsewhere, but I think it would be important to see it precisely in the context of the foreign policy report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U51	Thank you to Mrs Rukšāne-Schipčinskas. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U52	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Minister! Today I have asked for the floor in this Saeima now in the traditional foreign debate, no matter how the Head of the Latvian delegation in the Baltic Assembly gives his views on the close foreign policy of Latvia, if this can be said, meaning Latvia's foreign policy activities first in the Baltic area, that is, Latvia's cooperation with Lithuania and Estonia, but not only. I would also like to touch on cooperation in NB8, three Baltic countries in cooperation with five Nordic countries, as well as cooperation in other formats. These forms of cooperation are also described in a concentrated manner in the annual report of the Foreign Minister discussed today on the work done and planned activities in the foreign policy of the country; it is true that they are described mainly in the area of security strengthening, as well as in the areas of implementation of the joint projects of energy and transport infrastructure which are closely related to the development of the economy. However, significant results of cooperation in the Baltic region last year have also been achieved in the fields of education, culture, health care and other areas. I'll talk about that, too. As mentioned in the Foreign Minister's report, in 2019 Latvia was holding the Presidency of the Baltic Space and, therefore, to a large extent, the country's agenda in several forms of cooperation. In the parliamentary dimension, we have been holding the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly as the interparliamentary cooperation organisation of the three Baltic States, which will be able to mark the 30th anniversary of its creation next year. At government level, Latvia held the Presidency of the Baltic Council of Ministers last year. And at regional level, Latvia concluded its Presidency of the Baltic Sea Council. Of course, all these forms of cooperation can work successfully only in interaction, and I can claim from my experience of having been sufficiently active in this cooperation since 2011 that this is also happening in reality, and so - in interaction - these forms of cooperation are also dealt with in the annual report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, each of these forms of cooperation has its own role and function in the common system and also its own responsibility. What is the role of the Baltic Assembly in this interaction? As set out in the statutes of the Baltic Assembly, the Baltic Assembly can appeal to the Baltic Council of Ministers with suggestions and recommendations, as well as request from the Baltic Council of Ministers a progress report on the implementation of the tasks set out in the resolution approved by the annual session of the Baltic Assembly. And so this cooperation is also really being implemented; at the same time, it means that the activity and vision of Members of Parliament very much depends on how purposeful and sustainable this cooperation will be, not only for the interests of one country and its citizens, but for the common interests of the entire Baltic region. Therefore, I would like to thank my colleagues not only in the Latvian delegation to the Baltic Assembly, but also the other Members, including the Heads of several parliamentary commissions and the Speaker of the Saeima, Mrs Mūrniece, who took an active part in the events organised by the Baltic Assembly last year. Thank you for their contribution to the joint parliamentary vision of development in the Baltic region! In particular, as Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš has already mentioned in his speech today, this contribution to joint work and common foreign policy objectives has been made regardless of whether the relevant Members of the Saeima belong to the ruling coalition or opposition. Now a little more detailed than the work of the Baltic Assembly itself and the progress achieved in 2019. Latvia took over its Presidency of the Baltic Assembly from Lithuania at the beginning of 2019, choosing the saying “We can achieve more by common forces”, thus demonstrating its commitment to cooperate and promote an agreement in the name of the common interests of the Baltic region and expressing its desire to strengthen the dialogue, mutual trust and confidence of the Baltic States, in particular their representatives of parliaments. The Latvian Parliament and the Latvian delegation launched their Presidency of the Baltic Assembly on the basis of three priorities: first - security; second - development of energy, transport and infrastructure interconnections; thirdly - promotion of regional growth and competitiveness. Last year, together with the executives, we, representatives of parliaments, also worked on removing barriers and improving cooperation in areas such as defence and security, education and research, the circular economy, energy and transport, artificial intelligence and health care. On the basis of the above priorities, the Latvian delegation to the Baltic Assembly during its Presidency, in close coordination with the activities of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers, sought to achieve practical, forward-looking and visible results for the citizens of the Baltic region. At the moment we can say that in 2019 Baltic cooperation has achieved worth of mention in several sectors. In addition to the traditionally active cooperation in security and defence, culture, transport and infrastructure, and energy, there is a positive trend towards more cooperation and coordination on economic cooperation, joint military procurement, climate policy, joint investment in renewable energy projects, coordinated measures to represent interests in remote markets, the establishment of a common innovation framework in bilateral and trilateral formats. Although the scale and pace of cooperation in these new directions varies, the enlargement of cooperation is a positive trend. Compared to previous years, the coordination of the Baltic States’ positions on the European Union agenda has become more intensive and more targeted. Joint transport and infrastructure projects are one of the most important areas of cooperation. Rail Baltica project is the largest and most important project in the region, which is located and will be on the agenda of Baltic cooperation and also the Baltic Assembly for several years. While the Rail Baltica project is being implemented in general, there are still many challenges that need to be addressed in order to succeed, including parliamentary supervision. Therefore, also at the end of November 2019... During the annual session of the Baltic Assembly, which was held in the same Chamber, recommendations were adopted regarding project funding, project implementation within the set deadlines, infrastructure management model and strengthening of partnerships with Finland and Poland. Last year, we, the Members of the Baltic Assembly, actively addressed our partners from Poland, the Nordic countries and the Benelux countries, explaining the importance of the Rail Baltica project in the context of Europe's common transport infrastructure and also security systems and inviting them to support the Baltic States in the discussions between the European institutions in order to maintain a sufficient proportion of cohesion funding under the Connecting Europe Facility section of the Connecting Europe Facility for transport. In addition to Rail Baltica, other issues related to transport and infrastructure were included in the agenda of the Baltic Assembly and discussed in the interparliamentary format, such as the introduction of a unified road toll charging system in the Baltic States, the modernisation of the road network, including the installation of intelligent transport management systems, improvement of railway connections between the Baltic States and others. The second important sector of cooperation for the Baltic Assembly in 2019 was energy, with the aim of increasing energy security and promoting the development of an integrated regional energy market. One of the topical issues on the cooperation agenda is the synchronization of the Baltic electricity networks with the continental European network. On 27 May 2019 the agreement on connecting the electricity systems of the Baltic States to the continental European network entered into force, while on 20 June 2019 the Prime Ministers of the Baltic States and Poland signed with the President of the European Commission a political road map on the implementation of the synchronous electricity network of the Baltic States with the continental European network through Poland. The cooperation agenda includes a regional energy market, joint investments for renewable energy projects, imports of energy from third countries, a clean energy package and the sale of green bonds. Unfortunately, with regard to the regional gas market and energy imports from third countries, we have failed to reach a common position in the Baltic States, so, on the basis of the proposals of the committees responsible for the Baltic Assembly, the Baltic Assembly in its resolution of its annual part-session made a number of recommendations concerning a solution on regional transmission tariffs for electricity trade with third countries and regional gas infrastructure. The third sector of cooperation of the Baltic Assembly concerns healthcare. The Baltic Assembly's agenda included the issue of the prevention of the situation related to cooperation in the field of transplanted organ exchange, which, following Estonia's accession to the Scandiatransplant system, suddenly became a new challenge for Latvia and Lithuania. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) The Baltic Assembly drafted a plan of measures, which was adopted in the form of recommendations at the annual session and was submitted to the Baltic Council of Ministers for execution. Can I ask you to add a second time?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U53	Do Members object to the unification of time? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Time is combined. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U54	Thank you. Another area of cooperation concerns joint procurement of medicines. Since the launch of this initiative, the Baltic States have made joint procurements of several vaccines, significantly reducing the purchase prices. The savings for the moment in each of the three Baltic States range from half a million euros to around 800 thousand euros. During this year, together with representatives of the Baltic Council of Ministers, we agreed that cooperation in these areas will be deepened next year by making purchases not only of vaccines, but also of other medicines and medical goods. The third area of cooperation in the health care sector, which was launched during the Latvian Presidency, is linked to the implementation of a single e-health network in the Baltic States, but this initiative is still at the start of the development phase, which has thus turned Estonia into the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly since the beginning of this year. Significantly, our Nordic partners are currently working on a similar problem, which not only opens up opportunities for us to learn from each other and transfer experience, but, naturally, allows us to start looking at such solutions at the wider level of the Baltic and Nordic countries or even the entire Baltic Sea region. Of course, it would not be appropriate not to mention that in 2019 at the end of the long-standing parliamentary pressure and supervision, it was possible to reach an agreement between the Latvian and Lithuanian health ministries and their subordinate services on cooperation in the provision of emergency medical care at the border of both countries - similar to what has been working in the border between Latvia and Estonia for more than 10 years. It should be noted here that the turning point for a successful solution was reached during the time of the government led by Maris Kučinskis, who was personally involved, as Prime Minister, in moving the long-term frozen issue from zero. The fourth course of cooperation of the Baltic Assembly last year was related to cooperation of the Baltic States in education, research and culture. On 1 January 2019 the Baltic Culture Foundation, initiated by the Baltic Assembly, started work and decided on 3 July 2019 on the first allocation of EUR 400 thousand to nine joint projects. The next round of project applications (with a deadline for applications by 20 February) has already been announced. It is particularly pleasant to note that the idea of the Baltic Culture Fund, which was launched very recently by the Baltic Assembly in September 2017, was able to turn the Baltic Council of Ministers into reality within a year. There are, however, some aspects that do not satisfy us as Parliamentists and which we will continue to discuss in this year, 2020, year. We, the representatives of all three Baltic parliaments in the Baltic Assembly, believe that the Baltic Culture Fund should support not only cultural projects to promote our countries abroad and to promote international recognition, but also to strengthen the cohesion and stability of the Baltic States. The Baltic States' cooperation in the field of education should also be mentioned, in the sense that an agreement on automatic recognition of academic diplomas was reached from the previous year. Looking at the extent to which the Baltic Assembly, together with the Baltic Council of Ministers, has managed to achieve the objectives that were set before the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly, I can say that overall, at the end of 2018, the Baltic Assembly had made 70 recommendations to the Baltic Council of Ministers, of which 50 are fully implemented, 10 are in the process of implementation and 10 unfortunately there are recommendations that have been received from the Baltic Council of Ministers that either they have lost their relevance or it is not possible to implement these recommendations in the current period. Finally, I would like to highlight one mission of the Baltic Assembly, which is reflected in its intensive cooperation with several other inter-parliamentary organisations, among which three should be highlighted: the Northern Council, the Benelux Parliament and the Guam Parliamentary Assembly. GUAM - Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Moldova. If the first two of these organisations had been excellent teachers of parliamentary democracy for Latvia and the other Baltic States at the time, then the role of this teacher has fallen to the Baltic Assembly with regard to the third - the Parliamentary Assembly of the GUAM, and therefore it is also responsible together with the other bodies involved for the successful progress of the current highly complex Eastern Partnership as a political process, entering the second decade of this process. Agreements on priority areas of cooperation have been concluded with these organisations and are being updated on a regular basis, as is the case with... between the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers. Finally, I would like to thank all representatives of the ministries, especially the Foreign Minister, for the coordinated action we have had last year in implementing the Baltic Assembly Presidency in the Baltic area in cooperation with the Baltic Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U55	Thank you, Mr. Wucaan. (Applause) Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U56	High Minister for Foreign Affairs! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, When I get to know the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I can say with confidence that the foreign service at the time of the centenary of Latvia allows us, Members, to be increasingly proud of the achievements of our foreign service in defending the interests of Latvian and Latvian citizens. Today, however, I would like to talk to you and continue to talk about what Mr Vucanas has begun to do about our work in parliamentary diplomacy, especially in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Saeima... The Saeima... represented... the work of the parliamentary assemblies. Political work, as well as parliamentary diplomacy, has become more intensive last year and has increasingly strengthened their effective cooperation with the foreign service, which has helped us, as Members, to express Latvia's important position and to defend our allies' interests in the Council of Europe. I say this as the head of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The President of the Constitutional Meeting, the first President of Latvia and also professor of international law at the University of Latvia Jānis Čakste gave wise words in lectures to their students, which I believe has been put into the swing for our entire diplomatic service: “The ability to be hypocritical is a privilege for the large states, the small states must be honest.” And this motif, which is put in the cradle, obliges us to always hold a straight spine, to stand up for values, not to bow to any interests, and really always to be honest. I am represented by the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, together with my colleagues, the deputy head of the delegation, Artus village, members of the delegation, Marija Golubeva, Linda Ozola, Boris Cilevič, Dana Reizniecie-Ozola... Indeed, the last year was particularly important, making Latvia's name heard in the Council of Europe and its Parliamentary Assembly, defending precisely the fundamental value of the organisation at a time when, as if it had already been a full-time time, it celebrated its 70th anniversary. It should be recalled that, as a result, the Council of Europe is the oldest political organisation in Europe and currently covers almost the whole of the European continent, bringing together 47 European countries. The original aim is to create a common democratic and legal space, ensuring respect and protection of fundamental values, human rights, democracy, the rule of law and the rule of law. And that is what is also most in line with the cornerstones of our efforts for independence (Latvia, the Baltic States) - ensuring the rule of law and human rights. The ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was one of the most important foreign policy objectives of the country that regained its independence. The desire to return to the European Union of Democratic States has already been confirmed by our declaration of 4 May... A short moment after independence has been declared... The declaration of independence, in which the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia committed to direct its legislative work on the basis of the documents adopted by the Council of Europe and the European Parliament in the field of human rights. And now, almost 25 years later (as Latvia became a full member of the Council of Europe on 10 February 1995), our country's ability to integrate into Europe, as well as to ensure a fully functioning democracy, the rule of law and a competitive market economy are beyond doubt. However, the Council of Europe itself is experiencing a crisis of its fundamental values. Those values have been lost - and I can really say they have been lost! - which 25 years ago served as a benchmark for Latvia's full participation in this organization. Latvia's path to integration in Europe has not been easy. Over these years, we have had to prove our European identity, our compliance with these values. We had to learn not only to take part but also to take responsibility and to show solidarity. And that's why it's Latvia's duty today - to be accountable not to lose these values, to preserve these values, to maintain these values. On the basis of the values of the Council of Europe, the first gaps appeared with the late response to the occupation of Georgian territories. Then the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was taken over by so-called caviar diplomacy and its scandal. Finally, on 26 June 2019, the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to restore the voting rights of Russia, which was suspended in response to the annexation of the Crimean peninsula belonging to Ukraine in 2014, allowed the delegation of the Russian Federation to resume work without restrictions at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Moreover, despite the renewal of the right to vote, Russia continues to ignore its binding EPPA resolutions. And the situation with regard to human rights and the rule of law in that country has deteriorated even further. These events also had negative side effects, creating unprecedented precedents in the history of the Council of Europe. In particular, the opening events of the Georgian Presidency took place not as a traditional form in the capital of the Presidency of the country, Tbilisi, but exceptionally in Strasbourg, in order not to provoke the protests of the people of the occupied country, in their institutions, by taking the so-called wolves in the sheep's skin. And that is the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 26 June last year, I could say, a critical mass has been achieved. Latvia, together with representatives of seven other delegations, immediately read a joint statement, expressing its disappointment at the outcome. And then also stopped work during the rest of the summer session. However, in reality, we must also, of course, be aware that the Parliamentary Assembly is working on the principles of parliamentary democracy, i.e. taking decisions with a majority, discussing them in committee meetings, political groups or political groups, and influencing every decision is both procedural and otherwise very philigre and extensive work. That is why we cannot remain alone; we must work with our allies. And here in Riga, on 6 September, we together with delegations from similar countries - Danish representatives, Estonians, British representatives, Georgians, Lithuanians, Poles, Swedishs and Ukrainians - met together to create a new format - Baltic Plus Group - in order to coordinate more and more clearly to remind the entire Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the basic principles of the organisation and to defend Russia's policy of non-recognition of Crimea's annexation - of the regular condemnation of Russia's military occupation in Eastern Ukraine, in part of Georgia and Moldova. Later, during the autumn session, the Latvian delegation, in solidarity with Ukraine, did not participate in the plenary sessions of this session, did not participate in the official celebrations of the 70th anniversary. At the same time, we continued their day-to-day work to increasingly convince the others that we need to change the course of the Council of Europe itself, if I may say so, to the full disregard of the Council's values. Only by being present and acting can we be visible and heard. Even after the autumn session we have met several times in this Baltic Plus group format, coordinating action. We are now coordinating our actions in the run-up to the January part-session next week, looking for new allies. Indeed, as the Latvian delegation is going to Strasbourg next week, we will do our utmost to challenge, together with allies, the issue of the mandates of the Russian Federation delegation, to hear us, and to ensure that the question - whether the Council of Europe is following the principles and values enshrined in its own founding Treaty - is not lost under the carpet. This year, as I said, we will celebrate the 25th anniversary of our accession to this organisation. I ask you to combine the two speaking times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U57	Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Please unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U58	Three years later, Latvia will have the honour of holding the Presidency of this organization. At this time, we have set ourselves the objective of using all possible instruments to bring the Council of Europe back to its values and roots in the coming years, so that it really is an organisation that protects human rights, parliamentary democracy, the rule of law, and the rule of law, and its mission would be to achieve greater unity among the Member States rather than to tolerate the situation where one Member State commits aggression by annexing the territories of another Member State. This is the situation of international organisations... international human rights organisations are unacceptable in their lives, and we cannot see it or talk about it. Without a doubt the shadows can be said that the work of the Latvian delegation at the Assembly, as well as cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Commission (a special supporter and friend of ours is the head of the Foreign Affairs Commission Rihards Kols)... We have been able to bring together fellow Members of the same mind, and I call on each of you, if you have the opportunity, to speak to Members of other countries, to invite them also to their delegations... remembering the aims and values of the Council of Europe, joining us in this watchful exercise of values. We will perhaps also discuss in the future whether this format - the Baltic Plus Group - will remain under this name, whether we need to expand our activities, perhaps to call ourselves the guardians of the Council of Europe Convention, or otherwise, so as not to geographically limit the desire of other countries to participate. However, this does not change the substance. We are, although a small country, but with a strong, straight spine, we will not keep silent, let us not remain in this situation. It is symbolic: next week we will take to Strasbourg a travelling exhibition on the 30th anniversary of the Baltic Way. Showing to the Council of Europe the power that the three Baltic States, in their hands, can remind us of the historical injustice - the Ribentrop-Molotov Pact - which a large part of the international community then chose not to see before the Second World War. We must not allow this to happen. We now have to keep our allies on the watch. We, as the Baltic Plus Group, are in our hands to protect values to protect Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and others. Dear Members! I would really like to thank our diplomatic service, especially Ambassador Ivar Pundura in Strasbourg, his team and supporting diplomats here in the Ministry, and wish our diplomatic and consular service the same force to defend the interests of the state of Latvia and its citizens, taking care of our freedom, the growth of the whole country, and to await the centenary of de iure for us all in security and prosperity. And, Minister, my sincere congratulations to you, as well as to all the Foreign Service staff on the coming Diplomacy Day. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U59	Thank you to Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U60	Thank you. Could I combine the two times?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U61	Are Members opposed to aggregation of time? There is no objection. Time is combined. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U62	Dear President, Mr. Foreign Minister! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Latvia is not a geopolitical player in the world, whatever we want, but economic geography is important to us. The prosperity, economic potential of our neighbours determine our export potential and our prosperity. We're not leaving... we do not limit ourselves to Germany, but we can cooperate through Lithuania and Poland, which are our major export markets, just as Estonia is the way to Finland and Scandinavia. So it is our interest to develop economically the competitiveness of our neighbours in the European Union. But what about competition in the European Union? Why is the European Union losing the United States? Why is the European Union losing its competitiveness in China? And why is the European Union losing its competitiveness in India lately? I did not hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it true to the President of the United States, Our Transatlantic Cooperation Partner Trump, who said in Davos: “We must reject eternal decision-making prophets and predictions about the apocalypse. We will never allow radical socialists to destroy our economy!” Is that so? ( Internouncing call.) Perhaps it is true for the Commissioner of the European Union, Liberal Timmerman and the left socialist Ferreira, whose statement we can read in Latvian newspapers, who say that we will move to a climate-neutral economy by 2050 and spend 100 billion on the fair transition fund. We can do this, but will the United States do it? Will China do this? Will India do this? Where will our money go? These are questions that we should respond to or discuss more quickly or later in our committees in the Saeima as well. Why is the European Commission not interested in competitiveness? If our gross domestic product varies somewhere around one percent and next year... Well, this year too, it won't be much bigger. Why does reducing competitiveness not bother anyone? Why do the representatives of Latvia do not object to unilateral examples of the use of statistics at the Council of the European Union? Why do we not listen to Latvian scientists about the causes of climate change and global warming? Professor of the University of Latvia Climate researcher Raimonds Kasparinskis says yesterday (can be read in the newspaper “Dada”): “Global warming is real and due to natural climatic conditions and cyclical fluctuations has been repeated several times, as has global cooling.” Examples include: The Vikings once colonized Greenland and dealt with livestock farming. It was the green land, where the glaciers were only in the north. Cooling in Greenland only started in 1408 and continued until 1850, when these glaciers covered most of Greenland. During the Roman Empire, the average temperature in Europe was above a few degrees above today. The fires in Australia, the honourable colleagues, as they say here, are not a consequence of the warming of the climate, but of the irresponsible attitude of Australia's authorities towards foresting over the last decades. Eycalyptus forests, which have grown up and have not been tended in recent years, are burning out of resins that explode like petrol and cause huge fires. So far, Australia has controlled all of this with burning, with so - called controlled burning, which has ceased in recent years. The result was the spread of this great fire, the formation of bulwark lights, and everything else. Professor Ojārs Āboltiņš of the University of Latvia says that unilateral opinion is harmful, ignoring climate change in the past 500 or 1000 years, but by referring only to 30 to 50 years, creates conditions and distracts attention from the need to fully explore natural processes, affects irrational and sometimes dangerous economic development policies and wasteful waste of money. The reports of the General Assembly of the European Geosciences Union are held every year in Vienna. It is extremely symptomatic that only European Union scientists report annually on the impact of man on the climate. At the same time, scientists from the USA, China, India and other countries stress the impact of the sun and the natural conditions on the climate, but we ignore it. A little bit about the economy. Where, then, should the money be spent? Should EUR 100 billion be spent in this equalisation fund or trillion in order to reduce CO2 emissions? Should Latvia spend money on building concrete poles 200 metres high on which we would put electric motors, which generate many times more emissions than the use of fossil energy? In order to replace the energy generated by fossil energy in Latvia, 500 wind parks should be built – like we have now built these wind rotor pillars. So about 15 to 20 wind parks in every county... next. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Do we... Perhaps we need to invest money in green agriculture, saving 60 per cent of energy and 20 per cent of CO2 emissions? That is, to produce food close to the places of consumption, not to transport monocultures within 1000 kilometres of road transport. Varis Bokalder, professor at Stockholm Technical University, wrote: “In economic terms... “ Well, he writes: “The agricultural policy of Sweden and the European Union is a disaster. Over the last 50 years, the consumption of artificial manure has increased from 10 to 80 tons.... The Baltic Sea is dying. The eutrophication is linked to blue algae, and due to lack of oxygen in the Baltic Sea, there have been dead areas of the seabed due to huge nitrogen and phosphorus leakage. The cultivation of monocultures.’ The Baltic Sea is far from Brussels, so we obviously have other priorities if we fight CO2 emissions. ‘ We need an application economy,” writes professors of the University of Latvia, “not a CO2 stop economy”. Perhaps the money must be spent in Riga to build a suitable rainwater collection system that can collect these tropical rain gases, not this outdated system that creates flooded streets every year? Of course, we are a classic example of wasteful spending. Unfortunately, we also voted in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission that from 1 January biofuels are added to petrol from 5 percent to 10 percent. We had not been given any research (scientific) on the usefulness of this activity. It turns out that the mixing of ethyl alcohol with fossil petrol has nothing to do with the green lifestyle, because 33 percent of the energy stored in grain is transformed into biofuels, so cereal production in Latvia must be at least 66 centners per hectare, not 40 centners or 41.7, as was the case for winter wheat last year. Let one tonne of biofuel be produced... more than 1.3 tonnes of fossil fuels are to be spent on the production of one tonne of biofuels. And that's what we call green politics. The same thing, as I said, with wind parks and all the others' solidarity. We should also remember that our economic partner - Poland - is also a very reliable NATO partner for us and, alongside the Suvalku Corridor and Kaliningrad Region, stabilises the efforts of some eastern neighbours to strike against the Baltic Sea. How do we support Poland? Last year, the General Affairs Council reviewed 12 decisions of the Polish Parliament and Cabinet of Ministers on the restructuring of the judicial system. Poles reduced the age of judges to get rid of the old Communists, which is contrary to the law of the European Union. But Poland does not have political prisoners like Catalonia or in Spanish prisons. We are not in favour of Poland, but are recommending that there be some kind of agreement with constructive negotiations. Poland also complains about the replacement of lignite and the possible energy replacement. By 2030, Poland provides 80 per cent of its electricity with lignite. But Poland's economy is currently developing twice as fast as Latvia's economy. And this year it is expected to be 3.5 to 4 percent. At the same time, we will achieve a good 2 percent. The Commission therefore The Dear Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, Steel, has just said that Latvia has joined the green course. I did not find any document that the Latvian Parliament would have voted in favour of such a decision or that we would have had one sitting here where we would have discussed how to spend money... What we should do. I think we really should focus one day on such a sitting. Perhaps we should spend money on reducing the ecological footprint, as Bokalder says, cleaning up the environment, changing agricultural policy, not developing funny projects and empty dreams for the future. Money should not be invested in combating climate change or changes in solar activity, but it is necessary for adaptation measures and for reducing ecological footprints. We need a foreign minister who says this in Brussels; we need ministers who openly say in the Council of Europe that we need to clean the Baltic Sea first and not dream of reducing CO2. We are not geopolitical players, and that is why our closest partners, Lithuania and Estonia, and in the military area, Poland, are stabilising our security. And that is why we have to work even more with them and we do not have to be ashamed to support them publicly at the meetings of the Council of Europe as well. And it should be pointed out that Brussels bureaucrats do not interfere in Poland's internal affairs, but look at how Brussels itself does not respond to the decision of the European Court of Justice, which recognised the Catalonia Member... the rights of Members of Parliament in the European Parliament. And the Spanish Government still fails to recognise this decision of the European Court of Justice. She scoffed at this decision openly. And we're silent. The Council of Europe is not talking about this either. The European Court of Justice... Thank God, the European Court of Human Rights is involved and at least does something. And the last one. Small countries need to strengthen international law. And so we must always remember that human rights violations in any country... they may also apply to us in the future. I also wish our Ministry of Foreign Affairs to remember this. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U63	Thank you, Mr Kirštein. Name to Member Uldis Budric. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U64	Madam President, Colleagues! Thank you to the Foreign Minister and also to the Foreign Service for keeping the right course. But this time I also want to throw a little tar spoon into this honey pot... in relation to such dual treatment... in relation to certain territories of Asia... Let us take this into account in relation to the same question for Taiwan. And the Minister also has no secret that we are defending Taiwan... and promote cooperation with Taiwan... Taiwan. But not about it. We don't... We have no illusions about the geopolitical situation we are in. An outstanding example is the Minsk ceasefire agreement concluded in 2015. However, there was a time limit for the eternity of the principle of peace in the Minsk Accord. The Ambassador of Latvia to Ukraine came with a statement a few months later: “If we go by point, we can conclude that violations from the Russian Federation are obvious.” It was five years ago, but nothing has changed at the moment. And when it comes to the obvious, we cannot ignore the fact that internally we have to fight with false news, but this time - not in terms of the click businessman or the Ventspils Trolley, or people who cannot be talked about, but because of conscious propaganda and changing public opinion. Here, fuel can be heard of those capital companies and services responsible for strengthening the information space. That is, it is about the presence of unwanted television channels for the state and also the presence of pro-propaganda television channels in our information space. It's a job that's been on our agenda forever, but the homework hasn't been done to the end. Why did I emphasize this? This weakness has undermined national security and territorial integrity in Ukraine and Georgia. And here, in the overall context, we must not change this position. This year, Georgia is the Presidency of the main European human rights organisations - the Council of Europe. A country that, unfortunately, has to fight for the human rights of its citizens in certain regions. The territorial integrity of these countries, the Euro-Atlantic course they have adopted, should therefore also be emphasised from this troupe. And when it comes to Georgia and Ukraine, we must also recommend strengthening the bilateral links between these countries at all levels, both diplomatic and parliamentary. As a parliament... Parliamentarians, colleagues, we need to be proactive in our work with parliaments from other countries. Here I refer to the example of Denmark, which does not have such a cooperation group as we have with them. If we have even the slightest chance that we can help Mrs. Missan, then we must do so, so after... At the next break, I would like to call a group of Members to facilitate cooperation with the Danish Parliament right here - in the Yellow Hall - in order to tackle these issues pro-actively. Finally and most importantly. We can, without shame, look at our strategic partners in the eyes of our strategic partners, that is to say, the allocation of 2 percent of NATO. It is a long-term investment in Latvia's security, and it strengthens our position internationally. Continuing with what Mr Pabrika said, at the moment, only politicians with tendencies towards separatism can speak against this allocation. Thank you, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U65	Thank you, Mr. Budrik. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U66	Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues! I listened to the Foreign Minister's speech and, after examining his report, I was forced to conclude that Latvia has unfortunately no independent, sovereign foreign policy at present - Latvia's diplomacy follows the directives of the European Union. We forget that the EU itself is a whole of sovereign states, each of which is guided by its own interests. Latvian politicians have a duty to formulate the external doctrine of the country, taking into account the needs of its people, mainly socio-economic. But instead we see a series of ritual oaths, where trust, responsibilities, and responsibilities are at the top of the... The European Union, NATO, the US and unfortunately rhetoric towards our neighbours. In the Prime Minister's report and address there is a lack of serious analysis of Latvia's relations with its closest neighbours in the Baltic region. By the way, our relationship with our neighbors is far from perfect. For example, in the Foreign Affairs Commission recently Members studied the work of the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia. I suddenly learned that LIAA has no representation in Lithuania or Poland, because Latvia's investments in these countries are small and are valued as our competitors. Tell me, why, then, a week ago, we took such an intense decision in this Chamber to show solidarity with Poland in the interpretation of its political history? What capitalisation is this position of Latvia's foreign policy? ( Internouncing call.) No one other than Kaspars Rožkalns, Director of Latvian Investment and Development Agency, said this to us. We face a serious crisis in Latvia's transit sector, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs unfortunately does not deal with the serious development of visits to Latvia's state officials, which could improve our economic relations with neighbouring countries. For example, in the recent visit by Prime Minister Kariņš to Belarus, unfortunately, we did not have a serious conversation with certain economic players in Belarus, although the host party offered to organise a joint business forum and solve issues. Unfortunately, at the moment we do not have solutions about Belarus's offers to develop a joint enterprise in one of the major cities of Latvia. I hope that, until President Lukashenko's visit to Latvia, which may take place this spring, you, Minister, will be able to take these suggestions into account and promote Latvia's ports... and the resuscitation of the free economic zone, which is of interest to Belarusian investors. But a little bit about Poland, too, I would like to add. Here Members of the National Alliance are so keen in defending Poland. In Poland's foreign policy, confrontational trends are obvious, and the European Commission has for years had a huge tooth on this country, including Hungary, as regards its non-compliance with European standards in the area of justice and media. I think you want, let us say, to introduce something similar in Latvia, so you are so zealous about Poland. ( Internouncing call.) The European Union, which is so often referred to by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is currently experiencing a systemic and... the worst crisis in its history. Unfortunately, the EU is now an organisation that is abandoned by Britain but to which Albania is seeking. Moreover, the European Union's subsidies to the Latvian economy are reduced annually. And 2020 can be the beginning of a serious crisis in our economy, overheated by European grants. Latvia urgently needs to reconstruct its relations with its immediate neighbours, restore full economic ties with them, not to give up on current advances in Iraq or somewhere else, try to establish democracy in the far... and among the people of unknown countries. I think Western partners... In fact, they do not take Latvia's efforts seriously. Last week, the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia distributed another report on the perception of Latvia's economy - how foreigners look at our economy. And the score is 2.8 on the five ball scale. That means that western, liberal... A conservative government cannot convince even Western investors that the Latvian economy is on the right track. Of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia has hundreds of strong professionals who are well-known to tens of countries in the world. We could have an effective foreign policy, but it should first of all have the right political leadership. We also need an understanding of a small country... limited objectives that go with common sense and pragmatism. Thank you, and I wish you good luck. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U67	Thank you, Mr. Cabanov. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U68	Hello, honourable Members, honourable Members! Sir, I will touch on two episodes in the annual report of the Foreign Minister and therefore it will not take you much time. But I think its episodes are important. The first is about receiving cohesion money, the second about receiving refugees. The objective of cohesion policy is, as we know, to reduce regional disparities within the European Union. It is understood that money is allocated to developing countries, or less developed countries, which have a per capita gross domestic product of less than 75 per cent of the European Union average. That is not the case, however. Cohesion money is also received by richer countries. For example, part of France and East Germany - these areas, which are known as transition regions or transital regions (in English), receive cohesion money if they have a GDP per capita between 75 and 90 per cent of the European Union average. Meanwhile, the funding conditions for the transition regions will become increasingly favourable in the next seven years. In other words, cohesion money will be available where GDP per capita is between 75 and 100 per cent of the European Union average. As a result, cohesion money, which could be allocated to developing countries (such as Latvia, for example), will be directed towards countries where the standard of quality of life is already incomparably higher than in developing countries. I call on the Foreign Minister to draw attention to the fact that political utility in relations with the European Commission does not cover Latvia's vital interests in the development of its less developed territories. Here I am talking first about Latgale. And that's a separate subject. I believe that the 75 per cent threshold for developing countries for cohesion money should set out, within such areas, areas with a GDP per capita below 75 per cent, for example below 60 per cent, and provide for additional cohesion funding. The second episode I would like to touch in my speech. The report states that Latvia believes that measures of migration solidarity cannot be automatic and that countries' participation in mechanisms for re-allocation of asylum seekers should be voluntary. This position remained the political compromise reached as early as August 2015, when the south of Europe was surrounded by a migrant crisis. This is due to the fact that international law includes the obligation for states to receive refugees and they remain in the territory of the country in which they crossed the border of the European Union. ( Internouncing call.) As a result, a large majority of refugees arrived in Malta, Greece and Italy. The European Commission then addressed the Member States with a proposal to receive part of the total number of refugees. Latvia replied: “Quotos - no! Only on a voluntary basis!’ However, ladies and gentlemen, if we're about... If we support the European Union's values, it would be logical to spend money on receiving refugees in other countries too, because the European Union funds all get money. For solidarity has been paid. Let us remember that Latvia, like Greece, is on the side of the European Union and, if an unexpected wave of refugees suddenly flooded Latvia as a flood in Greece in 2015, we will be able to remind both of the voluntary distribution of refugees between other Member States and of the fact that "migration solidarity measures cannot be automatic", as the report says now. In my view, such risks always exist, so we need to be very careful, even though in soft terms we should insist on ourselves in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U69	Thank you, Mr. Pimenov. Name to Member Armand Kraus. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U70	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Mr. Rinkēvičs! I also took part in this debate for the following years and have always stressed national interests... national interests in our economy, which also need to be at the forefront of foreign policy. That is why I would also like to look at our foreign policy today from the point of view of national interests. Here I want to focus on two specific projects that are most directly related to foreign policy. Of course, Mr. Rinkēvičs... exactly as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is involved directly by organising various visits... But it seems to me that it is very important for us to understand whether our foreign policy really works in such a way that Latvia's economy develops in the right direction. The first thing is about energy... We all know that Europe is moving... Yes, Europe is moving towards a neutral carbon and emissions policy. We have also talked about this today. But then I'm very surprised that in fact this government and government officials are still trying very successfully to support fossil fuels... and therefore develop it in Latvia. And that's the point - I want to emphasise! - about the Skulte gas terminal, where... More recently, a Latvian American spoke in Latvian, who unfortunately does not speak, Pēteris Aloizs Ragaušs and told how good this project is for Latvia. Here we have to say that, well, he is not the only one who is lobbying and driving this project. And our strategic partners are directly involved here. And here I want to say that U.S. Minister of Energy Riks Perijs visited Latvia, who in the most direct way, as well as media reports, was lobbying the interests of this project in Latvia. And then it's a question of whether, in fact, Latvia as a country... and do we support such projects... What do we support - Latvia's national interests and Latvia's economy? Are we, however, in this case in favour of our strategic partner, the United States, and are prepared to pay some money, the money of our citizens and our citizens, for this project? And here I will explain to those who will later read Saeima's verbs on what they're talking about... And also for this same Ricky Percy. Rick Perry is a well-known American politician, written by the media. After 14 years as governor of Texas, he decided to stand as a candidate for the post of President of the United States but failed. And instead, Perry came under the leadership of a large gas and oil company. In the Trampa administration he was at the portfolio of the Minister of Energy. And so this man cherishes his interests. That is absolutely logical. The media say that Perry is also invaded in the empire against Trump. And by the way, in this regard he has explained that... So Trump asked for an investigation against his rival Joe Baden's... transactions. Trumps does not take any responsibility for negotiating with Ukraine's President Zelenski, but... So he's just right that Rick Perry told him to call and had to talk about liquefied gas. What does it do? Now, of course, we are talking about foreign policy, but you see, the economy is actually at the bottom of the whole foreign policy. And here's... In this case, too... what has been lit by the media... in the clearest way... We see that this is not in Latvia's interest. It's... it is not actually in the interests of the American state; it is in a separate American... The interests of businessmen living in Texas. Well, and in this case we come, of course, to our Latvian, who does not speak Latvian - Mr. Ragauša, who successfully represents these interests in Latvia. And what I would like to say is why it is very dangerous for the whole of Latvian society. Because this scheme, which these investors want and Mr Ragauša, is actually a new OIC. If in this case we really honestly say “Come in!” all investors and they can open the market, get the Latvian market, compete on equal terms, then everything is fine. But what do these investors want? They do not want fair rules to compete, they want state guarantees. And here I can quote what these investors, who, through foreign policy and in fact also with the support of the government, are trying to drive the project in Latvia... They say: “We want to guarantee a large customer, such as Latvenergo, as it is the largest gas consumer in the region.” So in fact, they say that they have already started negotiations with the Latvian Government, with the Ministry of Economics, with Latvenergo... supported by the Prime Minister's Office... The Prime Minister met both with this US minister and actually... Well, the Prime Minister's head of the office, Mr Patmalnieks, worked for a very long time in the Ministry of Economics, and he knows very well all these outskirts associated with this terminal. But in this case, if Latvenergo enters into a contract and guarantees... guaranteed procurement, this is a very simple business. It is the current OIC, which will be paid by all Latvians. In fact, our foreign policy supports new payments to Latvian citizens and will drive us into the current OIK. The other thing, which is very recent, is also an international one. In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, all known stories about Ukrainian investors who are going to produce eggs in Latvia. Gallusman Ltd, which was therefore also heard by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. And the most beautiful. Yes, I understand that Ukraine is in war, we are very open to Ukraine. Yes, the Ukrainians need to help, but then they need to understand how transparent these owners are, how transparent this money is. Because this case with SIA Gallusman actually arises from our foreign policy - to help Ukraine, to be open. But here I would like to point out that the owners are very successful... the owners of this project have been hidden in Cypriot offices. In Cypriot offshores, where you can't keep track of the owners, where you don't know whether this money is Ukrainian money, or whether this money is Russian money... Just as well, perhaps it is one of Ukraine's former presidents, the money that circulates around the circle. In fact, it happens that we indirectly, but by realising a particular foreign policy, we support shell companies and also support offshore companies, which are completely in conflict with what we want in Latvia. We want to be transparent, and we want to be transparent... policies, but also investors who are really honest, who come and invest money that has not been criminalised. That is why I would also recommend to Mr Rinkēvičs to follow and see whether, in such cases, we can welcome these guests at the highest level, because in fact, these guests, although they hold some kind of public office, are actually lobbying their sponsors and their private interests. And in this case it is not in the interests of the state. Once again, I emphasize that Latvia's state interests are not to support investors who have hidden in shell companies and offshores, and Latvia's state interests are not to develop projects, where we all, Latvians and Latvians, all Latvians, will pay new payments (in the form of OICs, or whatever form) for the fact that Latvenergo will guarantee some American businessmen procurement... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the So... We hope that this foreign policy will be more focused on Latvia's national interests, because national interests are first.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U71	Thank you, Mr. Krauze. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U72	Hello, dear colleagues! However, I would like to touch on the following that national security depends to some extent also on internal factors, and that is, I would like to mention here once again, the uneven development of our territory in the region of Latvia. If this level of development is many times lower than in the capital, then it is reasonable to think that it is high time that this regional development is levelled out. And that is why I see this equalisation mechanism precisely in the context of administrative territorial reform. I have tried to talk about this issue several times and have put forward concrete proposals in this regard. In my view, only the specific funds that will reach the regions will be able to boost the development of these regions. But I'd like to say something like that. My proposals are, of course, not clearly appreciated. The fact that there is a desire, say, to maximise the regionalisation of national and European structural funds has called for resistance, and there are even specific people... I can name them on behalf of Mr. Finance Minister Reira... and Asheraden has also allowed my proposals to be called'separate'. I would like to clarify this. First of all, separatism - these are two sides of the medal. Separateism never exists on its own. The other side of the medal is colonialism. What does that mean? The most significant feature of colonialism is, in fact, the extermination of resources in a given territory, the devastation of that territory. If so, these regions, which are Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme and Latgale... Indeed, there may be a sign of this colonialism. So what, ladies and gentlemen, do we want to achieve? And how should I call you? For the honorable fellow colonialists? I have talked to my group, the New Conservative Party, once again, and we will discuss the importance of these regions in the near future and perhaps come to concrete decisions. And I hope that our group will not give up on these proposals for administrative territorial reform, ignoring the creation of administrative regions. Finally, I would like to say a few things about the next programming period of the European Structural Funds. As far as I am aware, in the last negotiations, Latvia is offered a 33 percent reduction in funding compared to the current programming period. Perhaps the biggest losses will be in the Ministry of Transport - 52 per cent; 43 per cent is expected to be such a reduction in the education, social sector; also in culture, science has a 19 per cent reduction. And that's because there are not timely regions designated in the NACE nomenclature. I would also like to ask: what will be the answer if Latvia loses 1.6 billion? Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U73	Thank you, Mr Kazinovsky. The name to Member Boris Cilevič. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U74	Yeah, thank you. Dear colleagues, I have only one question for the honourable Minister. The issue, which is about perhaps the most important issue today, is Europe at different speeds. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) On several occasions, both the government and the coalition have argued that we want to be at the heart of the European Union and that we want to have as deep integration as possible within the European Union. However, I do not really know how the coalition looks at the European Union right now. Is it just an economic union, or is it really a value-based union? Because the discussion was very opposed to the views of the various coalition parties. Colleagues (steel and Voika, for example) have argued that the coalition stands firm or should at least stand for an effective mechanism, however, to monitor and promote democracy and human rights within the European Union and to impose sanctions for non-compliance with these principles. At the same time, some colleagues from the National Union claimed exactly the opposite, defending, for example, the sovereign rights of Poland and Hungary - and I will say diplomatically, if we are already talking about foreign affairs - towards our own interpretation of democracy and human rights. As far as I can see, the government has followed exactly the national alliance's settings, because it is against the establishment of such an effective and concrete sanction mechanism. I would like to hear a clear position, i.e. whether we are about Europe as just an economic union and about the right of each country, a Member State, to interpret the principles of fundamental rights, democracy and human rights at its own discretion, or whether, however, we stand up for the fact that the European Union has common values and that the European Union can impose certain sanctions for failure to respect and disregard these values. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U75	Thank you, Mr. Cilevič. Mr Dolgopolov, do you have 10 minutes... No, but six... Is that so? It's not serious. In that case, colleagues, we are preparing for a break. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Let’s not register again?” ) No, this time we will register. Please check-in mode! Name for Member Uldis Budrik's statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U76	Dear colleagues, As I have already mentioned in the debate, I call on all the Members of the Group of Members to facilitate cooperation with the Danish Parliament in the Yellow House for a small meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U77	Name to Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U78	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Jānis Adamsons, Mārtiņš Bondars, Gundars Dauge, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Artus is!” )... Yes, Alexander Kirštein, Andrew Clementyev. A. Clementjev: ‘I am!’ )... Kirštin and? ( Interfaces: “There is no Kirštein! ”) “He just was!” ; “No!” ) Janina Kursīte... So Kirstein isn't there, Janine Kursīte was... Was, Ināra Mūrniece, Ivan Ribakov (Interim: Yes!) )... Yes, Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska... Yes, Didzis Schmits, John Wittenberg (Dep. J. Witenberg: “I!” )... And... and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U79	Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U80	Dear colleagues, We are continuing the debate. Please, take your seats! Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U81	Dear colleagues, Dear successor to Zigfried Anna Meierovica, our Minister for Foreign Affairs! It seems to me that nothing is as exciting as the foreign policy debate and the debate on the rate of excise duty on refreshing drinks and its impact on human health. I think there have been many pearls in the debate today. And I understand that the Foreign Minister, as always, listened very carefully to everyone, recorded a lot. And I would even recommend starting next year's report with a section on the real steps taken in response to the proposals and views in the debate. For my part, I would like to draw attention to two things... two problems and two things. The first thing I would say is: ‘ Foreign policy in the context of the European Union’, which in my view is divided into two parts. The first part is what the European Union is internal policy, but the Republic of Latvia is a direct expression and a direct expression of foreign policy. What am I talking about? Every time, following the positions of some ministries in the European Commission on individual issues, these are foreign policy activities in the European Union. Undoubtedly. Even more! Each ministry, even several restaurants, has their own offices in Brussels, which, in principle, perform foreign policy functions. I think it would be good if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs strengthened its role in coordinating this activity. That is what I have ever said and nourished now. Because, as you remember, we have quite a lot of times when we are trying to incorporate into Latvian legislation the laws adopted by the European Union in a rather great hurry. And these are the processes that take place in two readings - at a very rapid pace, so that we do not delay and are not subject to European sanctions. The other side of this action is the establishment of the common foreign policy of the European Union. Mr Cilevičs has already touched on this issue today. I just think that this is neither a coalition nor an opposition issue, nor even a purely foreign ministry issue. Here, I think it is important to think about the path that the European Union will take as a group of states. Because there are two principles here. Do we really continue to develop the pillar and principle on which the European Coal and Steel Community was built, when it comes to economic directions and economic cooperation, or are we talking about the confederal (at the beginning) and the federal path that had been expressed by a number of European Commission actors, including the Presidents of the European Commission? This way... There is nothing sinful here, but there is simply a need for choice, and there is a need for clarity about the path to be taken. If it is, however, an union of independent states, then it must be understood that, in principle, it is nonsensory, because there cannot be a single foreign policy for countries with very different interests. And it's also proof of life when it comes to talking about the same migrants, about other things where it's very... Even for economic things, where there are really very different and different interests, because countries are unevenly developed and there are different stages of development. So the first and main question here is what is supported by the Latvian Parliament, the Latvian State and the Latvian people? Are we going on a confederal or federal road, or are we going on to keep it? This leads to a number of answers to various questions. But when it comes to foreign policy, I would very much like to remind you of a number of things where we were so friendlyly involved in initiatives undertaken by the European Union. Let us say, I remember very well Baroness Ashton's letter on the situation in Libya, which was the basis for the intervention of the European Union countries in the Libyan crisis, which led, by the way, to what Mr Pimenova spoke about - the refugee problem in the European Union as such. Because these are the consequences of past actions that have emerged from the European Union. Consequently, every step taken outside the borders of the European Union must be assessed - not only seven times, but perhaps even 77 times. One example: We are talking a lot about Africa's support. An African aid fund has been set up that... If I'm wrong, Mr. Rinkēvičs will fix me... I think it is made up of one billion euros. And what is it meant for? This is intended to support African countries in their development. But what steps and what concrete steps... What specific actions? Should not and should not it be appropriate to support, say, the food programme for Africa, which would help to realise the overproduction of agriculture that exists in all the countries of the European Union, instead of quotaing it and freezing, say, agricultural production. This is just one example. That is why there is a substance for reflection, first and foremost, for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The other thing I would like to talk about. This is international law, which has not been talked about only by the lazy today. International law is not anything that is laid in stone. I have to say that the first... I am not saying, let us say, about the examples of the previous centuries when the first steps, which formed the rules of international law, were formed. The 20th century was remarkable with three conferences, whose task was also to develop international norms that were operational during the period. It was a conference in Paris after World War I, it was a San Francisco conference that studied the results of World War II, and it was a Helsinki agreement, I think, in 1970. Each time, different approaches were established to the equipment that should be regulated by international law. One example: There are two equal norms in international norms: the right of the peoples to self-determination, which appeared after the collapse of the colonial empire and which supported the general national freedom movements in Africa and elsewhere. And the other side appeared - the indivisibility of the territory, which was highlighted and shown in particular after the Helsinki Conference. Both rules have the same character and the same international force. There are also other examples that describe the fact that international law can be treated differently and that it corresponds to or does not correspond to a specific time period. Conclusion from this. Much has changed over the last 75 years. That means we have to sit down... States and formulate contemporary requirements for international standards. What can I say to you is where international rules record the right of one country or group of countries to impose sanctions in their relations with other countries? Where is it recorded? Is this the right step or the wrong move? That's... it is applied. In practice, it therefore acts as a rule of international law. But is that right or wrong? I do not think that our Foreign Ministry will be the one who will form and hold a world-wide meeting where a new international norms or existing international norms could be discussed... their adaptation...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U82	Mr Dolgopolov, your time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U83	... these times and their requirements. ( Interface: “It’s over! ” ) But I think that principle...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U84	Mr Dolgopolov! Merge? Members shall not object. Let's get it together.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U85	... must also be at the heart of our foreign policy activities. And the last one. We all live in a very fragile land, and the task of all politics is to carry this ship away so that it does not sink into the dull sea. First of all, this concerns foreign policy and the functioning of foreign policy. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U86	Thank you, Mr Dolgopolov. The name of Member John Tutin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U87	Colleagues! Prime Ministers! Yes, it is clear to us all that we are now living at a time when geopolitical change... Not at all. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) The world has become much more complex, changing and more competitive. The situation in the Middle East has got worse, Russia and Ukraine are in a sharp conflict, the US and China have been engaged in a trade war between themselves, Britain is leaving the European Union and so on. This is complicated due to the different global visions and the failure to comply with international rules or their different interpretations. The vision of China, the USA, Russia and other countries for themselves is changing, as they see themselves in the global context. Seeing the growth of China, whose economy is ahead of Europe, and in the coming decades, it is likely that the US's economic power will also be overcome... It also requires the United States to change its attitude and relations with its allies. All of this makes up (of course seen from the edge) the competition between the countries of the world. The rules adopted have changed, and so we have to ask ourselves: what are we in this world's power race policy? Is a small pollen or a country with the ability to influence and say its name in ongoing processes? And does anyone listen to us and take it into account? Unfortunately, it appears that, very often, our political message or what we have done is doing more harm to our country's economy than good. Our holidays in the banking sector, the financial system, the economy, approaching the grey list, unwillingness to improve and strengthen the social guarantees of the population and... the basic principles, the unwillingness to increase the material situation of the population, the insufficient defence of the interests of its country and its citizens in Europe and in the world, which unfortunately creates a sense of distrust on the part of investors, local entrepreneurs, allies and potential partners. We need to change the political will to take more ambitious action, specifically to address the most important and necessary economic issues for Latvia. We also need to move towards the idea that the interests of Latvia's state and citizens would be the most important to us. Unfortunately, the current world situation shows that excessive reliance on the views and actions of other countries can harm us. So I think that we should start thinking about the interests of our country, both in internal and foreign policy, and only then on others. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U88	Thank you, Mr. Tutina. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: Finally, Aldi! How long can you wait?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U89	Hello, colleagues! Today, I was encouraged by the speeches that were made this morning and that focused on the creation of a culture of personality, and on such self-satisfaction. — The Interface: “You are talking about yourself?” How good we are in foreign policy! And so I want to make a few small critical remarks about the work of Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs not only in the last year, but in general during his lifetime. On the last year, by the way, the Foreign Minister's work has been felt, not to mention fatigue. Not even many flights in the business class, at an increased price, at the taxpayer's expense; to Finland in the business class or to Ukraine in the business class - it doesn't help, such fatigue is. And this is confirmed by today's report by the Foreign Minister. That is, no goals, no visions of foreign policy in the future. Well, that's what we... could also read such a report, and that's it! Nothing's changed. Nothing would change! It was very short. Obviously not to have a debate today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “The length is not dependent!” (Laughter) The Foreign Ministry could not, in principle, fly anywhere, and the Foreign Minister could not fly anywhere, and nothing would change. At the same time, the embassies will bring the packages where they need to be brought. did it this year? What are these mountains of gold? Let us look at this: is there or is there no increase in investment? Has direct investment increased or decreased? In today's context, attracting investment and attracting direct investment is the main task of the Foreign Minister. Direct investment of fuel years, Mr. Rinkēvičs, is actually decreasing in Latvia. Latvia is one of the poorest countries in Europe. By the way, Mr. Rinkēvičs, it's almost the poorest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Rinkēvičs, has had any improvements during his term of office? Over the last eight years, we have become richer in the European context, or in the European context, compared to other European countries, we have become even poorer? I can say that we have become even poorer in the context of other European countries, and this is a direct task and responsibility of the Foreign Minister. Latvia was subject to the supervision of Moneyval, and it is also the responsibility of the Foreign Minister that we are being strengthened in the financial sphere and that we... that looks at us as a problematic country. How many years has Mr. Rinkēvičs been Minister for Foreign Affairs? Why does Mr Rinkēvičs generally allow other countries to look at us as a problematic country? Why do we have to deal with these Moneyval problems? And it is also a matter of diplomacy, which has not been resolved that we should have to go through such a process at all. The Foreign Minister's actions in defending his country's citizen against extradition to South Africa. Example: What has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs done? What is the result? Says: “We did everything.” In fact, the Foreign Ministry's actions have been post-factum. It has not been proactive, it has not been an initiative, and it has not been before the events, when these events could actually have been affected. And that is the responsibility of the Foreign Minister. Let's see history! During the government of Kučinsky... by the way, let us remember history: Mr. Rinkēvičs has dealt with my colleague (who, by the way, gives me a lot of ideas, by the way, other speeches, not this one) Mr. Dūklav. Remember, there was a case where Mr Dūklav met with the Vice-President of Russia for agriculture. It was even a huge scandal that there was a state betrayal at least or that Mr Dūklav had acted inconsistently with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Rinkēvičs, by the way, knew about the situation. Why was that minister there? To go to a specific fisheries undertaking to receive an order from the country concerned. That event should have been attended by Mr Rinkēvičs and supported our country's business. Was he there? No, he wasn't there. He said that Dūklav had not written reports and had not agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But if we are talking about duality - Mr. Rinkēvičs, listen very carefully now! At the same time, how many reports have you, Mr Rinkēvičs, written to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister and also the security authorities about your regular meetings with one Russian multimillionaire (oligarch, I would like to say) Piotr Avenue? What have you discussed at these meetings? Are they official or informal? What state policy do you pursue in these negotiations, Mr. Rinkēvičs? Why are you not talking publicly about this that you are regularly drinking wine with a Russian multimillionaire in shells? Is this Latvia's foreign policy? That's how you push it? What contribution does the Latvian economy have from such meetings? Tell me! Why don't you go to the bar and talk about what you're doing at such meetings? And most importantly, tell me how many reports you have written about such meetings, because I have information that the security authorities know that you have had such meetings. We are our strategic partner in the United States, as Mr. Rinkēvičs says, as Mr. Pabrik says. You will see a picture of Mr Rinkēvičs and Mr Pabrik's social networking about the U.S. President some time ago, and you will see a pretty interesting picture there - what they say about Donald Trump both. That is what responsible politicians do, who say that the United States is our strategic partner? Writes disgusting Twitter records of the U.S. President? I don't think so. In such a case, the cross runner who writes a complaint on Twitter to Trump at four o’clock in the morning is more responsible for you and your records. The sanctions imposed on Ventspils companies against the state-owned company will soon make Ventspils a degraded area. Education institutions already say they don't have funding, it's over. Why did you allow such sanctions against a public company, in fact a port? Because there's another question: where is the transit? Where is your responsibility for transit, Mr. Rinkēvičs? Where's the transit? Look at the statistics: transit volumes are falling. And I can answer you, Mr Rinkēvičs, you could also look in the eye once, I could answer where the transit is. There is! How many times have you been in Belarus and Russia to negotiate transit cargoes? How many loads have you talked about - personally you? How much have you done? Where is this in your report? No words! I'm gonna have to combine time, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U90	Are Members opposed to aggregation of time? ( Insights: “There is no objection! ” ; “No!” ) There are no objections. Time is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U91	One more question, Mr. Rinkēvičs. Has Latvia been the UK's closest ally in the Brexita negotiations? The closest ally! Were you a British lawyer? No, you weren't, Mr. Rinkēvičs! You were a prosecutor. Despite the fact that there are 100 000 of our people, our citizens, in Britain, despite the fact that Britain is a large export market and an export partner, and despite the fact that our strategic partner - the US - the President has supported the brexite, you were a prosecutor and not the first to defend Britain. Where is the Foreign Minister, when should we defend Poland - a country in our region with a similar policy, similar problems? Then there is such a bureaucratic gentle edge: well, as in Europe, it will be. No active position. And then we want us to be defended?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What has the presence of certain United Nations politicians in the high positions of the European Union helped Latvia not to be one of the poorest countries in Europe? Nothing! Just selfish self-interest. By the way, your party, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has one of those positions. What did you talk to that party member so that Latvia would not be the poorest or one of the poorest European countries, but the richest European country? What exactly? Did you drink the wine? And that's all. Latvian foreign policy has not recovered its budget in 2019. If the greatest and only success in foreign policy is that the Russians have not invaded Latvia. That is the only success. Not an increase in investment, not an increase in the well-being of the Latvian people, but rather the fact that people are coming back to us, not that we are British ourselves, the best friend, and that we have everything out of business here, but that Russians have not invaded us. That is your only success. That's what you say every year. That's it! This is the whole foreign policy. It does not need a foreign minister, anyone can say it, even without education, nor is it elected in the Saeima as your Prime Minister. What do I say in today's speech, if, for example, I had mentioned the Minister for Foreign Affairs in addition? I would call on Europeans - Germans, Dutch, Swedish - to move with all the wallets of money to Latvia. Because we are not overcrowded, we have a low level and risk of terrorism, fresh air, clean food, an excellent geographical location. And I would come with plan B, Mr. Rinkēvičs, which you don't have. I would come with plan B, what Latvia will do if there is a continuation after the brux. It is clear to all reasonable people that this will happen sooner or later. What is Latvia's plan B? By the way, this is the plan for Finland, Estonia and some other countries, almost everyone. Are you there? Did you say that? You didn't. You did not say anything about the future either. It's drifting in self-satisfaction and a narrow circle of admiration, Mr. Rinkēvičs. Mr. Rinkēvičs, the status of the cabin lion is not enough. People are waiting for Google, Amazon, Facebook offices in Latvia instead of your participation in fine dinner and reception with wine or flight in business class to Helsinki, where you have to fly for 50 minutes and where you can also sit in economic class. This is what people expect from you. Entrepreneurs expect you to leave with entrepreneurs and bring investments and funds here. The financial sector expects that there will be normal banking activities, which you should have implemented over the eight years. These are your tasks, Mr. Rinkēvičs. But you are a cabin lion, and that is what you also need to change in the sense of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U92	Thank you, Mr. Gobzem. I closed the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “I am closing the debate first and then the hammer!” Thank you. (See the box below.) The name is our Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs. Please! (Interface: Debate closed!) (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U93	Dear Saeima! Thank you very much for this debate. I think that they were interesting, very multilateral and showed that the quality of the debate in our country is very good. I would like to answer both a number of questions and criticisms and remarks about what was said at the moment. First of all, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to my colleagues who have spoken good words to both the Foreign Service and consular officials. I would also like to say that many of the proposals that have been made, such as what Mrs Beitnere-Le Galla said about the Embassy in Australia, remain on the agenda of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We deliberately came up with a proposal to postpone the opening of the embassy, given the situation with medical salaries, but that does not mean that we have abandoned it. What else would I like to say? That I fully agree with Mr Kola that our cooperation with the Saeima is very good, especially in view of the regular link both with the Foreign Affairs Commission and with the European Affairs Commission. Of course, this report is also being prepared (I co-chair... and then, in the final version), we have exchanged views, and much of what Members from the composition of both commissions on improvements in the report have taken into account. I would also like to express my special thanks to Mrs Steela for her cooperation with the Commission on European Affairs and with all Members. As far as a number of the issues that have been raised here are concerned. Mrs Voika spoke about the fact that we should give more support to linking the multiannual budget to the rule of law and give the Commission greater powers. The government has not yet agreed on a position, but I do not believe that it would be right that, in fact, the political commission would, to a large extent, deal with issues that would fall within the competence of the Court of Justice of the European Union. If the Commission considers that a Member State violates the principles of the rule of law and has some impact on the multiannual budget, then, in our view, the Commission should go to the Court of Justice of the European Union and reach a court decision rather than act of its own will, and then we could work on the so-called reverse qualified majority, which then repeals the Commission's decision accordingly. This, in my opinion, would be contrary to the principles of the European Union. And at a time when the government will have to formulate a position, then the Foreign Ministry will come up with more or less such a position (and of course it will also be debated at the government sitting). Then, of course, I am glad to find that I do not really understand what the position of the Group of the FAO is. Because one says that Mr. Trampa is good, and the other says that it's not so good at all... if we listen to what Mr Valaiņš and Mr Krauze said. But there is a lie, there is a big lie, and of course there is Mr. Valaiņš, just like Mr. Gobzem. (Laughter) First of all, I would like to see even one dozen, at least one statement in which... that the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Latvia or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has in some way mixed in the US pre-election process. On the contrary, our policy has always been extremely clear. We are not in favour, we are not blaming, we are not criticising politicians from any country... especially in the course of the pre-election process. But we will work with the United States - with those people who will be elected. That has been the case. And, Mr. Valains, if you missed, then... I have not yet been the owner of the Riga Castle, and both President Vējonis, who comes from your respective political force queues and met with Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, in the Riga Castle. And Latvia will always welcome any Vice-President, any Secretary of State, any US politicians, no matter when... what time is there and will discuss what is on our agenda. Consequently, from that point of view, I think that it should not be simply lying here, that we should not talk about deleted twilights, and that we should not be blaming what we do not have. At the same time... I can also tell you that we are preparing a 5G memorandum with the US. It will most likely be signed during my visit at the end of February. And we will definitely continue to work with the United States on all issues here. But, overall, your speech, Mr. Valaiņš, is more in line with that. Knowing, of course, how you change the parties... Maybe you'll be there in the next term. (Applause) Mr. Dombrovskis! Mr. Dombrovskis, there is no such second Republic of Latvia. It is the Republic of Latvia, which was occupied by the Soviet Union in 1940. And that should be taken into account. As regards the blacklisting of Grigory Leps, this has been done in accordance with the recommendation of the national safety authority and is based on links to organised crime this time. Don't look for politics, grab who he is. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis’ intermediate call. Go on. With regard to a number of points raised by Mrs Golubeva, I agree: the development cooperation budget is insufficient. I would like to hope that the Saeima will support the increase. We usually come with larger budget figures, but during the discussion it is decreasing. At least this year, we have reached a figure of more than half a million. That budget figure will increase slightly. Mrs Ruksane-Schipčinskas wanted to hear data on consular assistance in general. Last year - 1159 cases; hospital assistance 123, the protection of the rights of minors 138, the protection of minors - 153, assistance to the detained - 496 Latvian citizens have received assistance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the human trafficking cases identified - 4, deaths - 245. These are the statistics that are the daily life of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And, in fact, I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has provided help to Kristīne Missan from the first day that relatives approached us. And, actually, I'm not interested in what one Member thinks; I'm more interested in what they tell us, radi. And they have told the Ministry of Foreign Affairs thank you, thanks you publicly. Once again, listen to people’s thoughts rather than live your own ideas. But as for one thing, I would both like to use this concluding speech. I would like to inform the Saeima that our Ambassador has met with the Danish Parliament's speaker today morning, passed on an official statement by the Saeima, and has talked about how these issues could, however, be brought up to date about the failure of Ms Kristīne's Misane. At the same time, the Speaker of the Danish Parliament has, of course, pointed to what we have heard from the Prime Minister of Denmark, what we are... Prime Minister, I'm sorry... from the Danish Foreign Minister that neither Parliament nor the government can mix in the work of the Danish courts at the moment. Our work is not over. We will continue to work, and our work does not end when, for example, someone is betrayed to another country. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to provide this person with maximum consular assistance, even if it were South Africa or any other country in the world. So that at the moment, even if something does not come in the situation that we would like to, our work continues and our support continues. I would like to thank Mr Vucanas very much for the Baltic Assembly Presidency. I think that our cooperation was good, and I also fully agree with all the works, the good works that Mr. Wuzan listed as... both the President of the Baltic Assembly... as well as our cooperation with the Baltic Council. Of course, thank you also to colleagues from the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Thank you also to Head Inese Lībiņa-Egnere! Last year, we demonstrated a good sow. We have, in a way, become Baltic Plus leaders and we must continue to work at the same pace both in the Council of Europe and in other international organisations. Mr Cabanov spoke here about Belarus, and many spoke here about these visits and other things. You see, our cooperation with Belarus is a fantastic, simply fantastic example of what overturns the fact that good political relations immediately mean good business relations. From this platform and everywhere else, I have said that we also have tariff policy issues. More recently, Prime Minister Kariņš was indeed in Minsk, and indeed met with Belarusian leadership. A couple of days later, our own companies working here refused to transform... transport Norwegian oil through our ports to Belarus. Ask him why! And I think that it is no longer a question for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government or anyone else, but it is also a question of how much our own business is prepared to take advantage of these opportunities and how much we hear simply saying that politicians are mixing and not doing everything. Mr Pimenov, migration policy and position reflect, in fact, the position of the government at the moment, and the foreign minister has properly reflected the position of the government in his report. It has not changed for five years, and I do not think it will change significantly. Mr Krauze referred here to the issue of Skulti. There is no decision from the government at the moment, but I can also say that it is not quite the case that someone here is under enormous pressure. The fact that we should build something or not will be our sovereign decision, taking into account our economic interests, our national security interests as well, and this issue will still have to be discussed. Finally, I think... On what is Latvia's vision of the European Union, I would like to say this: we have already talked about this vision in turn by several Saeima, and that is the answer to those who are asking about a federal or confederal state. We have always stressed that Latvia sees the European Union as a strong, national union. We do not see it now in any way, either as federations or as confederations, but we certainly see that we can play an active role in our European Union policies. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! ( Internouncing call.) I would like to thank everyone very much for this debate. The next year is the anniversary, and next year we will all celebrate the centenary of Latvia's international (de iure) recognition. I want to hope that this year will be just as successful and creative for all of us, and I hope for joint cooperation. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U94	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you, colleagues, for the coherent debate. Consequently, the Foreign Minister's annual report has been examined. Next: consideration of draft decisions. The Cabinet is leading the draft decision “On the extension of the term of office of the soldiers of the Latvian National Armed Forces for the participation in the military operation of the international coalition against the terrorist organisation ISIL/ Da’esh in Iraq”. This issue is referred to by Foreign Minister Artis Pabriks. ... protection, I'm sorry. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U95	I also applied for the Meierovitz site. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Clementyev: “Yes, yes, yes!” ) Dear colleagues! This is an important legal decision related to the sovereign right of Latvia to participate legally in various international operations. And, as you know, international operations and international missions are also one of the cornerstones of our security and our solidarity with other countries, as well as efforts to help solve security problems in the global world... Also, of course, with the aim of - if we get into a more difficult situation - then we will also be able to get help from our allies. Since 2014 Latvia has politically joined the international coalition in the fight against ISIL/ Da’ esh, and 81 countries are currently working and operating in this coalition. Since 2016, Latvian soldiers have been participating in the international operation Inherent Resolve in the territory of Iraq; it is a training mission for Iraqi soldiers. Our soldiers in that territory, in that country, do not participate in direct combat activities, they can defend themselves, but they do not participate in combat activities. So it is now time for Latvia to restore this mandate. And with this I also turn to you, reminding you that this mandate does not oblige us to participate. The security of our soldiers is the highest priority. We will always assess and continue to assess the situation - in which operations, in which locations, locations and where our soldiers are located, but at the same time we must have a clear mandate, issued by the Latvian Saeima and approved by the Latvian government, that we can participate in these operations. It's time for the previous mandate, it's time for it to be renewed. This was the case in December for our neighbours. Lithuania renewed this mandate in December. So that I call on the Saeima to vote and restore this mandate to our forces, who are currently in Kuwait - only two people at the moment - but we are waiting for a further call from the Iraqi Government and also visas to Iraq. And let us be ready to continue our training mission if necessary. If things change, of course, these soldiers will be able to go back home as well. Thank you, and I call on you to support this extension of the mandate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U96	Thank you, Mr. Pabrika. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U97	Hello, colleagues! On 26 June 2014, the Government of Iraq, through a representative, asked the UN to assist the international community in the fight against the terrorist organisation Da' esh, a so-called Islamic state. Latvia and its allies responded to this call because at that time it was clear to the whole world what evil and what danger this organization is. Our soldiers in the coalition in the fight against the Islamic state contributed to training the Iraqi armed forces. I have often heard different views and sometimes even heard questions from our soldiers in distant lands. And I always have an answer to that: the same as here - they are protecting our national security there. What does this mean? Well, first and foremost, they do not allow to win and they do not allow further expansion of terrorist organisations. Secondly. In this way, we assure our allies that we are ready with them to stand in our common values and interests with weapons. Thirdly. In this way, we also show that, when we are in the alliance, we are not only the beneficiaries of security, but also the providers of security. Yes, it is publicly known that, some time ago, the Iraqi Parliament had issued a resolution according to which the Iraqi Government should take steps to leave Iraq's territory with the foreign armed forces. However, as we can see, the Iraqi Government does not rush into such a procedure, because apparently the Iraqi Government understands that the threat of an Islamic state is not left anywhere, it is still there, it is still in this region, it is still ready to destroy countries and cities, it is still ready to kill hundreds and thousands of people. I would therefore like to say that, until the Iraqi Government has withdrawn its call for assistance, our soldiers have a legitimate basis for this mission. I therefore call for support for the draft decision presented by the government to extend the mandate until 1 February 2022. Thank you, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U98	Thank you, Mr. Rancan. Colleagues, Latkovsky has come in... Forgive me, please vote. We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the term of office of the soldiers of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the military operation of the international coalition against the terrorist organisation ISIL/ Da’esh in Iraq. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. There is a proposal to declare a break. Members Ainars Latkovska, Daniels Pavluta... Ata Zakatistova, Juta Strike and Raivja Dzintar’s submission: “Please stop the sitting of the Saeima on 23 January following discussion of question 2 by 9 a.m. on 30 January.” ) Are there any objections? No objections? And the objections? On the procedure. Please turn on the microphone of Stepanenko. Please! At first, Linda was still... Mrs. Liepaja, Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U99	Dear colleagues, Since this proposal was not agreed with all the applicants, we very much ask you, my fellow Member, to decide on the draft law “On the actions of the Republic of Latvia in cases where another Member State of the European Union decides to extradite a Latvian citizen to a third country for prosecution”. Given that this is an urgent issue, we are very, very much asking you to hand over to the Commission at the beginning and then to go on a break. If you can. We haven't been able to write the application because we didn't know you prepared this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U100	Thank you. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) Please turn on the microphone for Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U101	I just have a question. Was it not necessary to decide before this one to change the agenda for the documents that have been submitted to you?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U102	We may be changing the agenda when we look at the 30th... Does it change anything? ( Milestones.) Who's that question? Thank you. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Linda Liepiņa, Aldis Gobzems, Didzis Šmits, Karina Sprūde, Uldis Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis and Dana Reizniece–Ozola submitted a draft law “On the actions of the Republic of Latvia in cases when another Member State of the European Union decides to extradite a Latvian citizen to a third country for prosecution”. It is proposed to refer the matter to the Foreign Affairs Commission and the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Draft law passed on to commissions. (Applause) Yeah. Do Members have reservations that we are going on a break until 30 January? ( Milestones.) There is no objection. Wonderful! ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) In that case... and objections? And the objections. And the objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “I have reservations!” (See the box below.) Yeah. Please... Yes, please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U103	I wanted to speak against this proposal before the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U104	You can't... on the procedure. On the procedure. Yes, please! ( Internouncing call.) Microphone, please! Please, the microphone, Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U105	It's now, huh? Colleagues, I understand that you want a break, because Members... The neighbourhood and Blumberg are as the proposal to withdraw from the commissions, but I would like to use what one Member said earlier from the parliamentary tribunal: 'Don't! It's not personal!” It's just... Well, it's under the Order Roll... it must also be decided... That's the question. Now, what do you make now a break for a week to trade again? Let us decide today and then go to rest! Thank you all. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U106	Thank you for your opinion. Please vote mode! About... About... for a break until January 30! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes. Medicines cause noise.) a suspension until 30 January. Colleagues! The sitting is not over. About... on answers to Members' questions from 5 p.m. on 30 January 2020. Why 30? Member Zariņa, Klementyeva, Kucina, Niconova, Orlova and Kabanova’s urgent question to Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiro “On the action of the Ministry of Economics regarding the establishment of benchmarks for OIC stations under the Electricity Market Act”. The written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs that it is not possible to come to an oral response due to a pre-planned work schedule. The question of the Members Kabanova, Dombrovskis, Ribakova, Cileviča and Agešina to the Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska “On Monitoring the Quality of Education”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question of the Members Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Gobzem and Krauze to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūcem “On construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal and a gas transmission pipeline from Skulte port to Inčukalns underground gas storage”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans, about protection of the rights of Latvian citizen Kristīne Misāne, Gobzems, Sprūde, Papule, Stepanenko, Liepāja and Smits The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions. The question by the Saeima Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Krauze, Bergmanis and Vucans to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On a uniform rate of excise duty on alcohol in all Baltic States” has been accepted and will be handed over to the Prime Minister. Please vote mode! ( Interfaces: “Registration! ”) ) The registration regime. Yeah. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “We will vote for registration!” ) Registration procedure! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U107	Not registered: Arvils Aseradens, Jānis Adamsons, Mārtiņš Bondars, Gundars Dauge, Inese Ikstena, Janīna Kursīte, Ināra Mūrniece, Didzis Šmits, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Vitenbergs... Tutin and, Jānis Vitenbergs... Yes, John Wucan and Normund Gunn... Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-23-PT13-2034-U108	Thank you. Interruption until 9 a.m. on 30 January 2020. ( Interruption)
