ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We started the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 28 May this year. Dear colleagues, Before starting to discuss the agenda, I would like to inform you that Members' requests to speak about the procedure were received without taking advantage of the remote sitting. Unfortunately, it is impossible to say that, because then, my fellow Members, you will not hear the rest of the Saeima. The procedure or all other matters of the sitting can only be discussed at this remote sitting. The issue to be addressed and the agenda Colleagues (Intergovernmental) , since no one has applied for a procedure to speak, thus moving to the agenda. ( Milestones.) Please, first question. Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendment to the law on measures to prevent and manage a threat to a State and its consequences due to the spread of Covid-19’. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U2	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, the audience and the audience! ( The sound is broken.) ... Good morning... Good morning... Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues and audiences and listeners of the sitting! And I... I have mine. Good morning... own... Good morning... I'm sorry, I switched the headphones. Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima... That sounded to me... Okay. Good morning! Is that it? Good morning...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U3	We hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U4	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Sitting viewers and listeners! I'm sorry about the technical incident. I had the wrong headphones turned on. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission in this (Interdependence.) On Monday, we examined amendments to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences due to the spread of Covid-19. Together, we received 22 proposals. And the first proposal stems from what I mentioned earlier that we decided in the Commission on draft law No. Add 701/Lp13 to this bill. The proposal 1 follows from this draft law and provides for the exclusion of the second paragraph of Article 13. And when the first paragraph of this Article is adopted, the second paragraph is no longer necessary. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U5	(Sound rupture) ... Discussion The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U6	I will talk about proposal 2. I'm not going to talk about one.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U7	The name of Member Arthur Rubik. ( Internouncing call.) Member Arthur Rubik doesn't want to talk. That concludes the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Mr. Mūrniece, she doesn’t work... the Internet!’ ) For the Commission Is that so? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U8	In the Commission, proposal 1 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U9	The Commission is therefore in favour of proposal 1. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Mr. Mūrniece, have you heard?” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 1. – the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! Thank you. For – 80, against – 1, refrains – none. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U10	The proposal received from Member Lochmele-Lunovo provides for a change in the legislation on the death benefit. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U11	(Sound rupture) ... Discussion The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U12	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning for all who follow the Saeima sitting! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the application of the proposal under consideration was made because I pressed the button on the agenda. So I ask the technical service staff to understand what is happening with the application for a debate. Talking about your proposal. I have tabled this proposal again with the aim of ensuring that all people who have applied for it receive an end-of-life allowance. It's about two categories... at least two categories of employees, i.e. self-employed workers, who previously refused to receive the benefit of the State Revenue Service, as well as patent payers, who are still completely excluded from any support in a crisis situation. Unfortunately, my proposal was repeatedly rejected by the Commission, despite the fact that, at the previous meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the Minister for Welfare, Ramona Petraviča, promised that this issue would be addressed and decided positively in the Cabinet. This has not yet happened and these people still do not receive adequate support from the state. I hope that the Members of the Saeima are aware and that they understand the situation in the country, that they still understand that members of any legal tax regime must have the same rights as members of other tax regimes, with the support of the State. Therefore, my proposal is for anyone who participates in our economic life in Latvia to have this right to receive a minimum drop-out allowance of EUR 180. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U13	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U14	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Three legal tax regimes in Latvia – royalties, patent fees and self-employed. Three legal regimes where you are currently, unless you are a fascist and try to get on your head, you will most probably not get a stop benefit, despite the fact that such a regime is used mostly in the cultural, creative sectors, sometimes others. But these are sectors where the government by law and the Saeima by law have denied to organise cultural events, denied to earn money with work and now with a light hand... says that you will also not receive at least the minimum benefit for idling aid. And yes, Mrs Ločmele-Lunova has already mentioned that self-employed workers, if they have been refused a severance grant by the State Revenue Service, cannot qualify for a severance grant. Authors, if not registered as non-compulsory self-employed, are also unable to receive an end-of-life benefit, and patent-payers also go through the nose. Colleagues, two and a half months have passed – two and a half months! – and just a few weeks until the end of the emergency. And you haven't solved this situation! For a very large number of employees in Latvia who currently have no means of subsistence (I am not talking at all about the fact that the cultural sector, for example, Lithuania has already twice decided to support various types of measures, Estonia already provided grants at the beginning of March to those who remained without a living.) ... We are not only unable to collect and make these decisions, which we have been talking about for a long time, but we are not even able to secure a minimum income for these people. I call for this proposal to be supported in order to have a minimum income of at least EUR 180, and indeed the Minister for Welfare, Ramona Petraviča, comes to a lie. She called for the rejection of similar opposition proposals at the Commission meeting two weeks ago, claiming that the government would immediately take a decision and that there would be a solution. Two weeks have passed. There's silence. As it was withdrawn from the government's agenda, it has not returned. Ramona Petraviča, please comment on the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U15	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U16	Good morning, colleagues! Yes, I could confirm what the opposition is saying. This issue has also been discussed and discussed in the Economic Group of John Reir, in which I am also present. And it was agreed there that, let us say, there is this minimum EUR 180 aid for patent payers, with the addition that they have worked for six months in this regime, paid these patent fees. And I also assure you that the Minister for Welfare promised several weeks ago that it would be arranged at government level. Several weeks have passed, several government sittings; this has still not been resolved. I followed government sittings. And what I can assure us of on our side today we will vote against, but if this has not changed in the week, we will come forward with a proposal that is similar in nature to the next Covid-19 law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U18	Yes, good morning, colleagues! On this proposal, I think... I ask everyone to think about it. This situation, where people have limited job opportunities, is now more than two months old. At the same time, these people to whom this would apply are, in my opinion, the most vulnerable people, if they have opted for such a tax regime, if they are... It is precisely for such vulnerable people that it is also intended to stimulate small businesses in some way. At the same time, they are, however, taxpayers, and at the moment there is no concrete support from the state at all. In a way, I look at this example of Ireland – EUR 350 per week... They have this payment and who... of course, in Ireland, other income and so on, but yet this payment... it does not, in particular, sort to whom it is due, to whom it does not belong. And now they do this other side when they just start watching – builders return to work, so we don't apply this more to the construction sector, and so on. We're thinking for two months about who to apply, and it's those groups that are all-- They are more likely to suffer, and they also have to be provided with these minimum reserves in the longer term at all. And, in my view, the government is now at risk by the fact that our national airline, which, without any debate and with the support of Parliament, has counted several hundred million, really Latvian... citizens would start using these services and travel to countries where they can still receive some support. And Ireland, England – it will be, in my opinion, the first choice where people will go, and that would be very... It would be very, very bad if people started using this opportunity. And I would ask you to think about it. Mr Kakiņš recently said that this crisis, which really is for us... We are only at the very beginning still, it is great to read news about all kinds of billions and billions of grants support programmes and how we save, and the success story of our Latvia, but this one looks more and more like a devastating story to the people of Latvia. And that's why I would call on you to choose... choose and go on that path so that we support the people of Latvia now, not sometime, after two months, when, unfortunately, we will no longer have anything to support here, and those people will either have gone completely into the shadow economy, or they will have already left Latvia. And I don't know how we're going to look for them... back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U19	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U20	Yeah, thank you. Hello, colleagues! Hello, community! I ask Members to support this proposal because there are not only wealthy people in Latvia, but also disadvantaged people. They really are asking for help now and asking for support. The Supreme State officials have announced that Latvia is stopping and moving towards the Scandinavian model of countries. The Scandinavian business model and the model of political equipment provide for a very high social responsibility policy, including ensuring the interests of the most vulnerable groups. In my opinion, providing those workers with a minimum level of support in a crisis situation could be the little half promise in the action and direction of the Scandinavian model of political and social society. In my opinion, when the political forces do not give up additional funding for political parties, at the same time preventing those with the lowest income from receiving the benefit to a minimum, that is not only unfair, but also immoral. I think that this proposal should be supported. And more. Indeed, the Ministry of Welfare does not actually perform its social protection functions and does not safeguard the interests of the most vulnerable. Of course, it is not in the interests of the political coalition to support... the weakest and most fragmented political force, whose area of responsibility is precisely the area of prosperity... Therefore, by also demonstrating to the voters that the support of KPV LV is neither meaningful nor unreasonable. Mrs Petraviča himself is also not active in the protection of the interests of the most vulnerable people or in supporting them... to support all groups of the population with some drastic and cardinal proposals. She merely repeats what the representatives of the same political force have already decided, such as the New Unity, Development/About! or the New Conservative Party, without prejudice to those categories which they should protect as the responsible ministry. I therefore ask my colleagues from the CPV LV, whose area of responsibility is prosperity, to take care of the welfare of all citizens, especially those who are most vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U21	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U22	Please combine the times of the debate. I'm sorry, could I combine the times of the debate? I ask you to combine the times of the debate. Tell me it's technically impossible for you to break the parliamentary roll... Number one.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U23	Mr Gobzem, you can apply for a debate once again on the speaker's list.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U24	The other thing. I applied twice for a procedure. It's been 20 minutes. You've still not responded. Thirdly. In the centre of the Saeima Presidium, a private company representative. Fourth. I didn't go online on my computer. You were told this, you (A sound break.) ... technical break, but... or something like that, there's always a technical break. You do not in any way respond to any objections relating to technical matters. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) Another thing. Rights and duties in the Republic of Latvia are (Sound interruption.) ... In particular, unfair exploitation of its rights and obligations is illegal. What you are doing at the moment is illegal acts. You've abused your service position. Misuse of professional status shall be punishable, including by criminal penalties. And I'll explain. In an emergency, the use of emergency tools may be required when an exceptional need so requires. The majority of Members are currently present in the Saeima room, and no extraordinary situation is possible. The situation does not require any exceptional solutions. I haven't heard the whole beginning of this sitting because I'm in the Saeima room (and it's also filmed)... I got a technician working on a computer. And you didn't respond to this situation... Why am I participating in today's Saeima sitting? I believe that the e-Samima (which is such a consultation place for Members) is unlegitimate in every vote. I will not take part in any of the votes. I will take part in the procedure and debate on all the issues, because I can consult on the Internet but, in line with the roll of order of the Saeima, which has not been lifted and which cannot be revoked by the Speaker of the Saeima or by the President of the Saeima or by the President of the Saeima or by the President of the Saeima... I am asking for all the rights of my Member that I have with the Constitution and the parliamentary roll. Without this right, the interests of tens of thousands of my constituents are violated. There have been far more voters than most of the Members of the position. So, Mrs. Moore, look in your e-mail. There are several e-mails with a request for a procedure. And respond once when Members call on you to react! It is your duty as Speaker of the Saeima! In response, you're breaking the law! And by the end. Everyone (A Sound Break) ... It is also a violation of Article 22 of the Satversme, because I cannot make sure how the Member Neighbours will vote, knowing his inclination to illegal acts. I cannot know how the coalition will vote, knowing its tendencies towards corruption. I can't see it! And it's not an open parliamentary sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U25	Dear colleagues, I have to inform you. Thank you to the e-Parliament developers who have also resolved the merger of the time of the debate. It is also possible to combine the time of the debate at the moment. Member Gobzem can speak for two more minutes. (Applause) Let us be patient, let us listen! Please, speak!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U26	Mrs. Moore, it turns out that after one sitting... At the last sitting you couldn't join the time, now you've been out there on the table. You, as Speaker of the Saeima, had to ensure this at the previous sitting. Now, suddenly, when it begins to talk about it, it turned out that it could be done. Mrs. Moore, it's a groaning for a nation! Not for me. What you are doing, Mrs Mūrniece, is not only a legal nihilism, it is an obvious ridicule of the law, of the Constitution, of the parliamentary roll of order. And, thank God, all this is recorded. Thank God, the whole society sees what you're doing! Because you sent Members that there is no time to unite. When (A Sound Break) ... suddenly you can put together time immediately. Very good! Very beautiful! We are now seeing what else can be done. Perhaps you could tell us why a Member should apply for a procedure using some cards. Or by registering in the sitting – cards. I would remind you that it was found on the Hague Tribunal that it was a crime that made the Jews digital, because people are people, not numbers. This hall also includes not only coalition robots, but also people with their identity, not cards. And you all know them. There's... in the previous sitting was present, in this sitting is not a person with very great problems with vision. And you didn't give him any support, no help. You are saying that it is no matter if it is his problem. This is a violation of human rights! And another thing I'll tell you. You're proud to have an e-Samima here. I will tell you that for years there is a remote electronic system of courts, but it provides human rights, that is, if a person goes to court, he does not have to go to some e-environment. He's being heard like he's...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U27	Thank you. The debate is over. The combined debate is also over. Dear colleagues, See... Thank you to system developers, maintainers who also help to address various technical issues. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U28	Hello, honorary Saeima! Given the attitude of the ruling coalition towards our colleague's proposals, it is logical to me that what position can be answered, where have we spent EUR 4.5 billion, which has already been said many times by the Prime Minister? And, of course, a logical question: how do we use the next 2.9 billion? I don't understand. If we can't help now those people who are right now waiting for their help... Where the money... And for what do we even need to borrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U29	Thank you. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U30	Hello, colleagues! Now it has become clear in the public space that the emergency situation will come to an end, now it will be stopped soon. Now is the time when we need to understand, both as a position, as an opposition, as a Member, and as a society as a whole, what the lessons we will be learning from this crisis and from this time of crisis. And for a long time, I have not spoken about issues relating to the sharing of benefits and aid, but at the moment, there are a number of statements that the government and the Minister for Welfare, Mrs Petraviča, may not have acted in any way in favour. I would like to strongly deny this and return to the talks that are the lesson that we will learn. On the one hand, maybe I'm going to exaggerate a little, but when marking that common space, it was that Latvia... Latvian... The Latvian nation's lifestyle has been – if you work, then you live better than those who don't work. And what do we learn from the crisis? I think it would be good if we learned from the crisis – those who have worked, those who work, those who will work in the future will live better than those who do not. That's just how it should be. But the situation at the moment is not clear, because the government and the Minister for Welfare have long tried to get the support of those who have paid taxes in good faith, those who cannot work right now because of the crisis, and those who will continue to work in the future, knowing that their work will benefit them and their families. And where we are now – we have reached an assessment of which we are entitled to support. Should those who work, work and work be supported, or should anyone who breathes? And this will be a big question for us as a society. Will we come out of the crisis, realising that work brings benefits through the distribution of taxes to the state? Will we get through, realizing that if you breathe, you will still be supported? And then its future choices are becoming more and more complex. We do not want those who pay taxes to ask, “Why did I pay them?” And that is the most difficult issue that could prevent us from developing in the future as a society. And I come back to the fact that we have to ask these questions as a public; these questions are not issues of position or opposition. Because in my position suddenly I see Gati Eglīte, who wants to share money just because someone breathes. And it's not a good thing. It is against the Latvian people's lifestyle. I come back to the basic question – what are we going to get out of this crisis? I would hope that we are leaving this crisis with an understanding that people who work live better and receive services than those who only receive benefits. Thank you. We will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U31	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U32	Colleagues! Let's say that, over... Much thought after the previous speaker’s speech. The conscience of the Latvian people. Undoubtedly, it is, and I do not intend to look for what it is and what is the real answer to this question, but I want to hope that it is clearly not a ticket to Ireland or England, which has unfortunately been used by very many Latvians. And this is a very big challenge for all of us – to get them back. But if you ask whether support is due to everyone who breathes, my answer is yes. My answer is that yes, all those who breathe should be supported in this situation, just as other countries have done. They support absolutely everyone. Because when we are in trouble (and there is a disaster at the moment), we have, by law, limited a very large number of areas, very large... people's freedom is very limited and their ability to work, their ability to earn. Instead, if 10 people enter the store, they get one now, if they come in at all... Many sectors are simply at zero level in their development. And at such moments, it must help all – absolutely all must help! In contrast, we are receiving huge promises and visions of some billions of aid, which unfortunately do not reach the people. And it would be very regrettable if people started to buy tickets and leave and if the country did not do everything possible to keep them. This is short-term support that is needed, and many countries are giving it. And it is very convenient to sit on these walls, in beautiful rooms, of course, and to judge how right it is to pay taxes, but people who are victims of this system are unfortunately suffering outside these walls.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U33	Thank you. Member Julia Stepanenko has applied. We now have a debate on the proposal. Does Julia Stepanenko want to debate the proposal or talk about the procedure?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U34	I sent you an e-mail. Just like you asked for it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U35	Yeah, thank you. So let us talk about the procedure after this proposal has been examined. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U36	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Those who say I lie. Colleagues, you are not present at the Cabinet of Ministers, so don't mislead the public. Two weeks ago, the Ministry of Culture had submitted amendments to the Cabinet for self-employed persons and patent payers. The question was withdrawn from the agenda. And last week it was not on the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Ministry of Welfare is not the Ministry which determines the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, this week, we presented amendments from the Ministry of Welfare in the Group of the Minister of Finance – those that were agreed with the Ministry of Finance, setting the benefit for self-employed persons for whom the State Revenue Service has refused the benefit due to the fact that there are calculations in the audit of more than 1500 euros or that this calculation is less than 1500 euros, but the businessman has not agreed with the State Revenue Service on the time limit for paying taxes, as well as all those who have been charged with a fine of more than 150 euros or... if EUR 500 per year. Therefore, these provisions have been submitted and approved by the Ministry of Finance. I would remind all those who are not granted a benefit because of circumstances that we have also created a crisis benefit for municipalities from the Ministry of Welfare, in which we, as a state, participate with co-financing, and it is possible for everyone to turn to... receive a crisis benefit if the person is in difficulty due to the consequences of the Covid-19 virus. The Ministry of Welfare was also the one that called for the introduction of an end-of-life assistance allowance, so that all those to whom the State Revenue Service refuses to receive the benefit, as well as set this minimum threshold of 180 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U37	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U38	Good afternoon! Colleagues, I very much hope that Mr Zakatistov is an atheist, because I imagine that he comes to the church of his church and tries to say something like that that he permitted to talk about today. But even if he said so, I thought he would be advised to read the Bible. If he does not believe in the Bible, I could recommend that Mr Zakatistova, who is Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, read the European Commission's recommendations to Latvia in the context of the Covid-19 crisis. As is known, there are several recommendations there. One point is to support Latvian medicine, however. Paragraphs 2 and 2 – take immediate action in the field of social assistance. The European Commission literally referred back to Latvia for this 180 euro, precisely because it still denied even this 180 euro to people who have not made sufficient tax payments. This is pointed out by the European Commission. Read, please, instructions from the European Commission from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Not to mention that once again Latvia was told that the minimum subsistence allowance does not coincide with the minimum benefit guaranteed by the state of Latvia. On the reality: should we only support those who pay taxes? I'll tell you the real situation. Last time, you, the honourable coalition, did not support the...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U39	Colleagues, speaking time is over. The second speaking time has also come to an end. The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U40	Colleagues, and especially the Parliamentary Secretary, Mr Zakatistov! I understand your desire to teach and raise – it is a low tax payer or a non-payer... It is an infection that sticks as soon as a person crosses the threshold of the Ministry of Finance. You're there, obviously you're working a lot, and you don't have time to contact the real world to find out how people are living. Raising needs to be done in a normal situation. When a person has a choice, not a warlike situation, in an emergency, when a state has banned a person from working. For healthy sectors, the state has been banned by law from working. There is no possibility of earning either in the envelope or legally. In particular, we are talking about the creative sector, the restaurant, the hospitality sector, the tourism sector. I think you know it as well as I do. What to do to someone who wants to, but can't work? You can't make it. In this situation, the country also refuses the payment of EUR 180. It is not a grant in the amount of a thousand or several thousand. This is a benefit that does not even match the minimum subsistence. That's what you need to understand. You give 250 million with a light hand, with no explanation for airBaltic and spend €180. Mr. Zakatistov! The Latvian lifestyle also says – given to the giver surrenders. If you do not think about economic factors either, it is worth reading Galbreita and other economists who, in my opinion, are untiring about what is right now. People must be given the resources to invest, capitalise, so that they can use them and not sit on money and support only large corporations. Then at least really think about the Latvian lifestyle – given to the giver surrenders! Go back to trust or loss of trust.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U41	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U42	Yeah, thank you. I understood very well Mr Zakatistov's demagogy. In the absence of arguments, the division of society and the play on particularly sensitive attitudes and situations begin. I also think that the instructive tone of a man accused of serious financial crimes sounds very, very dubious. And pathetic. And more. Mrs Petraviča, speaking of her responsibility, is in fact simply not taking responsibility, but is taking it to the municipalities, which are supposed to provide the benefit that the Ministry of Welfare will offer as co-responsible and co-cofinancing. It is simply a cowardly act and a transfer of responsibility to another local authority. Next question. Mrs. Petraviča herself very well understands (whether she should understand and know that the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations governing idle benefits are two and different. And there is a different approach to those who are self-employed and those who, as an employer, receive a stop-free allowance. The sieve, which concerns self-employed workers – it is much higher, unfair and unequivalent to the sieve, which is reflected in the second regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Mrs. Petravičas as responsible... She has not paid attention to it and has not corrected the different approach and legal injustice of self-employed workers in these two regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U43	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U44	Dear colleagues, Mr. Zakatistov! I think that on behalf of the opposition as a whole, I would like to thank you very much, Mr Zakatistova. You really are a symbol of this coalition and the right face, Mr Zakatistov. And thank you very much for showing us all this real face now. I do not even want to focus on your speech and refuting it or how. I think... I even call on all colleagues and all the media to just make that your speech, those your words... simply show not only your constituents, Mr Zakatistov, but all the people of Latvia in the glory of this speech, because your words, Mr Zakatistov, speak much better than any arguments of opposition. Thank you for your directness and the real face – the true face of this coalition, Mr Zakatistov. Good for you!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U45	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U46	Yeah, well (A sound break.) ... who is following this debate, I think they can see that the coalition is becoming increasingly lying and arrogant and increasingly hostage. Unfortunately, in this situation, the hostages of their arrogance and lies are all of us, the whole of Latvian society. Even this legendary speech we heard from... and this argument we hear from the politicians of power. Perhaps you have not read this proposal at all. Perhaps you need to remind you once again of what this proposal is about. This proposal is for them to... all those who have fairly paid the taxes contained in the legal tax scheme that they are entitled to this minimum aid of €180. So it's not... So you can agree that it is true: who has worked honestly and paid taxes fairly would be entitled to this support – just as you also spoke, Mr Zakatistov, and as this proposal is about. What you have done yourself – you have made it possible for a part that has paid those taxes in a single tax scheme to qualify for this aid, another part that has chosen your own legal tax scheme in good faith, you say: “No! We will not pay them!” You're... And you see it as the right approach. And what is amusing is that we are talking here about legal schemes, people who have really done all this. Mr Zakatistova, you, as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, do not even understand that. You know, that's the feeling that you're like... has already become a raven, who sits in his cave and sees nothing at all. So I just want to ask: “Bye, what are you doing?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ (Laughter) Yeah... Because, well, what you spoke to yourself – you listen to yourself or give to your colleagues, and let them appreciate what you say. Go on. If we're talking about it... So Mr Eglitis said that they were ready to support the patent payers. But patent-payers are just one of the groups that are currently discriminated against. What about self - care? Why won't you support them? So you've come up with some kind of... to continue this discrimination. Why, then, are you not prepared to solve this situation fairly, courageously and wisely in relation to everyone, so that all who have paid taxes fairly and who are now denied the opportunity to work... Because to a large extent it is the power that has denied even the same... the same cultural workers, many in healthcare who had been permanently denied the opportunity to work and provide their services. Why not think about them? Go on. Mrs. Petravič! You just said you were lying. You will have an excellent opportunity to prove whether you lie or not, because if it was a Cabinet of Ministers, which made it impossible for you to support this EUR 180 here, you will immediately have the opportunity and you will show by your vote whether you lie and hypocritically or are responsible for your words. I call on all the public to follow, there will be a vote now, see what this vote will be. Thank you. And may God stand before you!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U47	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U48	Dear colleagues, I think it is very positive that at last we are talking not about bureaucratic finances, but about value, about fundamental principles. It was really very interesting to me to know that, in Mr Zakatistov's opinion, a fundamental value such as solidarity does not belong to the life of the Latvian people. Mr. Zakatistov! You are, of course, right: who pays more taxes, which, therefore, earns even more, it also lives better. But that's not what it's about. It is about survival as such, not as to whether a person will live better, but as to whether a person will live at all. Whether the breather will continue to breathe or not, despite the fact that he really worked and paid taxes fairly using completely legal methods. I call on you, Mr Zakatistov, to be consistent. As a responsible official at the Ministry of Finance, you can propose to stop paying benefits for disabled people, for example, because disabled people do not pay taxes. Maybe let us stop paying pensions because pensioners pay taxes, but very few and pensions are disproportionately high. And let's remember... If we live by the principles of Darwin that only the most powerful survives, then let us remember that world experience. In several cultures, the elderly were simply taken to the forest by horns during the winter so that they could leave the world calmly. And I... I... It seems to me that at the moment the Ministry of Finance under your leadership may already be preparing a massive purchase of horns. Then it would really be very consistent. So we shouldn't be shy. And I, too, want to join in this thanks, and thank you, Mr Zakaistov, for finally calling it the right name, but I do not want to agree that a fundamental value such as solidarity is foreign to my country and my people. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U49	Mrs Stepanenko, you want to speak in the debate... or the procedure here was unclear... In the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U50	I have applied as well for a procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this system has recorded it, if not, then let us try... We'll keep talking to the computer. If we are talking about what is happening today in all this debate, then, yes, my colleagues are quite rightly, of course they have all the criticisms to Mr Zakatistova. His speech was really strange if he didn't say more, but I think he's already regretted what he said because there's no logic in it. But please also look at what Member Gatis Eglitis said. He said that the proposal was good and that it was meant, and that it should continue to be thought about, but on the other hand... either, the current bid and the current UK offer are once again not voting in favour of the opposition proposal, but sometime later to submit their own. Of course, we know very well how it works, that nothing will be presented, that nothing will be corrected, and this opposition proposal has unfortunately been used to establish relations between the JPV LV and the UK. I would therefore call on my fellow Members to draw attention to what the other colleagues from the coalition are doing, think they speak, because we will also see a vote from all the other colleagues from the coalition. We will see the vote on "Developing!" , which is now silent because they are probably not affected at all by this issue. They're just happy about the e-system and the e-Europe, and that's all. That's all they can think about. That is why I would ask Member Gati Eglīte to tell you now why he does not want to support this proposal right today and what it is... where is the problem – to support proposal 2 today and to solve the problem now. Because in essence we already see that this Covid-19 law will soon end – as we understand. So it will be transformed into a different law, and part of the norms will disappear from that law. The emergency situation will soon end – how do we also hear if? And we... Mrs. Petravičs, we cannot participate in the Cabinet meetings – we are simply not allowed to attend these sittings, no one invites us, neither do we allow us to participate in those sittings, nor do we allow us to participate in working groups. That is why what we are doing now is making proposals. That's why we're calling Gati Eglīte... I call on Gati Eglīte to say why he cannot support this proposal at this time with his colleagues if he already feels that the JPV LV has deceived and does not try to address the issue in any way. So, solve the question! Please, let us address this issue with the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U51	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U52	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I would like to remind certain speakers today (especially from the coalition, who may not regularly use the opportunity to listen wisely) that only what we have done for others – as Albert Einstein once said. Perhaps it will also be interesting for those who have the knowledge of philosophy. When talking about this particular proposal, I would like to support it, because I would very much like all the servants of the people – those who are here and those who are not – to always remember that they represent thousands of people, not themselves. And that by our work, our speeches or silence we are responsible for the welfare of the population and quality legislation. I am in favour of both the level of prosperity and quality legislation. Now, during the time of the coronavirus crisis, it is particularly topical, significant and important. That is why we must all work to make our legislative framework more understandable to people (proposed by the applicant Regina Ločmele-Lunova) and to make it clear why any proposal has been adopted. This proposal is to be welcomed, as there are clear inconsistencies and shortcomings in existing legislation. I therefore thank Regina and call on the entire Saeima to support this proposal and not to postpone this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U53	Thank you. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U54	Hello, honourable Members! Now I may first turn to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Jānis Butan. I wanted to inform you that the Commission has decided twice and requested full, detailed information on the use of airBaltic 286 million, and it is still ashamed to look at the documents that are currently being sent from the Ministry of Transport, with detailed Class 9 report reports, say so, and no figures where this money goes directly. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, certainly, when this crisis comes to an end and it takes some time, we will only get to the head, where this money has gone and is spent. It is therefore very important to exercise parliamentary control over all these funds, not only on airBaltic but also on other uses. That's why I call you again as... As if that party is the one that I would also ask for a detailed, reinforced attention to be paid to this issue. The next thing I wanted to say is that I also said to Mrs Murniece, and also to the Bureau... I am still waiting for an answer from you – what you will do in the future to prevent this type of procurement when won... e-system developers of this type? And you can also ask them back... to those representatives who are not accessible to the legal address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U55	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what can be explained or added?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U56	In the Commission, this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Member Lochmeles-Lunova! Please, let's vote! On – 29, against – 53, abstained – 6. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Ms Jūlija Stepanenko applied for the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Member Julia Stepanenko. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I too... on the procedure!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U58	Several colleagues have applied for the procedure. Thank you. Also Aldis Gobzems, and has been sent by e-mail... two times. We have also, now, activated this application button on the agenda of this e-Samima in your e-System. On the procedure, I would like to say that, in fact, I would like to record the fact that we are now taking part in the second sitting of the Saeima, which is testing the eEurope system, because, as we read in the eEurope procurement contract, at least three sittings of the Saeima must be held without critical errors for the adoption of the system. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please bear in mind that we are not currently participating in the legislative process, but simply accepting a good that must then be paid by the supplier 30 per cent of the contract amount under the contract. We see that this system has not been fully developed. We also see that there is no thought of those Members who have a limited opportunity to take part, for example, in the work of computers with visual impairment. We see that there is no thought in this system about the fact that Members who do not have the possibility of entering an e-ID card are not able to attend the Saeima meeting at all, even if they come here physically to the Saeima's meeting room and try to address the Saeima's staff, Members and the Speaker of the Saeima. When a Member forgets his card...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U59	Thank you. Thank you. The speaking time is over. The name of the Member, Aldi Gobzem, who wants to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U60	Colleagues! Article 22 of the Satversme states that sittings of the Saeima are open. You do not see me at this parliamentary sitting, just as I do not see the UK or CPV LV Members. And the reason why they are discovered is that I could see whether the Member Nemir voted instead of Zakatistov and whether the Member Feldman voted instead of Juša. We don't see this in the Saeima. First. Secondly. I was at the previous Saeima sitting and would not be registered as being here. I was not given the word neither about procedure nor about everything else, even though I had applied for under the rule of the Saeima. And I would like to emphasise that electronic application or registration is not the only way, because the roll of order of the Saeima provides that, after registration, the representative of the Saeima Presidium checks that the Member is physically present in the room, after each registration. So... So in this particular case...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U61	Thank you. The speaking time is over. Thank you. Dear colleagues, We talked in very detail yesterday about the procedure, the fact that the Constitution is not violated when using this Internet tool. Also, the Rule of Conduct roller is not violated. Technical and all procedures are respected. And the Member who asked for special assistance is already provided and provided. So it's all going on, colleagues. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) It is very important that Members would also like to take part in and use this system themselves. Dear colleagues, At present, 95 Members have registered in the e-environment and we see that this system is working well. Let's keep going. Proposal No 3. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: "We do not see the vote as we vote! We don't see it! I can't see if Yuszs is voting... “) Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U62	Thank you. The proposal 3 therefore results from the draft law No. 701/Lp13... The Commission decided to include it in this draft law. This proposal makes technical clarifications to Article 51 of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U63	Members have not applied to debate and support proposal 3. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There is no – 86, against and abstains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U64	4. - MEP Bhutan's proposal. Changes are foreseen in the application of the vehicle operating tax to lorries with a gross mass of more than three thousand kilograms and their trailers and semi-trailers. Partly supported and included 5. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U65	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Butane's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 2, against – 80, refrained – 2. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Member Zarins has asked for the results of the vote on proposal 2 of this bill. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) The Members therefore want to vote. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Imposition: “On procedure!” Depp. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the results of the vote on the proposal 2 of the draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19”! Please, let's vote! On – 26, against – 60, abstained – 2. Colleagues, therefore, this proposal - to read the results of the vote - has been rejected. Mr Aldis Gobzems, a Member, wishes to speak about the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Member Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U66	Cannot apply for a procedure! How can you hear that (not clear to hear.) ... when about the procedure, then you can't hear! How does that work? At what point you (not heard.) ... Vote... You hear the word “vote”, but the word “on procedure”... you are deaf. Then go to your ear doctor (not clear.) Mrs. Moore!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U67	Please turn off the microphone for Member Gobzem! I would like to point out to all Members, including Member Gobzem. You have sent an application to speak about the procedure. This application has been received and you have spoken about the procedure. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate names.) Your right to speak about the procedure is respected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate names.) Please turn on the microphone for Evia Papulei, who wants to talk about the procedure. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “New Questions!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U68	Hello! I really want to ask a question and perhaps get an answer if not immediately, then in the process of developing the system. I understood that in the previous sitting, which was also held remotely, including here in the Chamber, there was agreement that all the issues, all the proposals, should be put to the vote. And in this case, even if no one demands a vote (the sound break.) ... And on this point, even if no one requests a vote, there must be a vote. I want to understand, is that so? If this is the case, then everything is clear: there will be a vote on all the proposals in the future. But if this is not the case, I would like to get an opportunity over time, as every Member, if not staying in the Chamber, can ask for this vote if it is not offered. I hope that the two options or the two options are clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U69	Yes, thank you to Mrs Papule. We have agreed to vote on each of the proposals in the table, and that is what is happening. We shall continue to examine the draft law. Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U70	5. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal. That is why we are technically improving the proposal made by the Member, Bhutan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U71	Members have not applied for a debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 5. – the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There are no – 88, against and abstaining. The proposal is supported. Please turn on the microphone for Member Gobzem, who wants to talk about the procedure again!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U72	Yeah. Dear Society and Members of the Saeima! So when the floor of the Saeima calls the word "vote", the Speaker of the Saeima hears that word and requires Members to vote. When she calls “a procedure”, she doesn’t hear. Then you have to go to e-mail. When you enter an email, send it and want to apply, then technically you cannot press this login button from time to time. Technically, all this happens with a special lateness when Mrs Mūrniece has already gone ahead. That's one thing. The second case, which is inconceivable procedurally. How can it be verified during this sitting that those Members - or do they vote themselves - who are not present in the Saeima Chamber? How can we be sure that Feldman does not vote in the place of Zakatistov or in the place of Yušas? I can't make sure that's what no member of society can do. And again I repeat. Physical inspection of the presence of Members shall be an integral part of the roll of order of the Saeima. I was sitting last time, I wasn't tested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, We have talked about the procedure in a very detailed way. Each Member may apply for a procedure when Members, including Mr Gobzem or one of the others, send this application. It is also respected. — Dep. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) And that's what it's... given name. On the e-signature. So, colleagues, we are working on authentication with an e-signature and it is a very powerful authentication tool. Let us continue to examine the draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U74	6. – Commission proposal arising from Draft Law No. 701/Lp13. It is envisaged to supplement the law with a new article concerning the introduction of a European Union support instrument for reducing the risk of unemployment in an emergency. The Commission has partially supported and included 7. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U75	Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. – the proposal of the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! On – 5, against – 77, abstained – 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U76	The provisions mentioned in proposal 6 were improved and clarified by the Commission and created 7. – a Commission proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U77	Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. – the proposal of the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No. 83, no. 1, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U78	8 / 8 – Proposal by Members Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzem, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Papules, Smita and Svekova. Changes in the regulation of the end-of-life allowance are foreseen. As expressed by the Commission, this is a matter to be addressed in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U79	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U80	Colleagues! We will probably continue the same story that we started today. Here is a more detailed proposal for the self-employed. Last sitting, when we discussed the amendments to the Covid-19 law, we mentioned such groups as tax payers, such as sports teachers, coaches. They are still waiting for a solution from both Mr Riekstins, Mr Eglitis and all the other colleagues in the coalition, and they are not waiting for a solution. Everything is very simple. The regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have been written... provision is made for those self-employed workers who have been underpaid with a severance grant to receive a severance grant of EUR 180, but nothing is said about those self-employed workers who have been refused a severance grant. It is this group, these sports teachers who have paid less tax than the rules set out (i.e. a little more than EUR 10, for example, was rather than EUR 20, as the limit was set), who have now fallen through the sieve and are being ignored entirely from the coalition. Everything is very simple. You had to do this in the weeks... the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers had to be amended accordingly, providing that also those who have been refused a severance grant may apply for a severance grant. Also, what we see on the chart prepared by the Ministry of Welfare... This chart said that everyone – everyone! - who have not received benefits, may apply for a severance grant. Well, we have tested and in practice we see that this is not the truth. Unfortunately, it is this group that has acted in accordance with the law (now, as we have already debated proposal 2) that the whole of this group is currently waiting for a solution. Perhaps you have also promised many of these people who may have tried to write to you. However, no solution has been found. That is why we also put forward this proposal in order to... With the help of the Covid-19 bill, with these amendments... because we see that this Covid-19 bill is, of course, simply... Well, such a great legal, I don't know, now a lego constructor that puts in all the desires and things that have to be solved. I think there's nothing... there is no problem, neither is there any violation of the legal technique, if we in this proposal and in this draft law instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the relevant regulations and arrange this case. That is what we can do at the moment from the Saeima if the Cabinet does not hear, understand or want to understand. Thank you, colleagues. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U81	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U82	Dear Society! Let me understand. So no one protects self-employed in Latvia – the Saeima does not protect, coalition does not protect... because there's a lot of money, there's so much money that there's enough for PR campaigns. Ministry of Health PR campaign for 180 thousand. The winner – “Media Bridge”, Filips Rajevskis, Vņķele politologist. It is not long before time – Filips Rajevskis, the political scientist of Viņķele, receives an additional 40,000 from the same Ministry of Health. Yesterday I look at the “Media Bridge” and Vyņķele politologist receive PR campaign from the Disease Prevention and Control Centre for 120,000 time. The Cabinet announces an PR campaign of 250 thousand. And somewhere near there again is Philip Rajevski from the “Media Bridge”. And yes, by the way, Development/About! Egle Klevere, wife of Ginta Knoka, from Deep White, campaign leader. She also wins all, almost all, these competitions. But you, nation, you, self-employed persons, you have no money! You don't have to, because you haven't met any criteria, you're not close, you're not friends there... with, don't know, those who are gray cardinals in parties, or there are some other reasons. And it's a place for you, people! You're given a place. You have to be free of money, you have to fall in the knees, you have to pray, not as in Germany, where people simply set off... The government is helping, it is not in Latvia during the crisis. There are gentlemen in Latvia who now divide a lot of money between themselves. And it's a new form of business. Their form of business is called theft of the state. By the way, this e-platform was introduced by SIA, which even a few months ago had 15 euro share capital. Imagine your luck! First Parliament in the world! SIA with 15 euros – 15, not 15 thousand! The neighbor tells me to learn. He has already learned how to corrupt himself, how to pass on the voter, how to deal with all his other problems. Do not learn from such ones. And remember: the form of commercial “state stealing” is what you people have to stop! You! If you allow it... You're going very well. You allow, you suffer, you expect something to change that miracle and so on. You're watching television, where you're shown their PR campaigns together for almost 600 thousand, and you're not doing anything! You too, people, are responsible for the fact that you allow those in that coalition to laugh at you. You've been raging! You're not helping! They have a good state of emergency to help themselves. An emergency situation can become very rich, quickly becoming rich. Because there's a lot of money – there's four billion. They can be distributed to themselves. It can be distributed to Viņķele's political scientist Philip Rajevski and other close ones. The neighbor can also afford to ride now with the jeeps, since he became a coalition Member. He couldn't do it in the past. In the past, he had to pray for someone to buy a car. Perhaps he would do it now too. But that's what happens. It's because you're giving in, people! You have to stop letting yourself go! You need to start loving yourself and your country. You need to learn to do this, and the more you will love your country, the more you will want to defend it, the faster you will remove those who will laugh for you. And one more thing. These people promised to cancel the OIC at the forefront of the neighbourhood. Neighbours (intermediately) , who promised to cancel the OIK, now lousy in the Chamber, and he also yelled for you because you don't see. This sitting of the Saeima is no longer open. You can't see what's happening in the Saeima hall. You see only me right now. You don't see the whole Saeima hall. You cannot follow the sittings of the Saeima. And that is a violation of Article 22 of the Satversme. You have, people, you have to stop letting yourself climb on your head. Please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U83	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate after a break. Please do not remove authentication tools from computers yet. A quorum is registered before the break. Thank you. Quorum is registered. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U84	Dear colleagues, Let's get back to the Saeima sitting after the break. An application for a procedure has been received. Please turn on the microphone for Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U85	Firstly, I would like to thank all the technical staff of the Saeima, who, despite all the difficulties, are heroically trying to give this platform a human form, this platform for discussion, which is not the Saeima meeting. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the Bureau has received a request from a number of Members to enable them to attend the Saeima sitting without logoping on the e-platform. That is their right. Furthermore, I call on the Bureau to resolve the question of applying for a procedure. We can see that the Bureau, the Saeima administration, has not thought about such a thing as applying for a debate... on the procedure, has not ensured that this platform has a button that could help the Member to apply for a procedure. There is no such choice. Of course, there is also no choice – the registration button. Either it’s some kind of money saving, or it’s not thinking: “We’ll think about it next, we’ll see what’s going to happen next.” But, my fellow Members, I call on you to record now. And it is very good that it is also recorded in the Saeima debate and in the verbatim record that there are several Members of the Saeima who had asked... asked the Bureau to provide them with an opportunity to speak about the procedure without standing in the e-Parliament.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U86	Thank you. I'm having a debate... So the time has come to speak about the procedure. Colleagues! We're all working in the e-Saami. We have talked about the procedure for a long time and in detail. Let us continue to examine the draft law. Please, name on behalf of the Commission, Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U87	So we remained on proposal 8, which has been rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U88	Colleagues! The debate was on this proposal. Please restore the list of debates. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U89	Colleagues! The proposal. What we need to understand – we are not talking about shadow kings, we are not talking about tax payers or some VAT schemers, we are talking about athletes, craftsmen, artists and many other professions, where people do not work in a big company, but employ themselves, they are self-employed. And it is true that the regulation currently in force provides that if the State Revenue Service refuses to grant a severance grant, such a person is also not entitled to the severance grant. If less than EUR 180 is granted as a final benefit, the difference may still be awarded to the National Social Insurance Agency, but if refused at all, the person shall remain without income of any kind. Those criteria that have been established are quite easy to meet. Criteria... One of the criteria is, for example, the payment of national social security contributions of EUR 20 per month. The current arrangements provide that a mandatory obligation is to pay 5 per cent of the state social insurance contribution for pension provision. It follows that the 20 per cent, which represents 5 per cent of the total income, means that the self-employed person should earn a very large amount of money to qualify at all. A large part of those self-employed people, especially in the field of art, culture, also in the field of sport, are people who do not earn much that they earn so that they can survive. And then we punish them and leave them without income. The Minister for Welfare, Ramona Petraviča, said that she is the one who has fought to provide idolatry relief benefits. Then I repeat: this is one concrete example where there is a hole where you leave a very large part of society without any support. If the Minister says that there is no way to influence the government's agenda, it is not true. I would really be pleased if the Minister had asked him to put the matter on the agenda at one of the meetings of the government. Of course, other colleagues may not support. The question is whether Ramona Petraviča did so at all. You also have the unique possibility that you sit on two chairs. You're not just a minister, you're a member of the Saeima. It was you who, at the sitting of the Saeima Commission on such a proposal, was very similar to the proposal, but a few weeks ago you argued that it should not be supported, because the government will come with a solution right away. Instead of voting 'for', not even abstaining, you argued that it was not necessary to support such a proposal. This is, in fact, a ‘no’ for all the parts of the company that this hole leaves without income in the end-of-life benefit scheme. Colleagues! Government and coalition colleagues! You have now been given a mandate and time. What we see is that time is running very, very fast, but summer and government support for those who need it most, as it does, is not coming. For my part, I would also like to say that at least a Member... The coalition Member, Gatty Egly, cares. He also raised this issue in committee sittings on several occasions, and I understand that the working groups are also talking about it. But without being concerned, however, I think it would also be important to ensure the result. Three months will soon have passed in an emergency, and I will remind you that a survey was carried out at the beginning of this year – I will remind you again! – which said that 29.3 percent of Latvians have no savings at all. If they are out of their monthly income, they have no means to live with them. And 40.9 percent of them are for three months' survival. It's about to take three months.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U90	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U91	Dear colleagues, I'll show you... Well, well, we've got screens now... I will show you the infographics of the Ministry of Welfare, which states that the fourth step for the self-employed is... who can apply for an end-of-life benefit... These are those for whom the SRS refused to grant a soft pay. They are granted a soft grant of EUR 180 and an additional EUR 50 per dependent child per month. This is an official material of the Ministry of Welfare, and you can find it on the Internet. What do I mean? I would like to say that this material misleads the public, because we see that the Cabinet of Ministers regulations do not provide for such a case. Everything in the infographics is very beautiful, but if a person tries to address the SRS and apply for the Late Assistance Allowance, indicating that he has been refused this Late Allowance, of course he receives a refusal because the Cabinet Regulations do not provide for such a situation. Colleagues! If you cannot write these amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations in the government, we can help you, therefore we invite you to correct the situation with these amendments in the law. And I am referring in particular to my colleague, Gata Eglišs, who may have heard this problem and who is perhaps ready to deal with it, and I hope that today he will vote in favour of this proposal. That would be logical. Because if he does not vote in favour of this proposal, then all he said is, of course, absolutely irrelevant. I call on you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U92	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U93	Hello! I would remind you that these were the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 179. We had the Saeima sitting, in parallel with the press conference of Prime Minister Kariņš, where he proudly announced that this was EUR 180 for all those who were previously refused. We shared this message on social networks. People were really happy. However, it turns out that these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will enter into force only a week later. Then we waited a long time for them to come into force. And then questions emerged from people... But the State Revenue Service says: “Nothing! If you are a self-employed person and if you have been refused in the past, then there will be nothing!” Why Are You Misleading Society? Those accusations were for us – for the opposition. Then I really took a look at that, and I read this point that does not allow this opportunity; then we tried to understand whether it really really really means that these people will not get this 180 euros. It turns out - yes! Then we tried to contact the State Revenue Service so that they specifically motivated why people were refused this allowance. And the answer from SRS is simple, one against one, extract from the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. No other interpretation! If you now enter two words “laws” and “Covid-19” into the search system, you will open... Website Laws.lv... Document 161. 161! I bet that only a few Members know and know all their legislation... the regulatory package adopted by the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers during the crisis. A do we want people to be aware of all this, so that they can follow the rules of the MK when they enter into force?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And so on. One real story. A self-employed person has worked as a guide in the tourism sector, which we deny by law. She very much hoped for support from the state. Idle allowance... These MC provisions, which are the subject of the proposal in question... This opportunity is denied to her. She says: “What do I do if I... ?” Moreover, she cannot receive a crisis benefit in the municipality because she owns a car. ( Mrs. Petraviča sends everyone to municipalities.) May she try to get some benefit from the municipality once! Does she have an idea of how this process is going?) She says: “OK, I’m going out now... I will now write that I am giving up my self-employed status! I want to join... either, register as an unemployed person in the State Employment Agency.’ I told her to call there first. Then she found out that she had nothing to do with it. The only thing she now deserves from the country is the status of an unemployed person – without any benefit. This is a concrete example of what you did with people who are breathing! Then maybe let us sort out all people in those who breathe, pay taxes (those that the government considers to be taxes), and those who breathe but have paid not as much as they should, in the opinion of the government. Not in accordance with Latvian law... This proposal is only part of the injustice resulting from the operation of the government and coalition during this period. But let us at least correct that injustice. Once again, we call on you to vote in favour of the proposal, which will correct your error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U94	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U95	As I understand from the vote... tables, this proposal that the self-employed are entitled to a retirement allowance has not been supported by the Commission. This means that the coalition Members have voted against this proposal. Then I have a question for the coalition Members. If they're not just... here do not sit as simple blind voting buttons, then one of the coalitions should apply and justify why you are against this proposal. Why do people who have worked in the legal tax regime, who have paid taxes and who, at the Government's request, had no longer had the right to do business, earn, pay these taxes, which had no chance of doing so – why they... Why do you think they do not have the benefit? Just give a logical, reasonable explanation to the whole society! To make it clear to the general public how you care about the country, how you care about Latvian society and how competent you are! And do you really have what you mentioned when you took the oath – your conscience and understanding of what you are doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U96	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U97	I wanted to ask the coalition – do you have any solution at all so that you can quickly help someone rather than quickly figure out how to refuse help? You are now working as such a classic, bureaucratic, cynical institution. You will come up with hundreds of arguments why people don't help people vote against, and you won't come up with any arguments why people help. Well, if you don't like this particular proposal to support, for example, self-employed people, then where is your alternative proposal at this sitting to move forward quickly? If you say it's not well prepared... Even though you don't say anything at all. You have not taken part in the debate. You're e-Deputies, e-Robots. Actually, in your place... Mr. Cyril Solovyov could make a... Well, automatic... the button that the decisions of the coalition council are simply automatically confirmed. Then you should not delay your time – you should not come here to the Saeima sitting. I think it is technically possible to do this – that simply automatically after the debate... When the opposition has debated, you press... as decided by the coalition board. Parliament is the place of debate. Get up in this mystical e-tribby and tell me the arguments why you don't support people! Are you afraid? You spend 600 thousand PR to make yourself better? By the way, people who work well should not spend no cent PR. They're... just see good works. You're spending 600 thousand while... You can't give EUR 180 for an end-of-life allowance... or EUR 50. That's your attitude towards people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U98	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U99	Thank you. We will now have a vote. And so I repeat: I am calling for a coalition... One of the coalition's people... colleagues from the coalition should apply for a debate and explain what your argument is. Do you have any argument at all? Why do you feel that self-employed workers do not have to be supported? I look forward to the debate on this point. Or, by this, you can confirm that you are sitting here simply as blind voting buttons, which simply have to do not your oath, but as decided by the coalition council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U100	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U101	In the Commission, the proposal 8 was not supported. It was mentioned that the government is working to find a solution, and this issue has to be addressed in the emergency order rather than in the law. Proposal No 8 is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U102	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. – An offer from Members Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzem, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Papules, Smita and Svekova! On – 30, against – 54, abstained – 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U103	9. – Proposal from Members Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzem, Reiznieces–Ozola, Valaiņa, Papules, Smita and Svekova. This provides for the addition of a new article to the law. The Cabinet of Ministers... extend the application deadlines for the granting of severance grants for the entire duration of the emergency. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U104	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U105	Dear colleagues, We see how the government works. The government is working very slowly, very slowly, and we do not know if we will be able to solve this problem for the self-employed at all this year. And if you have applied as rapporteur, Mr Stein, then it is time to follow what was said in the Commission, because one of the arguments why the previous proposal was rejected in the Commission was about... because it was not to be included in the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, according to the Legal Bureau, it was to be included in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's what we're referring to. And that's not wrong. If we are talking about this proposal, which I put forward with my colleagues, then... You see that this drop-out sieve has been created very clumsy, wrong and very many people have fallen through this sieve. And you try to correct these errors very slowly, gradually, but something is being done, and some errors are being corrected. And then... Those people who at the beginning – on March 12 – after declaring the emergency... They did not have the opportunity to continue their work, and they did not have the opportunity to apply for and receive it for various reasons, for your sake. In our view, it would be only fair for all these people to be able to qualify for early retirement benefits for the whole period of time, and we should not think: now one deadline is over, now it is overdue. And those people you forgot about... they're just the time-fixes in which you didn't think of them... they have to live this time out just for themselves, as they can. Therefore, our proposal is to extend until the end of the emergency period all the time limits for retirement benefits. I think it's just logical that you... that when you see that there are many mistakes, you help the people you have left behind, you help them to solve this problem in some way and get the full amount of this cut-off allowance that they are also entitled to. Its mistakes must be corrected! But what we see – we see something else small, short... any extension of time limits. And we know that there are people who can no longer apply for an opt-out allowance for March, for April. That's not right, colleagues! We call for this error to be corrected and we call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U106	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U107	Colleagues! Yes, one of the groups of workers who, not because of themselves, but because of regulation, have missed the opportunity to receive an opt-out allowance for March (some of them also for April), are beneficiaries of royalties. Again – the creative sector. Not mandatory if there is a small income... If monthly income does not exceed the national minimum wage, it is not mandatory to register as self-employed. However, if they fail to do so, they are refused the benefits. And what SRS recommends – register as self-employed. Only – of course, registration can be made next month. This means they're getting a stop benefit for the first months... may not be eligible. They also do not currently have the possibility to submit an application for an end-of-life benefit – nothing of 180 euros. Nor can it be requested, ask. And that means this is the group that already... will not receive any support. I therefore think that this proposal is very correct and supportsable. Those who for some reason... Maybe because of the lack of knowledge, because the information was very fragmented... In addition, regulation is being chaotically changed all the time. People can't keep track. Not everyone has a wise accountant who reads the latest changes to laws and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers every day. In my opinion, we have a duty to come up against those people and allow them to stand for the death grant from day one... the first days of the emergency. Otherwise... There is such a saying about young entrepreneurs that they are given money in three f (English) – freeds, fools and family. We are now also in many other business regimes... Entrepreneurs who have worked for many years, paid taxes according to the Latvian tax system, we put in such shoes – the state does not help with a little finger. The only ones to rely on are yes, friends, family, and carelessness, which may help at this difficult time. What we need to understand is that a very large part of society lives close to the minimum subsistence, especially families with children, and a large part to the poverty line. It is not that there are many people who can also lend to a neighbor, a friend, or a acquaintance in this difficult situation because they will soon not have enough. I call once again, however, for a sense of mind and for this time to be used to find a solution quickly. Because if all the time, week after week, you say: “We do not support these proposals because it has to be dealt with... and, yes, it will be dealt with by a working group or a Cabinet of Ministers,” – then it’s already... It just starts to sound like the famous saying that we have to stay here hasty, hasty, hasty. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U108	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U109	In the Commission, proposal 9 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U110	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. – the proposal submitted by Members Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzem, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Papules, Smita and Svekova! On – 29, against – 53, abstained – 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U111	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – Proposal by Members Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzem, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Papules, Smita and Svekova. It provides for the addition of a new article to the law: "Let the activities of education programmes of all children's interests be carried out with strict compliance with the instructions of the epidemiologists." As the Commission pointed out from the Government (in particular from the Ministry of Education and Science), the Cabinet of Ministers on 21 May 2020 has already decided that from 1 June this year the process of education of interests... the adult education process as well as children and youth camps are allowed on-the-spot. Amendments were made to Cabinet Order No. 103 promulgating an emergency. Of course, all security measures must be respected. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U112	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U113	Hello, colleagues! I just want to confirm what the rapporteur has just explained very well. So with 1st June, the Cabinet of Ministers will come into force... amendments aimed at allowing the organisation of programmes of interest education, training processes and, similarly, child camps. And, of course, you can do this with strict... Consequently, these remoteness and epidemiological safety measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U114	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U115	Colleagues! This proposal was tabled when the Cabinet had not yet decided on this issue. It is very good that this problem has finally been solved. I therefore see no reason why Members could vote against this proposal. Because if we have already decided so, if the Cabinet of Ministers is in favour of renewed education of interests, then, in particular, following the instructions of the epidemiologists... So let's vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U116	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U117	In the Commission, proposal 10 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U118	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. – An offer from Members Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzem, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Papules, Smita and Svekova! On – 28, against – 54, abstained – 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U119	11. – Proposal by Members Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzem, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Papules, Smita and Svekova. It provides for the addition of a new article in the law to provide that forced enforcement of administrative acts of the tax administration against natural persons – taxpayers – is to be suspended for a period of six months. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U120	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U121	Colleagues! In the Commission, we have not heard any serious objections about why we cannot support it. The only objection, if not mistaken, was from the Law Office: that this proposal is in line with another law, that is, the Law on the Activities of State Authorities in the Distribution of Covid-19. But I think that now, in an emergency situation where we see that the e-Parliament also works very interesting when Members sit in the Saeima's sitting room and listen to the events of this sitting in the headphones... I think that it will not be wrong at the moment – simply supplement that Covid-19 law with this rule, which would establish that it is not... The exception applies to the tax administration act... to recovery measures... Well, we were also told by the representatives of the State Revenue Service that... tried to show that the situation is being resolved and that natural persons can agree on extensions, and that the situation is not really so tragic. But it must be borne in mind that solvency is now falling! Its crisis is visible now, it will also be visible in the coming months! And you just refused to pay for the Late Aid allowance for a lot of people... and refuse other support measures in this law. So that too, with your help, this situation will get worse. We need to think about the fact that there are individuals who are now... We must provide for the possibility of postponing for six months these forced actions planned by the SRS in connection with tax debts, such as the blocking of accounts, the recovery of assets. We are talking specifically about natural persons, we are not talking about legal persons. We are talking about individuals – taxpayers. We are talking about the situation in which a dispute, dispute or simply default has arisen; we are talking about the relationship between a natural person and the State Revenue Service. We understand that the State Revenue Service currently has a very important task – to complement the State Treasury with taxes as much as possible, so that you can also pay these benefits, but please take into account that there must also be a proportionality between the possibility of a person... the ability of people to pay these taxes! We see that the state refuses on very many occasions. But it must be understood that there are also people who simply cannot pay this tax burden at the moment. We call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U122	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U123	First of all, I would also like to join my colleague Jūlija Stepanenko in saying that this is, of course, tragic (I will not say something more rude about it!) that the members of the Saeima are in the Saeima room and listen to some headphones, don't know, a rock roll or something like that. And one part is nowhere. Although there is an open sitting, I cannot check what these Members are doing at all, whether they themselves vote or their wives; whether their spouses or any other colleagues are put on computers to push the button. It's impossible to test it all here in the hall. Even though... Although, when Members vote in the Chamber... when someone else is voting, then it's right away... it is reported and constitutes a serious infringement. If we are talking about recovery, it is quite clear that you are voting against people again. It's very simple! You, the coalition, always in all the votes, are voting against the people. And you're not going into the tributary, you're e-Deputies. I call again on Kirill Solovjova, who is sitting at the Bureau right now... I don't know if he is a member of the Saeima Chairmanship or another member of the Bureau, but I call... I know he can do it – make an e-Deputy function in this program. Probably the Saeima can pay for it, huh? There is an e-deputy who automatically votes like a bot, those who are now modern, who are themselves making their own vote. In Parliamentary republic and democracy, the debate is an essential part of democracy. The coalition is not debating. The coalition does not offer its opinion, nor does it offer an alternative. They're just sitting down. They are puppets – this is the best case. The worst case is what I said earlier. So, speaking about the proposal, you have to say: don't help people, and more! - allow them to recover... do not stop recovery during the crisis (not stop recovery, but stop recovery from them for the duration of the crisis!) – it is simply inhumane. You really don't have a heart? Are you really interested only in your purchases? Just your self - worth? You don't see how people live in Latvia? That most of the society lives in rather sad conditions, that about 40 percent of Latvia's population lives close to the poverty line? You don't see that? Get out of the parliament house, get out of your proud cars and see how people live in Latvia! I understand that it is unpleasant to look at the people, to look at them. Because it's not your level. But maybe you should? You have sworn that you will work in the interests of the people. But it turns out that none of your promises can ever be believed. Yesterday, you promised again that the doctor would increase... You are already promising this before every election. Kariņš promises that VAT will decrease for 15 years. Promise – that's what you're saying! PR campaigns you know how to make. But when you have to vote for people, then you don't learn! Then you don't care. Then you're hard, cinnamon faces... You have an e-programme where you press the buttons for something. Happily, if someone else is pressured at all. If you don't want to work for the people, maybe you should go home, maybe you should be fired? And you have to be fired! With Masonieri in the lead. This Parliament must be released... objectively, but it can only be done by people... those who watch this live. Why do you not let this House go? Why don't you join in the parliamentary dismissal? Don't you know? Two minutes go on the Internet. Learn! You see you don't care about you here? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And you're suffering it. You've been suffering for 30 years, you've been suffering for 30 years, but maybe it's enough. Maybe we should get it once. Get the courage. Change Latvia. And you people can do it! I am absolutely sure you can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U124	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U125	At last sitting, the coalition voted in favour of preventing bailiffs from recovering their debts during the crisis. When this proposal was discussed by the Commission, it was pointed out that, as it is now, all the laws allow a person to have the means to guarantee the minimum subsistence both for him and his children. I'll just tell you one thing. The following happened to me yesterday very close to me. A woman... a young woman born a baby on 2 March this year. And when the crisis started, she... She really refuses any contact with other people so that she does not threaten her little baby. She didn't go to the store or to the pharmacy. And, of course, the mail did not go. 10 days ago, she received a notice from the post office that she had to appear in the post office in order to remove her registered letter. She didn't go to the post. And... How do you know... Those who have ever been dealing with such statements... that there is no record of what it is about a letter about which is a story. She didn't go to the post. Yesterday she had to pay for the utilities and she found her account blocked. She's calling the bank. They say, “We blocked because it was asked by the bailiff.” She calls the bailiff – thank God. ( I know very many cases that people try to call bailiffs for weeks, not their mobile phone, but simply their work phone. And you can imagine how hard it might be now when everyone works remotely.) She calls the bailiff and learns about what the debt is. And she paid that debt. But she called me only after that. And I told her, “You could not pay... Did you have enough resources to have you and your child on your account when you paid?” She says: “No! I had only about 80 euros left there." I say, “Did you ask the bailiff if you have sufficient resources to survive you and your two-month-old daughter?” She says, “No!” That's what happens. That's what happens! And this is really about people who for various reasons... and, in particular, because of the same laws and regulations that we adopt and adopt here... They're not going anywhere... Where could they learn about their debts? I allow the State Revenue Service to communicate with the Internet. But... As Mr Gobzem rightly pointed out, people are also dependent on the Internet, on different technical aspects, and so on. The most important thing I want to say is that in our country everything happens just like this: if you ask something yourself, then you will answer it, but no one will preventively ask you whether if you block your account, withdraw your money, you will have the means to survive, or you know your rights. As the police always demand... Give you a page that describes your rights. I think that this practice could also be taken from the police by our bailiffs and the State Revenue Service, so that a person gets the page that describes his rights... how to resist state and government actions that threaten his breathing, his life. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U126	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U127	Hello, colleagues! It has to be said that this practice is applied in some European Union countries (and not only in those countries). There is nothing criminal here, because it is not about not paying, but it is only about postponing the debt or payment. That's the point one. Two points. The problem also lies in the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers, when preparing the relevant draft law and the corresponding amendments to the order... Unfortunately, there is little communication here with the Members of the Saeima. That's a point two. Three points. In this case... if such cases come from the Cabinet of Ministers, the members of the Cabinet of Ministers are mandatory! – to defend the proposals submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers... Proposals. And it is equally imperative to oppose proposals that have been rejected in committee sittings, in public space, i.e. the Saeima sitting. Thank you. I'm calling...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U128	I closed the debate. For the Commission Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U129	In the Commission, the 11th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. – An offer from Members Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzem, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Papules, Smita and Svekova! On – 29, against – 57, abstained – 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U131	12. – A proposal from Members Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Papules, Smita and Svekova, which provides for changes to the family state benefit regulation. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U132	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U133	Dear colleagues, You constantly reject the proposals – various proposals, including those related to support for families with disabilities. Of course, it is a good thing that you take into account our requests not to distinguish between these disabled families. We saw that you tried to understand how to support these families – whether to support families where the child has returned from a special school or only those where the child is particularly disabled. And it's good that at the end of the day you decided not to separate this family. That is a positive point. Bad... It's bad that there's a poppy coming back. As we pointed out at the previous sitting, airBaltic gave you a hundred times more than you would have granted by paying this allowance for two months. You decided now not twice... two months to pay, but you decided to reduce even more, so one month only... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Not March and April, as you had counted, but... So this support for families is only unique – it is 150 euros. And to decide on this 150 euro, you needed several months. To understand that there is a problem with these families and to understand how much to pay for them. You didn't have to think long to give the money to airBaltic, it happened lightly. You didn't even have much to count and count there. You did not have to plan so much, you simply granted it – just as you continued to give money to other industries and businesses. But families with children with disabilities don't know why you're in your sight... Just because you have to plan and sleep a lot so that you don't give the God you don't have to spend any euro on any of these families. And we see the result – you have placed the family in an unequal situation. You are always talking about equality, Article 110 of the Satversme, about family, about marriage. You've had a working group here recently... that the law of marriage should be directed. But, dear friends, you have forgotten that Article 110 of the Satversme also speaks of children with disabilities. Don't be hypocrites, please! Don't talk about protecting families from voting against families with children with disabilities! And that's what you're gonna do again today. What the Ministry of Welfare did – the Ministry of Welfare decided that families with children up to the age of two should receive this supplement – this supplement to the family allowance. And this bonus... they receive this allowance until the end of the emergency; this is logical. However – why can families with a disabled child not receive this supplement in the amount of 150 euros until the end of the emergency, but only once? It is not clear to us what families with disabilities are worse than those with very small children. We're not clear! Because, as we have repeatedly pointed out in the debate, these families have been confronted with major problems, and you yourself, I think, know. And Mrs Petraviča knows that very well. But you've only started to decide about it recently. So far, that has not been so much worrying. We also talked about eating children... on the catering of children with disabilities. You have not thought much about this either. There are also many problems that appeared only when people started writing to us. That was not the case either. Dear colleagues, then... Now we will see how you defend Article 110 of the Satversme. Have you really read the Constitution? Do you understand what you're doing right now? I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U134	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U135	Dear people! In our country, the Treaties are not respected. In our country, the Constitutions do not respect either the Speaker of the Saeima or the Saeima Coalition or the Alliance of Unity – with the Prime Minister at the forefront. Because to him the Constitution also... do not need to be followed. He's not elected, he doesn't have your mandate, he doesn't care. Like Viņķelis, who doesn't have your mandate. She's been deleted. Like a president who doesn't have your mandate. He does not care, he has not dissented from Riga Castle, and he is not interested in all these violations of democracy. These people are not interested in much. But if they are not interested in children with disabilities and for how many months it has not been possible to find the means – capeicas, santams... But at the same time, at the same time of urgency for Viņķele's political scientist Philip Rajevski... How many are there – 600 thousand? He has already been given his “fortune story”... I don't know exactly. 180... forty... 40 thousand – for the fact that the Ministry of Health will participate in the ZZ championship. God alone knows what that is. But it's more important now – to give 40,000 Viņķele to political scientist Philip Rajevskis to participate in the ZZ championship. Instead of helping children with disabilities. Dear Society, how long will you look at it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's clear, I can every sitting... and Julia Stepanenko can light it up every sitting, tell you about it, and you can stay on it every week. Being alone is not enough. You must start to want to love yourself! And if you start loving yourself, you will want to protect yourself and your interests. You must stop fearing this coalition. They're just 50 and one... or how long?... human beings. And they do not represent the majority of society. They only represent their interests. If you stop fearing yourself and your shadows, dear people, you will remove these 51 people who do not find funds for children with disabilities very quickly. You can identify them in a number of ways. Dismisses this Parliament – this is one way. It's a very simple way. You just have to sign for the dismissal of the Saeima. The other way – you can get up. And the third way – you can suffer and wait for a miracle. But wonders don't happen. You are not demanding self-defence. It only happens when you do it. Only if you, dear people, who are watching and listening to this live broadcast (and then you will be watching it in the recording), will you begin to defend yourself... or to protect at least children with disabilities during a crisis. Imagine if now there would be a real war and these same 50 and how many MEPs who vote against children with disabilities would also decide that they would not come, but Philip Rajevski, a political scientist at Viņķele, would once again have half a million, because it would probably be some PR campaign against the opponent... during the war. It's now. Please tell me what PR campaigns are needed by the Ministry of Health or the Cabinet of Ministers, which are also shown every day on the television? Nothing! It's a simple stealing of public money. It's theft of the state. The whole farce that Members sit in the Chamber and speak in the headphones is theft of the state. It is a modern, modern coup d'état that is taking place here, and it is allowed by the Speaker of the Saeima, a cold face, and it is allowed every time for the opposition and the nation as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U136	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U137	Thank you. I call on Members of the coalition, if they do not really read the proposal, to prevent, by means of a different vote, children with special needs, both in education and in welfare, from being systematically excluded. It is clear that errors are made and will be made, but then at least look at what other colleagues are proposing at the moment to correct them. One. Second. I would also support an open debate in terms of the e-platform, if coalition Members (in this case probably the Minister for Welfare) took the opportunity - just as they did today on other issues - to tell us what systemic solutions are or will be expected to be needed to support children with special needs and families with special needs through a truly open discussion, as there was no discussion in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission on any issue. On this issue too, we did not actually hear what further steps could be taken to see that these errors were being corrected or that questions were being dealt with... also in emergency situations, possibly in a different way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U138	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U139	In the Commission, proposal 12 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U140	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. – An offer from Members Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzem, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Papules, Smita and Svekova! Please, let's vote! ( The sound is broken.) ... 8, against – 50, abstaining – 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U141	13. - a proposal from Member Lochmele-Lunova. Changes in the rules of entry during an emergency are foreseen. A similar proposal has already been made in previous draft specific crisis laws. The Commission held a wide-ranging debate. This proposal is imprecise in terms of content, including it was repeatedly stated in the Commission that this issue should be addressed at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, by amending the specific provisions on entry of the Emergency Order. In the Commission, this proposal, 13, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U142	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U143	Thank you. First of all, I will take the opportunity and correct the commission to say that, first of all, this proposal was tabled once so far, it is the second time. Secondly, at the first meeting of the Commission, no argument was raised, even by the Legal Office. No name was given to the representative of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. At the second meeting of the panel, however, several arguments were raised, but it should have been clarified that those arguments were directly related to what... the circumstances. The main argument was that in my proposal only the relatives of Latvian citizens who have returned from abroad, except Estonia and Lithuania, are offered to be in self-insulation. It was pointed out that this proposal would not be able to cover the epidemiological situation that could occur after one week, one month, and so on, that the list of these countries would be updated to take account of the information from different countries on the number of certain people suffering from Covid-19. That was the first. And the second. It was pointed out that the proposal specified a specific deadline, i.e. that this norm would operate throughout 2020 and that it was not correct either. On my proposal to create a commission proposal on the basis of my proposal, where these two purely technical cases could be rectified, the panel did not show any interest, and it was rejected as any proposal from the opposition. In parallel, there were some interesting events. In particular, MEPs wrote a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers asking to provide a description of the situation and an explanation of the situation, why, unlike Lithuania or Poland, or Denmark, relatives of Latvian citizens can freely enter Latvia, and why people have to make applications at least to the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Head of the State Border Guard each time. Unfortunately, I did not receive this answer from the Cabinet for technical reasons, on which (a great deal of thanks to Mrs Siliņa) I was informed yesterday. Yesterday, Mrs. Siliņa and I also talked about the situation, whether corrections to this situation could be included in the new law, which will enter into force after the end of the emergency situation, in order to guarantee the possibility for Latvian citizens to arrive in Latvia without obstacles, so that for humanitarian reasons there is no harm to families. Mrs. Silina was honest. She said: “I never promise what I can’t guarantee.” Therefore, for this moment, I call on you to vote in favour of my proposal, given that even government representatives cannot guarantee that this right to Latvian citizens... at least the relatives of Latvian citizens will be guaranteed. And I'll point out once again that it's human... the human rights aspect. That is the case where we really have to take an example from the governments of other Member States of the European Union who were... who have had the ability to incorporate these rules into crisis regulation. Let us not burden the lives of our citizens and make it possible for them to have this opportunity right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U144	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U145	In the Commission, this proposal, 13, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U146	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal tabled by Member Lochmeles-Lunova! Please, let's vote! On – 28, against – 56, abstaining – not. The proposal is not supported. Please turn on the microphone...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U147	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – Proposal by Members Papules, It is planned to supplement the law with a new article, stating that “In 2020 and 2021 the state guarantee for all studies applied for and student loans in Latvia is to be provided”. In the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science mentioned a plan and activities that are currently being developed and performed in a field that also includes broad support for students. The specific proposal was not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U148	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U149	Thank you. As far as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is concerned, I have addressed particularly not only the applicants, but also the other Members of the coalition, asking them to read the proposal, to support the proposal. All the more because it is an open letter submitted by the Latvian Students' Association. It is available to all. To a certain extent, I am even surprised that coalition colleagues have not added similar possibilities to draft laws, especially for students, because students are also one of the parts of society that currently needs special support. This is also reflected in the study by the Latvian Student Association on student mood, on future plans to study or perhaps choose another place where to study, where there is no study fee at all. This and future motions from the group of Members are therefore based on hearing students' wishes. Students, of course, have been justified by the data of the survey. There has also been a campaign, a special action in social networks, as well as in the physical ministry on the trotary or sidewalk, and at the moment Members have slightly expanded the possibilities to participate in the payment of study fees for all those who need this assistance, not only by increasing perhaps by 500 (as the calculations of students and the Ministry also show) people, but practically all those who will be asking for support to cover student credits in this situation for two years. I call for support, and yet I am drawing attention, including that perhaps most Members also have higher education. It doesn't matter where it was obtained – in Latvia or outside. I invite you to remember my study years and support this proposal, regardless of who has heard or read the open letter of the students, voting in favour of the students. Vote for students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U150	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U151	Hello, colleagues! The Ministry of Education and Science has been working on a plan to help and support students since the letter and updating of the problem. This plan has also been discussed with students several times and provides for four different mechanisms. So the first is an increase of 500 in the number of state-guaranteed studies and students. It is also important to recall here that in 2019 the number of such guaranteed places was only 1200, so in principle we are increasing it more than twice. Then the second part of the mechanism is the size of studies... Thus, increasing the amount of study scholarship for students with good achievements from the current 99.06 euros to 200 euros. Then there are two more mechanisms that are more focused on social assistance for those students who may have lost their jobs and fall through the unemployed filter, and cannot get this unemployment benefit either. Two support mechanisms that will help both such students, let us say, those who have completed the studies, and those who will be ready to participate in the university, let us say, with the help of the IT field or with administrative help, or with the involvement of some scientific projects. Since this offer has been negotiated with the Latvian Students' Association, there are some details that we still specify, but in principle in the commission the Latvian Students' Association supported this offer. That is why we are waiting for it at the moment. This offer has been discussed several times in a coalition in different formats, and we are now waiting for the main approval of the Ministry of Finance, so that there is also a support plan and that we can move forward. So I ask you today to reject the measures proposed by the opposition, because this combined four-step plan really covers its needs... which students also need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U152	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U153	Colleagues, I thank Mr Znotiņš first of all that it seems that the Ministry of Education and Science has responded rather quickly and really cooperates with students, something that other ministries could also teach. When offering some of their rescue plans, it is important to do so – talk to the industry itself to understand more clearly what they need. However, I would also call for support to be given to Members' proposals, because it does not appear entirely certain that these proposals - a four-point plan and broad support measures - will go up to the government's decision. Somewhere in the government you have the narrow neck of the bottle – I don't know if the Ministry of Finance or the inability to agree with each other – but... But we already have a bad experience with the Ministry of Culture's plan for supporting culture, with the Ministry of Economics' plan for tourism, hospitality, catering, where we have long heard that there is a very good plan, there will be now, there will be decisions now, but unfortunately, today's decision in the government has not been taken and no support has been given. Students also have a huge role to play in time... especially because 80 percent (this is the student's own estimate)... 80 percent of students study in parallel... works. This is because they have to earn money so that they can pull ends together. Not out of their free will, they spend their study time... With rare exceptions. The IT sector is a good exception. There really are students already studying... work in its own sector. Many students are employed in hospitality, catering, especially while studying in Riga. As you know, these are the areas that have been most affected by an emergency at a time when we have restrictions in force, when borders are closed, when people have reduced freedom of movement and assembly. They are left without additional revenue. Well, students themselves also estimate that more than 50 percent of them survive every month with 400 euros, and less and very much of them have rapidly reduced their income. As a result, around 12 percent of students plan to stop their training if there is no additional support from the State. Well, 10 thousand uncontinued studies and 10 thousand... equally use academic leave. Well, it's a huge student (not heard.) ... If smart people realize that the time of crisis is when you have to make your own mistakes... make horns in the summer... In fact, it is a time when knowledge must be invested. In a situation where students stop teaching, we cannot allow it. I therefore call for support to be given to this and to the rest of Mrs Papule's proposals, because there is also a complex approach here, both in terms of state guarantees for study and study credits, both in terms of increasing scholarships and in terms of abolishing the study fee for the duration of the emergency. Well, I think there's a pretty good set that, well, at least for the start... The government will receive and still make decisions. We will only be happy if we are more and better. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U154	(Sound rupture) ... Eway Papuley for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U155	Yes, on the one hand, I thank Mr Znotiņš for his reply, on the other hand, he must say that several days ago, using the media, he said that the money is 13 million. Then the question arises: why, today, on Thursday, is there no government order or government proposal, or a new amendment to the relevant law on support for students, which would guarantee that they are heard and that they are an important part of society? We may well remember that, in his first speech at the time of approval, the Prime Minister said that he would not have a position or opposition. In the Covid-19 situation, we have also heard the pathos full of words about the fact that the opposition and position are not so important at the moment. In this case, the opposition has heard the needs and the position is, as always, late. Therefore, I do not see a reason (if everything is so positive and the actions are adopted) for this, if it comes to students, not to be such a connecting factor that Members, regardless of whether there is a friendly coalition or opposition at this point, do not support students. We hear a lot that is our future, that it is our development... Then show your vote in favour of supporting students – the truthfulness of these words. Otherwise, your words are: long speeches – empty speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U156	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U157	Colleagues! How Mrs. Papule finished: long speeches – empty speeches... Indeed, I also very much hope that this proposal will not end with it. For my part, too, I would like to thank both Mrs Papules for having tabled such a proposal and a set of proposals, as well as Mr Znotiņš for having been actively involved in this problem. Unfortunately, however, we are all well aware of other active ministers, such as Janis Witenbergs, the economic ministers, who were also actively involved in solving the problem, came up with a solution to the problem and gave the whole area enormous hope. Students are also given huge hopes at the moment. If we look at this background – the background really... Well, quite, quite, honestly, so disgusting. If we... If we can invest 250 million plus 36 more without any public debate on airBaltic, then the amount and significance of this proposal is clear to everyone, I think. That would be a discussion... I do not think it is necessary to discuss how important this is. And not to prevent the dramatic consequences that students themselves have marked and that really threaten to be fulfilled. Procrastination is not the best thing that can happen. If really very large investments – a quarter billion - can be invested very quickly, but such relatively small investments are waiting for something... awaits any opinions. The bitter truth is that these opinions are unlikely to be very positive. While Mr. Zakatistov will talk about how good it is to support only those who need to be supported, and only those who have paid the real taxes properly and honestly, exactly the real ones (the emphasis on the real ones), but have paid some other tax regimes, then there can also be a debate here about how well that student has been successful or maybe that student... how carefully he has attended the lectures. Well, I think this isn't... Nor is the place where you can deal with such things. In a way, Mr. Znotiņš, we are ready to help you. And this proposal is such an important helper and shows in some way the support of the Saeima for the position, including the support of the opposition for all its ideas. I will call for this proposal to be supported, as it is now a vision of the opposition. I would invite you to... how it could be dealt with. Thank you to Evia Papule for making such a proposal. Also... Well, I don't know, in my opinion, Mrs Papule started this very well about the fact that there are things where there's no sort of coalition or opposition, and this is definitely one of those things. Could we find a solution in some way to show this political support... Is that so? I will come with a proposal next time in such cases, perhaps not only to submit proposals, but also to draft decisions of the Saeima, positions... As we have done in the past, both on the issues of regional aid, regional policy in the National Development Plan, and now in this time of crisis, perhaps the ministries should understand that these ideas have the full support of the Saeima to do so also in the form of decision-making projects. But I am now calling for this proposal to be supported. I also call on other colleagues to support this, thus demonstrating that we really care about and are prepared for rapid solutions not only in airBaltic's rescue story, but also in the interests of both students and other areas that we have discussed very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U158	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U159	Yes, of course, I will ask you all to support students, to support our young people. I'll start with numbers that Mr. Znotiņš did not say, even though he should have done so. But if they don't, I'll mention it. According to the Central Statistical Administration... Currently, 79 400 students are studying in higher education institutions in Latvia. Of these 79 thousand, 57.1 per cent learns about their own resources: this 57.1 per cent is 45,337 students. Just before Mr Znotiņš said that it was decided to increase the number of students receiving state-guaranteed loans from 1200 to 1700. If we subtract from 45 337 students 1700 students for whom the state guarantees credit, the balance is 43 637 students. So at the moment, 43 637 students who study at Latvian universities have only one chance to pay for their studies from their pocket. If in these days of crisis they have been left without a chance of earning themselves (because, as has been said, most of them worked where they could get a job, and most of these companies – restaurants, hotels and so on – are currently hard or not earning anything) or if these students... The parents paid for their studies, maybe the parents are currently unemployed or are paid a minimum of EUR 180 for their studies. I know from the real life – really very many young people are currently forced to apply for a credit... study credit. It is vital for Latvia's future now – to support young people who will be helpless also in the unemployment situation, who are helpless to get their money somewhere, so that they have the hope of becoming those people who deserve it in the future. At the moment we are not doing anything to deny them such an opportunity, so I will join Mrs Papule's call – we are voting for students! We vote for the students! We vote for the students! 43,637 young people, who should have hope for a better future.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U160	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Members are currently registered. Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U161	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda – draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U162	So, colleagues, we remained on the 14th proposal, to which the debate should continue. In the Commission, the 14th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U163	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U164	Thank you. The situation is out of life. There's a fire going on. At a building (conditionally) which can be called a campus of students comes firefighters, and their representative (conditionally) Captain Znotiņš says to the students: “Children, we are ready. We have already drawn up a number of plans. Even the first four steps to help you. Now we're going to go to decision-makers for a short time. When the decision is made, we will return and then you will get all the help you need. If, if God does not give us, the building will burn down, after a few years we will build another palace of light, where there will be a place for all.” I call for this proposal to be supported, because it is really an attempt to delete the fire at the existing rules, at the current situation. But, at the same time, I would like to say that we should not turn all this debate into a farce. For what is drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers in its proposals to be approved by the Saeima means two things. The first thing is that when drawing up appropriate proposals, the Cabinet takes responsibility for their reality, their correctness and so on, and still. Second. When we look at this in the Saeima, we are simply drawing on the length of time and taking responsibility for the measures to be taken and not done. In this case, it is very important to remember that we are a parliamentary republic and that the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers should be evaluated in two ways. Either when this extraordinary situation comes to an end, it is necessary to crave the Cabinet of Ministers or another possibility, which is more realistic – to give each of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers by order, maybe even two to Mr Kariņš. I call for this proposal to be supported and, however, for more constructive work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U165	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U166	Young people of Latvia! Students! You must realise that there is a vote against you here. Yesterday I had a conversation with a person of your age who had already left for the first trip to Oslo to live there, to study... apparently from there... or at least work by saying that he is not allowed to do so in Latvia, saying that he cannot survive in Latvia. You are 40... more than 40 thousand who are covered by this proposal. You are indifferent to the Latvian government with Krišjānis Kariņš at the forefront of Kariņš, because Krišjānis Kariņš... The only thing you can do is to call for a balanced relationship or contact with eggs. I invite you to stop believing in Viņķelis, who knows how to search Friday evening during the crisis and show your fingers quite immeasurably, but cannot support the people of Latvia. Young people, I know that some of you are large, or at least partially large, supporters of so-called liberal policy. And I want to ask you young people – have you experienced in your life that someone else – not liberal, but someone else – would be so limited by your fundamental rights, your human rights? Who else, rather than a liberal one, would censor your different opinion? That someone other than a liberal would be so populist and promise everything possible – medical wages, support for you, reduction of VAT before the elections or government declaration OIC cancellation... and promised you the Nordic country. And instead, what did they get? Philip Rajevski, the political scientist at Viņķele, was given instead. Hundreds of thousands... I invite you students to join in for your parents, grandparents, after all for yourself. I call on you to open your eyes and understand that the existing government, the existing coalition, is destroying your future. That is why, with such a good sense of work, the Minister for Education who has successfully completed 2019/2020. The school year, realizes that the most important thing at the moment is to accept an expert on education policy issues for cooperation with the European Union for 1600 euros per month, rather than – how to solve the problems related to the return of 30th-century students and students to schools and study benches on September 1, despite the fact that Uga Dumpis says that we will have to live with the virus on Mondays. We do not know whether there will be a vaccine or whether it will be safe at all, and whether people will want to be vaccinated at all. This coalition has no plan for education. But for a country that is rich, the first plan is precisely about education. It is in Finland, it is in many countries around the world. What I am calling you to. I know that many of you will also leave Latvia. I call on you before you take this step, because most who leave will not come back... I call on you as young people to be the first to receive and defend your country. It was the students who actually founded Latvia, won its famous battle. You don't have to fight today. Today you are the ones who can change Latvia in the interests of your future, the future of your children and all of us, as President Levit says, fellow human beings. Help us do this for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U167	I closed the debate. For the Commission Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U168	In the Commission, proposal 14 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U169	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. – An offer from Members Papule, Dombrovska, Švekova, Agešina, Rubika, Ločmeles-Lunova, Cileviča, Vucana, Reizniece-Ozola, Kabanova, Tutina, Goldberga, Bergmanis and Liepiņa! Please, let's vote! To - 29, to - 42, to - 11 abstentions. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Members want to talk about the procedure. Please activate the point on the procedure in the system. Member Stepanenko, you wanted to talk. You can now apply in the system to talk about the procedure. So the name to Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U170	Yes, thank you, colleagues. To apply for a debate, I had to send an e-mail to the Saeima at the beginning, and then Mrs Mūrniece announced that I had to press the button in the system. I did it. I would like to state that, yes, Members are asked to get out of the system during the break, but if Members forget to do so, then this system does not even need to use an ID card, I still have an ID card in my hands and I am in the system. This means that if a Member leaves his or her computer open, any person can access the computer and use it for his or her own purposes. I draw your attention to the fact that this system is not safe enough. I repeat, we are currently using the second Saeima sitting to test this e-platform, a product. I think that we have every right to point out the weaknesses of this product. I also call on the other colleagues to point out, when it comes to the procedure, that we are now (not hearable.) ... There are violations in the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U171	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U172	Colleagues! So, firstly, on procedural issues. There can't be a system that only requires digital insertion... It's the same. This is contrary to any human rights, fundamental human rights. So if a person has chosen to be in the hall, there must be a technical possibility to listen to him, being in the hall, because there cannot be a situation where Mrs Mourniece hears the word "to vote" and does not hear at times the words "on procedure", which can not be applied for at some point too... A new solution is now being sought, as the programme has not actually been put into operation. Secondly. I have also seen with my own eyes that two Members have tried that, apart from the card, the system actually works and, in fact, anyone can access and use it. No sittings of the Saeima can take place in such a situation on the e-platform, because there can also be a person without a card (not to be heard). ... on the computer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U173	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, It is also the responsibility of every Member to use the e-signature that you have at your disposal. It is also the responsibility of every Member. Please turn on the microphone for Martin Stein. We're still working on the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U174	Thank you. 15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – Proposal from Members Švelova, Papules, Rubika, Goldbergas and Kucina. Provision shall be made for the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to lay down the procedure for covering the various expenses of the educational institution and the educators of the educational institutions. In the Commission this proposal, 15, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U175	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U176	Thank you. I ask Mr Znotiņš of the New Conservative Party and the Ministers for Education and Science, Mrs Šuplinska, as well as all the Members representing the new Conservative, who are responsible for the field of education and the educational institutions, to finally start taking action, not to discuss, discuss, draw up plans, but to take concrete decisions and support measures for both students, educators and pre-school institutions, as well as parents, who are carrying out a remote training process for their children during this difficult period. Why? The new Conservative Party, you think – the New Unity has already been completed and completely destroyed in the Lions of KPV LV. Only ruins remained of that party. Is Mr Zakatistov, who is using certain services in the Ministry of Finance... You've already lost your security service in the war. And that's obvious. You have lost in the construction of “Mars” park. You have also lost a number of other positions, including the appointment of the Prosecutor General. You look like losers. And now with every step, every day, when you refuse to help students, educators and also children, you lose in the eyes of the voters who supported you when you were in the elections. And you're the next politicians that I'm going to do now. The new unity with Mr. Pētersons today plans to conduct negotiations and PR campaigns accordingly, starting with the Riga City Council elections. How do you look in the eyes of those teachers and children whom you refuse to help? I ask you to support my proposal and my fellow Members' proposal because it provides financial support for those teachers and pupils and their families who were in an emergency (Sound break.) ... and who did not have such a good material condition to use IT... technologies and also to be able to compensate for the expenses incurred in providing training at home. It is high time, the New Conservative Party, to show real interest and concern for teachers and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U177	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U178	After such a dramatic statement by my colleague, it is difficult to continue, but I would also call for support for this proposal because, at the moment, home learning is really... Soon, the school year will come to an end, but not yet, and not all families have had a good internet connection to ensure their process smoothly, not everyone can afford it, because the bills about using the Internet are not small too, especially in situations where we are discussing huge struggles – to give or not give to a large part of society 180 euros... then those bills, well, hit the pocket. And so I think that the proposal to provide free internet connection is to be supported by covering it from the national side, because right now, too, in cases where it can be seen that one of the children does not have a computer or a cart or a sufficient internet connection... There are, of course, very different situations, but schools themselves are, to a large extent, involved, and it is left to the local authorities as well. Today, what needs to be understood – the Internet is such a critical infrastructure. It's like a road. We're not paying for it. This is a public interest. It's maintained by the state, it pays... shall be paid from the total tax revenue to settle them. And I'd even say it's getting even more than such an esophagus. If you are thinking of any such long-term political initiatives, free Internet is one good idea that one of the political forces of the future could also offer. It would be so up-to-date and I think it is very welcome, but at least for the time being, as such, to provide this support during the training, I think it is a very good idea, and I also call for it to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U179	Thank you. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U180	Hello, colleagues! I'm definitely at first... when I saw this proposal, I also said to my group colleagues that this is something that we would really like to discuss, and we also discussed... but, looking in more detail at all of this, in fact, I would certainly not agree with this wording, which is it. And I'll tell you why. If we divide those two groups (one being those working in educational establishments and the other being families), then, when it comes to those working in educational establishments, that is to say, teachers, who could really have been incurred and certainly have incurred additional costs in order to ensure the distance learning process, their costs and their costs are directly borne by the municipalities as employers. And the Law of Labour, if I am not mistaken, was Paragraph 76, even requiring the employee to bear the expenses incurred... the performance of their duties. That's the point one. It would be perfectly normal for us to address everyone in our municipality, to call on the members of our municipality, especially those in power, to support our citizens, our teachers, who work there. As far as I am aware, at present only one municipality in Latvia has taken such a step by supporting its educators, covering the costs of mobile communications and the Internet. I know a number of municipalities that I think very... especially after a speech by Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which is with very interesting arguments. Let me say why they cannot do this, although in fact the law already makes it, and what I think is the hook in this offer and what is wrong is that there is an indication that the state must provide a targeted grant. But I would like to remind you that, at this point in time, there should definitely not be a situation in which municipal revenue has fallen significantly. These amounts will not be large to cover such compensations. I can mention one of the Municipality of Pieriga, where I myself have calculated how much it could be paid, and these are... In the teacher section, they would be up to 17 thousand in such compensations, and in the education budget section of municipalities the savings are now from both student transportation and municipal payments; therefore, colleagues, call your municipal leaders, address the members of your local government, but in my opinion this is not the case where it should be covered by the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U181	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U182	Yes, colleagues, to some extent Mrs Muižniece can join, and it is good if you have also understood that this is a good proposal. But a little bit of us will probably have a different understanding of this proposal, because we are looking at how it happens in reality. First of all, it is important to emphasise that there is a Constitution of Latvia and the Constitution of Latvia as the Basic Law of Latvia lays down (Article 112): “Everyone has the right to education. The country shall ensure free access to primary and secondary education. Basic education is compulsory.’ It is on the basis of this Article that educational institutions also provide the state with the means of teaching. At least when I went to school, I remember that different educational materials had to be bought by myself and that wasn't... It was not possible for all to secure it calmly. At the moment, this is guaranteed by the state. Similarly, this proposal already, by its very nature, means that the state is taking part in this section (this is where both the educators and the parents who are paid for are present). And indeed, I think that with this proposal we could support both, but if we look... you mentioned the role of educators and municipalities throughout this. I am also familiar with the invitation of the trade union of Latvian Education and Science Workers and could agree that municipalities should be more involved in this. But when speaking to municipalities, they explained to me one important thing that when he was at work, he also... he has the opportunity to be in a class that is fully equipped, has both the Internet, everything possible, and he has a distance – that he is completely alone in the same class and not like us, for example, are sitting in the hall now, and you are definitely also, Mrs Muižniece, certainly not the same room you are in. But teachers are given such opportunities, and all these classes are very well equipped, have the Internet, and so on. And the educator has the choice of whether he is at home or at an educational institution. Of course, if some of its difficulties exist, they need to be tackled on the ground. There is no doubt about this. And try to find some compromise. But it's just for your parents... There is no choice for parents. Now their child can't go to school, their child must be at home. He needs to be at home. And this is actually... Now this is definitely an integral part of education. And, as the Constitution has already said, the state provides access to primary and secondary education free of charge. So the Constitution has already been recorded, and there have been judgments of the Constitutional Court, which are understood by this. And, in my view, if we want to fulfil the Constitution in this state of emergency, Article 112 – I invite you to get acquainted with it, read it... It must then be clearly defined. And this proposal also reflects this. I would call for support for this proposal, thus fulfilling the Constitution. And this invitation from the trade union of education and science workers in Latvia is in place. This has been reflected in this proposal directly. And I think that accent... I would agree that this proposal is not entirely perfect and perfect, because the most important section is exactly where I do not agree with you, Mrs Muižniece... what you said. The most important key is precisely those parents and their families. And now the Internet is inextricably... Like a textbook without which you can't really learn a substance, the Internet is an integral part of the world without which you can't visit at all... you cannot participate in the learning process, just as – ironically – now the members of the Saeima. If he doesn't have Internet, he can't take part in the Saeima sitting. We are just the same as the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U183	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U184	Thank you. It has to be said that this problem is much more complicated than it looks from the first eye. The first concerns the school financing cases referred to by Mrs Muižniece. Remote education has been introduced through the introduction of an emergency, which is a national decision. As a result, when implementing this decision, the State must also provide for funding for municipalities that implement this function in nature, including the internetisation of teachers. The other thing about the students. If today, with the help of the Constitutional Court, students are provided with free teaching means, access to the Internet and computers are also part of the learning process. And so it should certainly be thought here that its function should be carried out at the expense of the State. Third. Yesterday, the Committee on European Affairs had a long discussion because one of the largest projects in Europe was the digitalisation of Europe, which involves extensive digitisation at all levels of the population, from grandchildren to pensioners, which also envisages opening up internet spaces, the possibility of buying appropriate equipment, and so on, and so on. And if we really want how we're... because we have supported it... this position in the European Union, if we want to take real steps in this direction, then it is necessary not only to think about how to do this, but also to take those first concrete steps – perhaps not very big but concrete. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U185	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U186	Yeah, thank you. On the one hand, I understand why the coalition is not taking part in the debate, because now those who are taking part show that there is no such real consensus. On the part of the JCPOA, we are promised that we will meet the requirements that emerge, so some say that we do not need to do so. Well, obviously, it looks like there's a real... I mentioned once from the Registry a comparison with dancing – which hinders a dancer from dancing well always as a reason... On the other hand, thank you to those who are taking part in the debate, because we really know that opposition proposals are necessary for the sector and are even considered reasonable. Well, from this point of view, I would say to the students, also looking at the next proposals and the votes – please don't relax, because to believe obviously also in the belief expressed by Mr Znotiņš in the mass media that there will be 13 million students' support, you can't. So strengthen and form your future promotions as long as you achieve what the coalition may reject today and some particular order may accept. But in this case, thank you very much to Members who drew attention to those who are difficult to read or understand, or to some other thing. Indeed, the proposal has two parts. One is support for parents. And in this case, once again, I appeal to the welfare officer that this aid should, of course, be available to everyone, because it really is a reform of education, but it can perhaps be given at the moment to those who... those parents and those families whose social benefits do not allow additional costs, especially in the Covid-19 situation. The other part is about teachers. And we already see to a certain extent the attitude of the governing officials towards people in the education sector, but still. There is one special part of the general education teachers' family at present, which is a pre-school teacher who worked in special on-call groups rather than remote groups. Similar to the medical profession, in the Covid-19 conditions teachers and educators of preprimary education worked, and the government did not see the need to further support these people with bonuses in special circumstances when it comes to Covid-19. This would be a way, as well as these teachers to cover those expenses in addition, let alone others and the rest of the group... these additional expenditures, which, however, show respect and assess the work of pre-school teachers in on-call groups and special circumstances, including five-year and six-year training in the format that Mrs Šuplinska has come up with there. In any event, the Ministry should nevertheless consider that, if the system changes when learning remotely, State aid is state aid! – public funding in implementing reforms is very important and, I must say, even necessary as an air for breathing. While there was much talk about breathing here – to allow or not –, in this case this reform is to be welcomed. I call for support to be given to the proposal, reading everything that is written there (and not just criticising the sequence of letters or words), in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U187	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U188	Yeah, thank you. While Mrs. Muižniece places responsibility in her usual manner for supporting teachers and students' families to municipalities, teachers and students, and their families are purging, as anyone can and can, and is capable of, materially and emotionally. But what do I want to say? Remember that the New Conservative Party has very different words from works. And the promise to support its own restaurant, those working in its own restaurant and those working in this field, especially in the context with student and student support, is very important. And when you return your votes, please remember this vote and how the New Conservative Party (Mr Muižniece, Mr Znotiņš) voted to decide on additional support for educators and for additional support for pupils' families, because they will certainly vote 'no', thus showing their true face, showing their true attitude to education, to families, to children and to teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U189	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U190	Dear colleagues, Here we are now talking again about the Labour Law. With Mrs. Muižniece, we already had a discussion before a few sittings of the Saeima, talking about holidays, early holidays, and there we also found that it is not really the case that the Labour Act states that children also have a short school day, but it applies to teachers, so the number of hours... hours cannot be abbreviated in accordance with the Labour Act. And now we have come to the Labour Law section on the reimbursement of expenses. And with regard to reimbursement of expenses, the Labour Act states: “The employer is obliged to reimburse the staff member’s expenses which are necessary for carrying out the work under the terms of the employment contract or which are incurred with the employer’s consent, in particular those relating to the employee’s mission or the journey of work; the employee’s costs of moving to another place of residence...; the employee’s costs are due to the wear-out of the work equipment which he owns (which is used for the work contract)....” So we conclude that the work contract certainly does not provide for an emergency situation and that the work contract clearly does not... and the employer hasn't said anything... has given special consent to the use of the Internet by teachers, using their personal equipment to provide this distance training. Therefore, this proposal is in place, very rightly – it complements the Labour Law, specifies the specific... this situation, because, I repeat, we are talking about the Covid-19 law, and this Covid-19 law is special because we are currently trying to solve the various issues of these exceptional situations that have arisen. We cannot expect the Labour Law to provide everything. The work law has not foreseen everything. And Mrs. Muižniece's question. I hope she answers me. Mrs Muižniece said that it is necessary to talk, turn to the local authorities, so that the local authorities deal with this issue of compensation for teachers and parents. But I would like to remind you that the Riga administration is now fully responsible for the work of the municipality in the event of a crisis... in the situation. In this emergency situation, the administration was fully responsible for everything happening in Riga. And as far as we know, political leadership in this crisis... This City Council also consists of a representative of the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice is currently under the responsibility of the JCPOA. So I think it would be very simple for Mrs Muižniece to find out... immediately understand directly what a representative of her political force has done to compensate teachers and parents of children for these expenses related to distance training, especially given that, if the Labour Law already provides for this, the question is: how the Riga administration has implemented this Article of the Labour Law. Mrs. Monsieur, please don't be ashamed, we really want to hear the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U191	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U192	Colleagues, a few more considerations. One thing to take into account is that instead of a decision taken by the municipality as an employer, the government has taken a decision on the identification of an emergency situation. Consequently, it is also the responsibility of the Government to deal with partial compensation if necessary. How do the municipalities already do... what you can. I can even mention such a small municipality... parishes like Sventi – Svente secondary school has internet in each class, each class has computer equipment so that the teacher can work without spending his or her resources. The second recital, which must be taken into account, is indeed Article 112 of the Satversme, which says that in Latvia the state and not the municipality – the state! – provides free education. At one time, there was a discussion about whether to provide free books. Then I would say that it is quite clear to you at the moment, wearing an analogy – the Internet is the same teaching tool as books that cannot do without at the moment, and it must be provided by the state. And the third is very interesting – and we think about where the country invests or does not invest. We have not yet received a clear decision from the government on support for students, on support for other areas... Then already on 29 March the government authorised the use of mobile towers for tracking people, already on 15 April the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior listened to the first versions of the project on how we can track people, making it compulsory for them to make self-photos, send their location and provide a very good mobile device and very good internet connections to do so. Well, this is, in my opinion, a subject worth thinking about. Why the government is very ready, very hard to develop different tools to control and monitor people, but not to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U193	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U194	Dear Saeima! Here we see the level of populism until which some of our individual colleagues are ready to go. A few years ago, no one even thought that it would be necessary to finance electricity bills, for example, because, as a result, children would learn late, dark evenings during the winter season, if only using electricity or candle light. So far, no one has offered to finance this. There is now an offer of this kind. There has been no offer to finance pens, linears and other things. And now the substance is. In this case, I think these few Members are shooting in the wrong direction. Indeed, the state must help those of our children, whose family wealth does not allow them to access these smart devices, do not allow them to be connected to the Internet. And here I can say that I am pleased that we managed, in cooperation with Reinis Znotiņš, with the Ministry of Education and Science very quickly to find a solution for several thousands of children who had the opportunity to get free smart devices and internet connection. And now the Ministry of Education to Science continues this programme. With regard to the applicants for this, I would really like to hear how much you have done for the benefit of the children to go to some of your left-hand firms (Riga maps, nanowaters and others) to try to agree with them that part of the money they have made in previous years would be passed on to society and not just to themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U195	The name of the Member Anita Muižniece for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U196	Very short. Thank you, first of all, for having discussed at all, which I think is a very normal, correct process, how these issues should be dealt with. Second. Short answers. First, Mrs. Schvekov. Latvia... No, I'm sorry to Mrs Stepanenko. Latvia does not only consist of Riga. And even though there is a temporary administration in Riga at the moment, I think there is a point that has been done in Riga all this time to compensate Riga... help support your educators, students. And I think that straightly you can ask your husband about all those “good” decisions regarding teachers in Riga municipality. Second point. In my opinion, this was Mrs Švekova, who spoke about words and deeds. And I think I can say with complete certainty that all my words have been followed by works. And also in my municipality, which is not Riga, I have asked my municipal members to submit the following proposal – to compensate for this here. And as for the miracle, straight to the green and the peasant municipality... The representatives of the union party were those who objected sharply and began to tell us how we can not, what... how we can not track either the volume of the Internet or all other things. So, colleagues, once again I call – go to the municipalities and ask for funds. And that's the end of the thing, talking about... By calling on the Constitution, yes, a true state is committed to providing free education for our children. At the same time, the State pays grants to municipalities so that they can also cover these costs. So not everything from the top to the same level needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U197	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U198	Yeah, hello... Hello, colleagues! I wanted to say thank you once again to those colleagues who are really involved in a constructive discussion. Thank you to Mrs Muižniece, thank you to Mr Valaiņš, thank you to Mr Dombrava and others. And I also wanted to emphasise that obviously the opposition here is trying to manipulate things or is still quite incompetent and has missed many things. Well, for example, if we say that this proposal is actually divided into two parts, then parents and children, especially from socially less-favoured families, have been helped by the Ministry of Education and Science in such a way that more than 5400 devices have now been delivered with... where there is also an internet connection free of charge. And these have been sent out to municipalities even without a local government question. Data on other municipalities that are still lacking are also collected. It has also invested and continues to invest in strengthening school connections and strengthening Internet connections. And as far as educators are concerned, both with municipalities and schools is concerned. We have made various evaluations, and it is clear that first and foremost, school teachers have been helped, and second and foremost, the fact that teachers have all the rights and opportunities to work at school, so to speak, not only from home, but also at the school where this Internet connection is provided. So we shouldn't be misled here... And there are plenty of things. Also, let us say, parents are helped with the same “Your Class” channel, as we know, especially for parents with younger children, providing also other, alternative, internet-free access, how you can access this learning content and really help in the learning process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U199	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U200	Hello, colleagues! I would like to oppose Mr Dombrava this time, who pointed to my fellow Members as being populism. This ball could be played, pointing out that the same populism (only in the spirit and style of the National Alliance) is currently being done by Mr Dombrava. Because I guess he's forgotten that these free solutions for families, providing them with smart devices that were, of course, very good and easy to support, were provided for free lunch instead. Because it was this money that was used to provide these families with smart devices. Well, that is, no one left cent in this case has attached to the country. And, of course, you could be proud of it, but do not forget what pockets you take this money from, and that instead of these free smart devices, there could be a free lunch for families who really needed that lunch in this time of crisis. Second. The indication that, here's how you can imagine paying electricity, linears, pens and so on... That this is something unimaginable... how it can be required... What populism... I could send Mr. Dombrava to a large populist country called Finland, where students don't have to buy anything – either a linear or a pen, nothing, most importantly – until the school arrives. And that's all. And it just shows the famous Scandinavian model that Mr. Kariņš once called for here in the Saeima, speaking from the gallery that this is our ideal. So I will ask you, however, to see the picture in its entirety, not in the context of a single party and not to abandon to colleagues (constructive, opposition) something that exists only in your brain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U201	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U202	Thank you. To “give thanks” to yourself publicly, to praise yourself (Laughter). Thank you very much. is a very strong set of narcism signs. To give money, public money, and to take for yourself, and then mention the television broadcasts in question loudly, is also a sign of narcissism. I think it might be more appropriate for a mirror to be used as elements of the Saeima's debate at this time. Secondly. Yes, the Ministry of Education and Science, with the support of the government, bought a certain number of technologies, partly also with the use of holiday money, not giving it to all children, as required by law, and without 1-4 on Saturdays. class, especially under Covid-19 conditions, requiring municipalities to do so (Thank you!) That's what he's doing. Thirdly. The Internet is not a pen. Computer – maybe, but the Internet is really comparable at the moment to the teaching tool that the Education Law defines as a material of state-funded learning. Preparation of digital materials, good, but accessibility must be ensured. The fact that you provide free internet on your phone does not mean that the Internet is available for these children and that these children can only use it at a short time. Parents need support. And, fourthly, again. In fact, distance learning, or digital learning, is a trend of the 21st century and is welcome. In Latvia it was introduced in an emergency situation, so this is the funding from the country, both because of the emergency situation and because it is a new reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U203	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U204	Yes, colleagues, I really hoped for a constructive discussion, for arguments that could somehow further address the issue of the Labour Law, which we heard at the beginning, but unfortunately the coalition... The coalition got some signal suddenly... launched a market-level discussion. And now we hear of some populists, of family members, of all things, but not of a specific obligation to compensate for these expenses. And I really regret that Mr Dombrava is taking this proposal so seriously, because it was the National Union that tried to stand by for the Education Law on Child Feed to be enforced at the beginning. Then, somewhere, everything dragged down and forgot about children with disabilities, including their food, which is very, very ugly. And with regard to the temporary Riga administration. Yes, no matter what happened before, the temporary administration of Riga is fully responsible for all the decisions it takes. The temporary administration of Riga is responsible for everything that is currently happening in Riga. And the temporary administration of Riga consists of representatives of certain political forces. Finally, on the subject of words and deeds, I hope that Mrs Muižniece will always follow her “3 × 500” until the end of her career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U205	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U206	Yeah, colleagues. With regard to this proposal, I would like to say that, as I have already said in other speeches, we must also use this crisis as an opportunity. Option to introduce modern solutions, possibility to introduce some new approach to learning content. This proposal, too, is actually a road map to their new opportunity. If we look at this Article 112 of the Satversme and the judgment from which the consequences came, it is the State that provides... and the State ensures, through a targeted grant, the purchase of teaching aids for pupils and is forgiven by the local authorities for their part. This grant, in fact, is just like a holiday, to which the local authorities actually put most of their own... Similarly, in terms of the content of the training there is a third state grant, two thirds of which are applied by local authorities. But the story about us is now, not about municipalities. The story is about the Saeima. The story about the state's attitude and the state's attitude in this regard could symbolically show that we believe that the Internet is also a means of learning, because it is certainly a means of learning at the moment, it cannot be perceived differently. But what I've been thinking, as I said at the beginning of this modern approach, then in the long run, using these smart devices, mobile, and the Internet as such, we can look... develop as a more modern education system, for example, if we look... Do you know how much one book of chemistry or physics is paying now, which is compulsory to buy? Its costs are very high and, in the potential future, this could happen in a more electronic environment, so I call for this crisis to also be used as an opportunity to introduce modern solutions. And this proposal is really a road map in that direction. I call for the introduction, however, of the country. And you don't have to stop. We'll get to the municipalities. Now we are talking about ourselves, the state, so the state must provide support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U207	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U208	Dear colleagues, I am, above all, very positive today that the position Members are really speaking and trying to defend their position. That, I think, is very good. So that you don't think I can only appreciate Raivi Dzintara when he does it. Today, too, the Members of the New Conservative Party have found the courage to speak and defend their position. That, I think, is very good. Even though some Members cannot refrain from doing so... of what's the name... names of colleagues, but... well, it's the beginning, I think in time we can learn to talk to each other. Now, colleagues, on the substance of the proposal. Well, putting it all... what has been done in the Riga City Council, where the husband, wife, more... Well, let's ask ourselves a purely logical question – do teachers incur additional costs in this crisis situation? Or from that, they're more (A sound break.) ... They don't spend any time at school, but at home... Are they spending more on electricity, for example? Yes or no? Just think about it, please. Do – why do they incur these extra costs? Because of Covid-19, so that the emergency has been declared, because your colleagues have to teach them from home rather than from school because of their decisions, right? So the educators have more expenses, extra expenses due to this exceptional situation, because of your... Because of the law... for us, for the sake of the legislator, for decisions, right? And then, colleagues, look at you. So you're saying no to them either no... There is no extra cost, nothing needs to be compensated, nothing needs to be done, nothing. Look at you, colleagues. During this time or you more often (in the last three months)... Have you been in the Family less often or more frequently? Have you worked more from home? What about these transport compensations, colleagues? Are you still demanding them? To the same extent? How, for example, with your government ministers' representation money of EUR 1000 per month? Is there any representation at all? That's why you're here, colleagues, the same educators... And there are many of them, colleagues - we are talking about several tens of thousands of people, about voters. You tell them that you don't see that they have extra expenses, but when you don't have those expenses, or if they're smaller, you'll continue to cover them in full. Now think about this, please, how it looks to the people of Latvia – to both educators and not just educators. State or local government, colleagues... Ask yourself how the crisis is going on for us? A's not money, isn't it? Who borrows money? Municipalities? No, they don't even have to. The state borrows money. Is it not, therefore, that it is the state that makes money available to municipalities to help those who have additional costs as a result of the crisis who make your decisions? If you just think about it, colleagues, you'll have everything in your seats. And the right decision will be obvious. Even if they are not you who have seen this, even if it is a proposal from the opposition. You think it is logical not to support it. But if you don't support it, you'll only do it much worse for yourself in the long term. Because people out there – they're not stupid. They see what's going on, they understand it. Make the right choice, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U209	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U210	Dear colleagues! Dear teachers! Dear children's parents! And now very carefully. Mr Dombrava spoke in this debate with the red-white flag behind his back. And I would like to ask you a question: is it not populist to put the red-white flag behind you by voting against children with disabilities a moment ago and then saying that the National Association is a defender of demographics? The National Association has a Prime Minister's Adviser Debtor, who should stand and fall on this issue of education, with support for teachers and students. She's not! It's more than a year since, but there's only his EUR 2000 salary. (Applause) The other thing is that. Teachers don't help you in times of crisis. Children's parents, you're not helping in times of crisis either. I just looked at the transport expenses of the Saeima Members in April – when they were in remote sittings, working at the Saeima. Members have been paid EUR 8000 for transport in April. And in general, nearly 19 thousand euros have been paid out for compensation in April. Even when we Members sat at home, they paid us. You are not paid. Next thing. There were talks about Riga and so on. I would like to remind Mrs Muižniece, who has not been able to do so far, and even until the end of her career, political career, which will soon end, to do '3 × 500'... I would like to remind you that the KPP is the mayor's candidate Jurash, who should stand and fall as teachers and parents of children in Riga. He does not do this, he is not in this debate. He's an e-Deputy instead of... we do not know who is voting for him. And the same applies to the mayor's position in Stakis, who is located in this hall; he is not interested in teachers and students in Riga, he is neither present nor fallen for them. He sits and is an e-deputy who apparently fulfils his party's grey cardinal interests. He is not interested in your well-being or your education, although he should be interested in it as a mayor. And so, teachers, I very much invite you... You're intelligent, smart people. Teach everyone around you how to enter Latvia.lv/pv (collection of signatures), how to sign on on the Internet about the dismissal of the Saeima – about the dismissal of this Saeima! - To release the coalition. A coalition whose expenses have increased for people when sitting at home is not paid. Why? Because in other countries that are democratic, there are even court judgments that make the employer pay the employee's communal expenses because the employee works from home. Because the employer generates savings, but the employee working from home increases the cost of electricity, internet use and so on. Therefore, teachers, you as the most intelligent part of society, one of the most intelligent, train everyone around you, how you can sign up for the dismissal of this parliament when entering the Internet (via an Internet bank)! Otherwise, nothing will change here. And cease to believe those who praise themselves, that they have divided public money. They are all lies, they haven't shared anything, and that's what you feel in your wallets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U211	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U212	Hello, dear colleagues! It is not possible to disagree that Aldis Gobzems really has to be released from the Saeima, and in this context also training how to use e-signature and Latvia.lv could really be justified. But if we are talking about compensation for Members, I must say that I too... I did exactly the same thing: I opened up information on what Members' compensations were in April. And it was an unpleasant surprise to find that the four largest beneficiaries of compensation in April were precisely members of the opposition. Gundars Dauge with 821,35 euros, second place Jānis Tutins with 809,88 euros, third place – Edgars Kucins with 793,45 euros, and closes Top 4 Jānis Vucāns with 782,67 euros. Moreover, a large part of the transport costs are compensation: Gundars Many – 221 euros, Janis Vucanas – whole 332 euros. I have a question for you, dear colleagues. If you had to sit home, where were you, dear colleagues? Where did you go, and where did you spend that fuel? I'm asking... I call on each of these Members to now come to the debate and explain where he was going. How did many spend EUR 221, Tutin – EUR 229 per month, Kucin – EUR 193 per month and Vucana – EUR 332 per month in April? Where did they go? What sittings did they go to? It would indeed be very useful to find out, and I hope that there will also be an internal investigation into the opposition, who then went where and why. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U213	However, I call for a debate on proposal 15, not on the compensation of Members. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U214	I will stand by my colleagues who have just been named Feldman. He did not criticise Jušas, a mayor's candidate who did not stand as teachers and parents of children, but called Members who would now vote as teachers. Both Member Many and Member Tutin and all the others that Feldman called... Unlike Feldman, who will vote against teachers and parents of children, these Members will vote in favour. And that allows them to... First, it gives them a moral right to appropriate compensation. Let me explain. Many and all of the rest do not live in Riga. One lives in Ventspils, another – far away in Latgale... and they're coming. They've been to the Saeima every week! And one more thing. Mr. Feldman, when you ask your Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Transport about EUR 40 – buses... compensation? Although he has the biggest salary I think of us all here, he is not enough with his three or four thousand, he is demanding another EUR 40 in April for the bus! You forgot this, Mr. Feldman. What? And Mr Butan will also vote against the teachers and the parents of the child in Riga, even though he has the mayor's post candidate Jurash. So don't look out for those who will support teachers! Find a log in your own eye – for all “3 × 500”, for all votes against children with disabilities, against teachers, against the rest! You can also speak about EUR 40 in Bhutan in the political group. I admit that, after such a conversation, you will also... you will exclude from the group if you are already for such an honest attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U215	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U216	Colleagues, good afternoon! It is quite interesting for me to see that the new Conservative Group... the principal economist and, if I understood correctly, the author of the "3 × 500" proposal, which was supposed to have been introduced either last year or... You can't, so to speak, solve such a simple task. If Members need to go to Riga once a week, to the Saeima sitting (the sittings were not especially remote as we know), then there is the question: which Members will have the longest distance from their home to the Saeima and who will therefore spend more money on fuel? Now we know that Kurzeme and Latgale are the most distant from Riga, at least Mr. Feldman may not know. (Laughter) I would recommend, Mr Feldman, that you go to work as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. (Laughter) I think that the amount of your knowledge, at least... It seems that there may be a larger number than the current Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U217	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U218	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Of course, in this proposal, 15, there is... must be supported, because neither the local authorities nor the people themselves have set these limits; they have been set by the government... and confirmed them, of course, the Saeima. Therefore, in these special circumstances, we need to think about them. As regards Mr Feldman's empty debate... It must be understood that Members have not only been elected from Riga; Members have been elected by people from all over Latvia. So... in such circumstances, these Members are taking a long way from those living in Riga. According to Mr Feldman's logic, it would probably be possible to propose that the salaries of Members living in Riga be reduced by a certain part in order to cover these common costs. For all of us, a hundred Members, have been elected by a nation from all over Latvia, from all regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U219	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U220	Thank you. Listen very funnyly to the discussion on the particular proposal, moving to the remote... for driving from one city to another. It seems to me, however, that it would be wise to talk about what we are talking about, not to talk about different names. Speaking of computerization and about everything else, it was said that here, the Ministry of Education and Science (Thanks it huge!) has bought 5,000 computers to divide them into poor families. It would also not be a sin to remember the number of pupils in Latvia at all, because the distance training does not only apply to low-income families, the number of which is much higher than the number stated. In general – how many students do we have? And is that... This step addresses the whole problem... also with remote targets? I don't think so. We have not given up the public funding of Saturdays 1-4. for class students, putting it all completely on the shoulders of the municipality, and this step led to i positive, i negative consequences. The positive consequences are that municipalities are more responsible than the Ministry of Education and Science is looking at the problem and taking care of their students. But... There are very different approaches on the ground: in one municipality, ready-made product parcels, in the other municipality, appropriate cash benefits are granted to families of children, in the third, another solution is sought. Stay behind the stripes for children studying in other territories. This applies to the regions of Riga and Pierce: children are declared in one place but are studying in another territory.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U221	Thank you, thank you. The speaking time is over. The second speaking time has also come to an end.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U222	So... comes from...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U223	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U224	Hello, colleagues! I am looking at this discussion, and I am, of course, interesting. But I would call on Mr Gobzem to refrain from political campaigning for his hottest idea – the idea of the dismissal of the Saeima. In any case, he has the opportunity to dismiss himself and accordingly demonstrate his position. At the same time... Aldi, I would call for consistency, because I didn't really understand from your speech... You are rejecting Members' compensation. But at a time when it turns out that they are Members who are in opposition at the moment, you suddenly start to justify them. Aldi, I think you're sending very controversial, wrong signals to your constituents. More. I would like to point out that at a time when you feel that others are not talking about the proposal, you are allowing yourself to get out of the place and out of the podium. In turn, when you talk not about the proposal yourself, but do political campaigning and try to use children with disabilities for your campaign, it seems normal for you. However, I call for a more logical, coherent and understandable approach. On the other hand, addressing the Group's INTERPRETATION and the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union... Members of the opposition... I didn't really understand why you suddenly attacked Krišjānis Feldman. The noise. (Laughter) Not Krišjānis Feldmans (Noise.) ... It's not Krišjānis Feldman who accused you of something, you're disgusting Aldis Gobzems. He was the one who claimed that the hearings took place remotely in April and that the Members had received compensation, in his view, was not justified. I took this speech. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Noise.) Please contact your friend and colleague and supporter Gobzem! All claims to him. Let's go, colleagues! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U225	Dear colleagues, The debate on this proposal has already gone a long way (Noise.) the substance of the proposal. Please, let us stick to the 15th proposal. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U226	On proposal 15, I could, of course, go down to the level of some Members of the position. I could also talk about a man of a Member who received money for participating in the project Your Class, namely Members of the Hall – Gross, who never openly told the public – you know, yes, it's my husband, who is one parliamentary assistant at the same time in the Saeima, and we made politics a family business. I could go down to the level of some Members and accuse my colleagues that they have to live somewhere in Riga when they run a commission, for example, and they have to be in Riga. I could go down to that level, but I will not give up, but I will just ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. I understand that calling is pointless, but... Perhaps, however, you will vote for “for” parents and “for” teachers and think about your people, not about your party and the success of this party in the upcoming extraordinary elections of Riga City Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U227	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U228	In the Commission, proposal 15 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U229	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. – An offer from Members Švelova, Papules, Rubika, Goldbergas and Kucina! On – 30, against – 52, abstained – 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U230	16. – Proposal by Members Papules, Dombrovskis, Svekovs, Agešina, Lochmeles-Lunov, Kabanova, Gobzema, Stepanenko, Reiznieces–Ozolas, Vucanas, Dūklava, Rubika, Krišana, Cileviča, Bergmanis, Many and Liepāja. It provides for exemption from the study fee for Latvian citizens – students affected by the crisis. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U231	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U232	This proposal can be seen in the framework and in the context of the previous proposal on the credit system, which basically enabled those students who want to borrow to do so. This proposal concerns students who, for various reasons, do not want to borrow, realising that the emergency situation is at a certain end, so that there is a certain stage of the situation, not an eternal one, and for various reasons students may not want to borrow to pay for their studies. This proposal therefore defends... gives such students... the universities concerned... of course, by means of the state budget, exempt students from study fees, let them learn by relying on the State to compensate for this amount within a certain period of time. Please support this proposal, because this proposal also aims to support students' opportunities to study at Latvian universities rather than to study elsewhere. Otherwise, when assessing support, assessing the situation, and evaluating future reforms in higher education, they could choose a more structured system where studies are free and therefore drive... not to study at the Latvian university remotely, but really to travel to other countries and study there. I urge you to think about this type of support, which is very, very, very important at the moment. It is likely that the emergency situation will come to an end, and these students who do not want to borrow probably hope to return to the work they have done so far – despite the fact that the Saeima does not grant five percent VAT to those sectors that currently most often allow students to combine learning with work. I call for support for students. Students, follow, please, and see how your requirements are met – whether they are fulfilled or not! Do it even if the coalition will now vote against students! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U233	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U234	Dear students, think logically now. The coalition will vote against paying your study credits during the crisis. They will vote against. Then Daniels Pavļuts or Staķis, the candidate for the mayor of Riga, or Jušas, the candidate for the mayor of Riga, or someone else... Those who are also those national opinion... For example, about Latvia... With flags behind the back... And they will say: “How do we support students! How we want to have a smart youth here!” And so on. Then, dear student, remember this day, remember this vote! And remember one thing – that duality is very easy to see. And the duality is visible in these votes - votes against you, against your interests. You can change it. You're young. You can use the Internet. I'd advise you to go in... Don't laugh, it's really serious! I would advise you to enter Latvia.lv/pv (collection of signatures) and sign up for the dismissal of this Saeima. Because the tragedy that's happening here... I don’t remember exactly, but I think that film is called “Stop and more stupid”. The film is titled “Stop and more stupid” and contains an episode: Jim Carrie is in one room with another actor, and they talk to each other on a mobile phone. One room. And it was that joke how stupid it could be. There is also in this sitting of the Saeima: we all sit in the Saeima Hall, but we talk with each other through headsets, via computer and something else. (Laughter) It's nothing different from the film Stupendous and even stupider. Well, I haven't seen anything stupid in my life! Well, maybe "3 × 500" is even stupider... (Laughter) But let's assume it's a formal promise they ever made... will continue until the end of his political career. Because then there's no need anymore... Therefore, dear colleagues, look at the work! Young people, look at the work of Members. Don’t listen to those sweet speeches when you come and say, “We are liberal, we are for education, we are for better in Latvia!” But in fact, those people who now vote... they are just for their personal benefit. They're not about... They're not interested in you. They're not going to debate. Look who has applied for this debate. There are no candidates for the position of Mayor of Riga, although education issues should be their priority. A Staķis, who says he is a patriot, a landguard and not yet, father of children and owner of a cafe in the center of Riga... he is voting against restaurants, he is voting against students, he is voting as he is told by his sponsors. You don't see that? And Yusch! Yurish at all... He's just... as we read in the press, only the bandits are related. He has no time for students. He has no time to solve problems that are important to people and that need to be addressed. And then he begins to be defended by Mr. Feldman, who has a little math... Well, obviously, the problem is... And Mr. Rancan, who doesn't understand that by defending teachers and students... it is not contrary to the question that... I could say that Members are granting themselves compensation. It doesn't turn off each other... I referred to it as an example, Mr. Rancan. Next time, maybe, look at what other Members tell you. Because students probably understand better than you, what is happening at the moment. This coalition is voting against all people of Latvia – in all sectors. Therefore, Latvia.lv/ pv... Internet Banking (Laughter) ... You can enter your bank account and, by signing up, you can vote in favour of parliamentary dismissal. Approach this issue tragically. Because what is happening here is – “simple and even stupid”. Nothing else can be called it! Because you can't be angry anymore. You can only look at it and smile at how it all happens. Because it's going to collapse. What they build here will come to an end soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U235	Colleagues! It's time for a break. Members are currently registered. Registration has been successfully completed. Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U236	Dear colleagues, We keep sitting after the break. On the agenda – draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19”. Debate on Proposal No 16. Please activate the debate list. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U237	On this proposal, I would like to say: of course, it is interesting to express yourself on a subject such as support for students, how important it is, but it is also important to be aware of these facts... I invite everyone to open the Latvian Student Association's website lsa.lv, where there are really quite worrying numbers... The Latvian Students' Association has just done this questionnaire. And at the time of the questionnaire (in the context of the Covid-19 crisis, as far as I understand it has been done) really a very large number of students, 11 percent of those surveyed, see that they could leave their studies in the context of this crisis. I think it would be a very great tragedy for the country if that were to happen. That is why, now that we have come to this debate, I will of course support it - I will definitely support it! – this proposal and I will call on you to find any solution, as well as call on the coalition to take responsibility for the situation that has arisen. Because, I think, anyone who is studying – both who has finished the university this summer, and the one who will finish the studies – wants to find a job, of course, to pay back this study fee. And that's not that simple. Well, try to find someone's work right now! You can ask – maybe someone close... Maybe a student is familiar... Well, ask what it is – to find a job at the moment. All the big companies have now stopped, as far as I know, any engagement measures. Development plans. After discussions with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry regarding the mood of entrepreneurs... With regard to new investments, the situation with regard to business expansion is very, very bad, and this will, of course, also be reflected in the labour market. In this case, we are facing a very high risk. Today, I have mentioned several times that these people are threatened to escape from Latvia. And imagine for yourself what the loss to the state of Latvia is, that the person who passed through the entire education system has acquired higher education... that precisely for these small reasons... It's about getting the study fee back... Indeed, at the moment, the situation is definitely not on their side, they also simply do not have this opportunity... Put yourself in her skin! The same story is about airBaltic pilots, the Academy of Pilots, where... People have taken huge credits to go out for this Academy. And now that the planes don't fly where they're doing this job... They have no chance at all. As well as here, any student who has taken credit... and I'm glad that there are many new colleagues in the Saeima who can remember the time when... Most of them have taken this credit. I've also taken credit, and I've had guarantors. I know how it is – then give their loan back. You have to have some income right away, look for some job. Well, that's a challenge! At present, this is very burdensome in any area. If you've finished financial matters... having completed higher education... Now try to find a job... That's why I'm calling... Colleagues, especially from the coalition, may be sufficient, let us say so, to show themselves to the New Conservative Party! But really, really... I also call for us to engage in this debate with colleagues in the Group's YOUTH Unity and to tell you what your vision is if you reject this proposal. Don't stand by! Participate in the debate and present your vision of how this problem will be solved. Because it is a problem, no one will deny it. Nobody can say that this is not a problem. But there must be a clear solution. Unity, you are a Prime Minister party. Don't be sidelined in these discussions and pretend it doesn't apply to you! This applies to you most directly. As Prime Minister, give your vision! Because, as we know, the New Conservative Party... to previous proposals... Mr. Znotiņš explained a lot, but... The Ministry of Finance, it's in your hands! Give you your vision in this debate, too, so that students can listen to any answers today. Otherwise, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U238	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U239	Yeah... Well, first of all, I would like to mention that we discussed these proposals at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, and Mr Znotiņš also presented the event – the planned one... What the Ministry of Education and Science intends to do... at the same time as expressing the hope that this support package will be seen already this week at the government meeting. As far as I am aware, nothing has been looked at so far, and I also see that these support measures are on the agenda. Once again, therefore, there is no guarantee that the government will take decisions in such a smooth manner. In my opinion, it would be wise for the Saeima to provide at least a minimum set, it would also be an additional motivation for the Ministry of Finance – to support the efforts of the Ministry of Education and Science. Another thing I would like to mention. It seems interesting to me that times of crisis are also times of opportunity, so there are also opportunities to fulfil part of our promises. Now, on a break, I looked 13. Saeima in electoral programmes. At least two forces – National Association and Development/About! – have included free higher education in their programmes. The National Association has mentioned (in my opinion quite correct) that there is this problem that students can learn abroad free of charge, while Latvia still has a combined payment system, where part is provided by the state, part – by the students themselves (to be taken by credits). Of course, this motivates people to leave. I think that this situation will be particularly difficult now if people, those students, have had to show off because they have lost their jobs or cannot find them. Perhaps in the autumn – in September, when the borders will open and when the new school year will begin – they will think twice, whether to stay in this university or to look elsewhere for happiness. Development/About!... Yes, he has ensured that... has planned and promised to its constituents public funding for higher education so that it is free of charge, accessible to all. Well, my fellow Members, I do not see that there would be a serious plan in this four-year period to ensure free higher education. But now you have at least the chance to fulfill your promises for a few months. That's a great opportunity! I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U240	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U241	Thank you. I too... I will turn to the sensible parts of the coalition, which I may say, because the JCPOA discussion shows that there is in fact no great experience and no intellectual potential. But don't take evil! That sounds like this after today's debate. I'm going to turn to the rest of the smartest part. Yesterday we learned that additional 2.9 billion will be available to Latvia. Billion! This will be the European Union's funding, which will not be a loan, but will be as untapped as otherwise. I have a question: would not the students then be supported in this section with one small – small! – support for exemption from study fees for those who have suffered in the Covid-19 situation? The proposal also provides for this. The question is, then, is the ruling coalition of these 2.9 billion... Do you not really see an opportunity to support the students? And the other. I understand that Mr. Znotins... There was no extensive programme there. Four points were mentioned in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and four points seem to have not been agreed in the coalition. But one of Mr. Znotiņš' proposals was to allow 1000 students to participate in university or university research programmes. Even if 2.9 billion will be spent on research programmes, I have a question – who will then be the doer if students either do not continue their studies or choose to study in other universities outside Latvia? Who will then participate in those research programmes? In fact, the proposal calls for support for students in need of socio-economic support. And again at 2.9 billion. Well, if everyone leaves Latvia, students too, then... where will there be a workforce, to whom will you spend this money? You will not refund all the money from airBaltic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U242	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U243	Dear colleagues, It's very short. There are two issues: one is about our programme, and the other is my comment on the substance of this proposal. With regard to our programme. Yes, we have mentioned that Latvia must go to free higher education, but – is this possible without wider reforms of higher education? Has the previous government, which had been a very serious player in the fisheries sector, carried out such reforms? Can we talk about free higher education when the number of our educational programmes is completely inadequate for the population of Latvia and the number of universities is completely inadequate for the population of Latvia? That is one question. And the other is about the proposal itself. How can we release Latvian citizens, but do not release other citizens of the European Union... Is that so? This would run counter to all the principles and foundations of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U244	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U245	Dear students! I can't understand. Dear students! What I want to say to you is the following: You have just heard the fact that the groups for Development/About! Member Maria Golubeva says that we should not defend our students by looking at some bureaucratic things. And sometime after that she will tell you about education – how she defends. Although we do not even know what 1 September will be for us this year. Even so little done! And that's why... so you understand: dear students, today will vote against you. The only way to defend yourself is to enter Latvia.lv/ pv website and sign for the dismissal of the Saeima – for the dismissal of this Saeima, which votes against your interests. If you were students from another country, then... another country in Europe would support you, another country in Europe would drive and recruit you to study elsewhere. Your country does not support you because you allow it because you may have been careless, perhaps you have believed in various PR campaigns and read a team of fans of Unity on Twitter. But open your eyes! Open your eyes and look at those people you... outside the parliament pour honey into the ear, but in the parliament acts against you, vote against you. Look at the works and don't listen to words. Dear students, Latvia.lv/ pv – collection of signatures for 13. Retirement of the Saeima! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U246	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U247	I would like to oppose Mrs Golubeva on the question of whether we could afford... I think our country might be able to afford it calmly... Especially if we read our media news. Here already mentioned 250 million – Latvia's state support to airBaltic. One of the latest news is that airBaltic plans to save EUR 5 million over a six-month period with a reduction in the remuneration of the board and board. Imagine five million euros in six months – just because the salary will not be paid by Mr Gauss and the other members of the council will be reduced by only 20 percent! And they are proud to announce that they will give up, for example, the cost of bonuses for the time of the crisis, because it is the bonuses that make it possible for Mr Gauss to earn EUR 1 million a year, for example, in 2017 and 2018. If we save five million in the same company in just half a year, where the country participates with its own capital, why can we not invest, invest this money, save airBaltic, our students, our future brains, especially now that the European Commission has made very clear recommendations to us? One recommendation reads: “Think about the development of green economy and digital technology business.” And that is why I do not agree with those people who are blaming, for example, the fact that Kiril Solovjov was developing this programme. That's great! I want us to have hundreds of Cyril Solovjows who will now receive training in Latvia at least for a period of crisis free of charge. And so that these Cyrils solovjowi become our export product and help Latvia earn in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U248	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U249	Hello! This Saeima, 13. The Saeima is the youngest – by age... Young people came – with education... As they themselves said: “We have European education, we are wise.” And every time they showed it. And now we're also asking... There will also be smart, educated people – because people in any country need young, strong and educated people. It also depends on the economy. What we want to invest today, giving them a helping hand, then they will return. And if we invest a million there, then three or four million they will bring back – each of them. It is possible for us today to show our good desire for young people, so that they do not leave so that they study in our universities, where the country takes care of them and not study there, in Sorbon, or in Denmark, where free higher education is provided. Because it's just so! – we can complement our national budget with taxes, with inventions. And Latvia will live. That is why the European Union may help them as well... And we were also given those 2.9 billion. This is about what Regina Ločmele-Lunova spoke about earlier – that 43 thousand students... Yes, please help them! Young people, if you don't help them today, then, you know, they won't believe you either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U250	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U251	Colleagues! As this debate has touched on reforms, Mrs Golubeva and especially on Development/About! I would like to say that, whatever the case, one reform should start on its own and only then be able to talk about other things or not. In this case, I think it is important to emphasise the fact that during the time of the fisheries, the area of transit did not survive the Kraha. During the ZZS... On any subject, it can be seen that, however, there was a much more understandable governance than it is. Look at your field... Well, for example, in the area of health! What's going on? This mask buy-up... Well, I think... Buy puppets with links for millions of euros – this does not indicate that there is any sense at all about what management means. And then call it a success story?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is rather regrettable. So look at what is happening in your home. I really call on you to do something before you criticise others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U252	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U253	In the Commission, proposal 16 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U254	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. – Proposal by Members Papules, Dombrovskis, Svekovs, Agešina, Lochmeles-Lunov, Kabanova, Gobzema, Stepanenko, Reizniece-Ozola, Vucana, Dūklava, Rubika, Krišana, Cileviča, Bergmanis, Many and Liepāja! On – 29, against – 43, abstained – 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U255	17. – Proposal by Members Papule, Dombrovskis, Švekova, Agešina, Rubika, Lochmeles-Lunovo, Cileviča, Stepanenko, Vacana, Reiznieces-Ozola, Kabanova, Tutina, Goldberga, Kucina, Bergmanis, Dūklava and Liepāja, which provides for changes in student scholarships in 2020 and 2021. In the Commission, the 17th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U256	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U257	Thank you. This is also one of the proposed systemic solutions, which are encouraged by the students themselves, so – the Latvian Students' Association. And in every case... Looking at what politicians and entrepreneurs say about how long it takes to get out of the Covid-19 crisis... Don't know when we're actually going to deal with this epidemic... That is why, in the proposal, Members propose that this be done in a slightly longer time period than just before the end of the crisis, with a period of at least two years... supporting those students who receive state budget grants, so those whose success has been assessed and is good. And the scholarship can only be received by those who are really good and higher than good evaluation success. For these students – to change the amount of scholarships from currently less than 100 euros per month to 200 euros... in the relevant study programme... and... EUR 300... the relevant study programme to support them in times of crisis. If the Saeima is now... And then maybe Reira or the Wittenberg group... if we do not support any other possibility to cover student fees, at least by increasing the scholarship we would give students support – especially in this situation where they cannot work. They cannot work in the usual field, that is, in the area of hotels and catering, where students can usually combine training with work – they cannot work precisely because this area has now stopped and does not actually work. And if it starts again, then... According to the speeches of politicians, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and the head of government, this crisis will not end so quickly and these industries will not recover so quickly. Therefore, I call on the reasonable part of the coalition – not those who have intellectual problems or some other problems, but the reasonable part! – to support students and not to vote against students. In this case... Raising the only real source of legal income for students... This would mean that you are in favour of raising students' pay for their work. I call on you not to vote against, but to assess... and remember your study years. I don't think anyone else could help you, just you... Dismisses Your arrogance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U258	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U259	Colleagues! The offer of the Ministry of Education and Science is also very similar... Increase in grants from EUR 99.06 to EUR 200. As I said, it has been discussed in various forms of coalition, and it has in principle been supported by the coalition. That's why I'm reminding you again... and appeal also to members of my coalition – the YOUNG Unity... And I'm also addressing Mrs. Chash, who's right now... He's going to talk... calling on them to go to the Ministry of Finance and ask them not to wear more... do not hesitate on the issue of this aid, but really grant students the support that is necessary. There have been quite a lot of indecisions in the work of the Ministry of Finance, and now all coalition partners are responsible for making the Ministry of Finance take these decisions more quickly, more efficiently and help immediately.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U260	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U261	Ray Znotin, name in place! But I would like to make another comment. I was careful to make a comment from the Parliamentary Secretary at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission when we discussed this proposal... And there is also information from the public that this EUR 200 grant will be awarded to students with high academic achievements. I think that will be a mistake if I now grant beneficiaries who have already actually qualified for a scholarship... and that step would simply increase it from 99 to 200 euros... that the desire to start sorting according to academic achievements. I do not think it is the right time. Like Mr Zakatistova, I think it is the wrong moment to sort taxpayers into the wrong, the right, the good. This can be done in peacetime. There is now a crisis situation, and in a crisis situation, there is a need for other solutions, a much more favourable approach and, more importantly, a much more rapid response. While you are divorced while you still agree with each other, the train may be gone. I don't know if you really planned this sorting, as I said. I understood this from the comments made in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, but I have a call to think about it in any case, and then, when you take a decision in the government, to give up it if it does (not to be heard.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U262	The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U263	Hello, colleagues! Yeah, thank you. I would like to start by thanking the opposition for this proposal, because the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs listened to the Latvian Students' Association and has heard these stories about students... not all students have the same financial capacity. When we talk about increasing the scholarship just for good luck, it should be borne in mind that this success, often because of the lack of success, is also due to the fact that students have to work during their studies and this work, of course, also changes what success they have. Therefore, my second thanks go to both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Education and Science, where they are already working to find this solution. I would simply like us to remember that it is perhaps more necessary to have social grants in order to allow students with insufficient financial income to study. Yes, we must admit that we do not currently have fully state-paid education, that there is a mixed model. So that these children or our young people do not leave school because they are unable to provide housing and nutrition and need to work, they can receive such support. I understand that this solution is coming to fruition in the near future and this aid will be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U264	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U265	Hello, fellow Members, again! I would also like to say, well, like thank you for this proposal. I completely agree with the theme that students need scholarships and scholarships not only because they are currently Covid-19, but students need reasonable scholarships all the time. But as always is that big “but”. In my opinion, its approach and the way in which this is to be addressed must be addressed in a complex way. There is a need to find opportunities for students to learn. Indeed, there was a call to remember how each one of us studied. I've had this experience... happiness has been three times, and I know how it is to work night and study, and I definitely add that I understand the students who are experiencing this. That is why, for the time being and now, I really have great confidence in IZM's current offer, I am relying on those joint agreements on a complex and balanced offer to support students, but in the future, we need to change the complex. As was also pointed out for these good achievements... We also know very well that we awarded... students often stay behind the footnotes on the budget. Also those who have very high ratings like 8.5 and so on, just because this place is as much as it is. It is necessary to deal with the complexes. I think that such a complex solution, such an approach, can be achieved through ministries, not through individual proposals. But in any case, I very much hope for this support from the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U266	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U267	Colleagues! Yes, “as thank you” from Mrs Muižniece's point of view sounds really good. If we talk about promises, then we can read that actually this... The Commission has been dealing with these social grants since October. If the coalition cannot agree with each other, if the coalition uses the Saeima sitting at the moment to address each other, then I think something is wrong with you. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U268	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U269	Colleagues! I'd like to call... Thank you very much to Mrs Chash. By the way, yes, it is precisely the new Unity that should be involved in this debate. Thank you for doing this and also giving you your vision. Of course, what is important, I call again to look at the website lsa.lv. There really is very interesting information collected specifically about students and about this problem. There is also a letter (on 12 May), which has been sent to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Education and Science, where all these problems have been addressed, by providing survey data and by showing the real data how serious the situation is. That is why I would call for the moment when we say that, yes, it must be, well, there is... a version that is often implemented either that “bla, bla, bla, bla”... Many, many wise words, and finally nothing. That is why I would also call for students to be respected here. By saying that there will be support, indeed, in the near future to accept it, as it has now been three weeks, and there is a solution from the opposition. The coalition believes that there will be a vision and a proposal. The key is that this offer does not come too late. Otherwise, the situation is that we will once again read about billions to strengthen the economy... Here a very specific question – students, a countable entity, who would not really require huge expenses per month compared to other expenditure on the part of the government – should be supported, implemented and done as quickly as possible. Because, as the survey shows, income for students... it is not for such a longer period of time. Perhaps a very large number of students have already, in principle, reached the end of their income, in my opinion. So thank you and I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U270	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U271	I call on you to be careful, because now that thanks is not that it will be possible for yourself to say it again to the narcissi everyone, but now starts to say thank you to each other. But you have not yet made your decision and have not voted in favour of this proposal so that you and yourself can really thank you. I'm calling you not to get into this... In such cunningly placed traps and not engaging in narcissism and viewing mirrors. The systemic approach. During the budgeting process, we proposed a system approach – to increase the amount of state grants for all students. In this case, this proposal is enshrined in the Covid-19 law precisely because, as I said, students no longer have the opportunity to work and earn additional living and the scholarship can often remain as the only source of income to study in Latvia and to continue the training, perhaps without taking credit. The above system... Well, you have time. The emergency will come to an end, and in the meantime you can make quite good systemic proposals, also using 2.9 billion to resolve the student scholarship and raise it to 500 levels as well. That could be a good fourth in 500 and only, which could perhaps also be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U272	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U273	Dear colleagues, Talking about sizes, naturally, 200 and 300 – it is much lower than the living minimum today. What is it? The first is that it is quite difficult to wait for a government decision or for the Ministry to develop some solutions, subject to different conditions. Today, this generation is an opportunity, using (forgive me, for their combination of words) their pandemic situation, to solve a problem that is extremely important not only for students, but for society as a whole. Because it's... it is not a fee for acquiring knowledge, it is not a salary. It is a help for people to get an education, and it is a sign that the country is interested in its future, the people of the future. I call for support for this proposal, without waiting for some new draft law to appear in the depths of the ministries with some new additions, restrictions or perhaps even extensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U274	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U275	I am listening to the debate that the coalition is already saying to itself... that says thanks. I agree that we should change the agenda. It's not going through here with thanks, it's supposed to be some kind of... To present three star orders at the Saeima sitting or at least the diplomas, as Martin Bondar Reira gave with the order. Yes, and the order was. Let's say that... I think the BIP... KPP without Hordes... Well, something is not promised in this situation, when people have ended the money that they don't support. It is high time to start sharing orchards. But before you split the order and before you vote again "no" this proposal, which is aimed at supporting students, perhaps at at least you, Mrs Muižniece and Mr Znotiņš, one former and one of the existing Parliamentary Secretaries in the Ministry of Education and Science, could explain what will then be the next year of study? Well, at least for the school year you could explain to your parents some information. Perhaps you could explain such things to Latvian children's parents and students as well, why a more important issue for the Minister of Education was not to support financial students, but to personally agree on prices that are not fully in line with the market situation at the moment with the office of attorneys, in order to court with the University of Latvia and to pay all the entos bills without any criticism. Could you explain that? Because, Mrs Muižniece, it all happened when you were Parliamentary Secretary. Maybe that money should have been for students already then you win and help them at that time. Mr Znotiņš, and you should say what responsibility you will be asking from your boss Mrs Šuplinska for the use of such money. You should say that in the debate. Again, I think it would be very important before you vote against the students again, to explain the following. It's about... if we're talking about solutions... Explain why students have to wait, just like any other group in society? Why should we wait, why can we not help now? Why will it be decided and decided again, and so on? Why do you have budgetary resources to receive new officials from the Ministry of Education and Science now, during the crisis, but do you have no funds for students? Perhaps you could explain about the husband of Member Zalytė-Gross who is getting a job during the crisis (he, by the way, probably also had one of the Members, Znotiņš time, assistant), to explain that you have money for family business and support for the members' families, but you don't have any students. You are responsible for the education system, and you cannot explain one question: neither for children's holidays, for the Internet, for supporting students, nor even for the school year, as it will rightly conclude next year, nor for supporting teachers. You're just promising! You promised “3 × 500” which you did not implement. You are promising support for teachers, which you will not introduce either. You voted against the increase in medical fees, and in that spirit. Why Do You Believe? Do you work to make yourself proud and receive chords? We can give you all kinds of medals. What we need! We will vote in any sitting of the Saeima if it is a challenge for your life – to receive orders. I will also vote to have the Orders – purely because it sounds absolutely tragic that you are now proud of some achievements. People see what life is like in Latvia. Stop bigening yourself, do something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U276	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U277	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, However, I want to go back to 17. – the nature of the Members' proposal. In particular, our proposal is to supplement the Coronavirus Anti-crisis Law with a new verse: for all students... for people in Latvia to increase the amount of the scholarship to 200 euros per month (basic grant) in 2020 and 2021 and to 300 euros at the highest level. At the moment the situation follows that students studying in the Bachelor's study programme study... the amount of the scholarship is below 100 euros per month, i.e. 99.60 euros. This is a purely symbolic size that does not belong to the consumption basket. But for students of the Master's and Doctor's study programme – only 113,83 euros. At the same time, we already have educational institutions that pay their students a much higher grant, namely the National Defence Academy pays after tax 900 euros for scholarships for cadets. We are living in civil and civil society, and it seems that civil specialities also need to be provided with appropriate funding, not eight times less than those of future militaryists. Here, too, I would like to give a small parallel from my experience. When I joined the Riga Polytechnic Institute, my scholarship was 40 rubles, but my classmate who joined the Alksnis Military School had 7 rubles and 50 capes. Now everyone is talking about the fact that the USSR was a highly militarised society. Unfortunately, it seems to us that the officer's salary is much higher than that of civilists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U278	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U279	Thank you. I have to say, lose listening to Mr. Gobzem, who is here to be a great fighter of righteousness. At the same time I have incentives in his income statement, I see a strange row under “Other”, where is 139 003 euros... 139 thousand euros of unspeakable origin of the transaction, well, there are some gifts of land and so on. Who has been bestowed? Why is the gift given? Why don't you explain, Mr. Gobzem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U280	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U281	Thank you. It is now obvious that when dealing with students' financial problems in the context of the Covid-19 crisis and emergency situations... It's very interesting... The Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Welfare were asked to hear Mrs Čakša, who pointed out that the ministries responsible for finding solutions were the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Welfare. In this way, and in fact, starting to denounce the real reasons why students still have not received support and will probably not get to the specified stage, because the students are now, in my opinion, a coin that is now divided or played out. Which of the political forces will be the best one to provide funding... whether or not to grant funding. Who will be in the role of a grandson who tries to do something, speaks, debates, makes meetings, discussions, plans, but does not really accept anything and is unable to accept it. I therefore draw attention to the fact that those who are actually responsible are the New Conservative Party, but the good will be the New Unity, which will provide after some time, most likely before or shortly after the Riga City Council elections (if they win these elections), as well as material and financial support for students. In my opinion, it is high time for the new conservative party to become much more active in protecting and defending the interests of students, educators, teachers and students – financial, emotional, intellectual – and in general, it is necessary to support this area rather than allow for the manipulation of information and the acquisition of additional points for coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U282	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U283	Dear students! There was evidence here that the UK has quite a problem with education. Mr. Eglišs objectively is the second in the row behind Mr. Riekstins – let's say, from the other end of it, of course, on education issues. And why? Because Mr Eglitis was on the board or on the board, either, in the port of Ventspils, if I am not mistaken, in his time and in fact, as a result of the action, as we see, this port is empty. Everything is not more than there. And why is he using such a student... the terminology that he is speaking in the debate? He's not talking about the proposal. He's trying to offend me and like him, because he's by nature, dear students, there's nothing to say to support you. He cannot criticise his party members that they vote 'no', he cannot criticise ministers who do not understand what Pandora's bear means. He does not criticise his fellow Members, who have only empty promises and who are only large, as they once again have received the warrant somewhere or are going to get another time. He does not criticise the fact that mayor Jurash does not join Riga's students, Riga's students and so on. The only reason he is in politics is to get the benefit of himself, not to act for you, dear students. Remember this always and forever: look at these votes, as they always vote against you in all successive votes. This is crucially important. Mr Eglišs, I am calling for a little bit of convenience in order to reach the Riekstin level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U284	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U285	Hello! I... I can't feel like a hostage in this situation. I... I am sorry, dear students, Latvians, that I am – I am sorry, but indeed! – such a person was drawn to the Saeima, whose name is Gobzem. I'm actually listening for seven hours now, I think some kind of verbal floods of a marasmatist schizophrenic. This is not just what I do, but it is what all Members of the Saeima do: we must listen to it. And the opinion is about anything and in any case, and... I'm sorry, dear students! This man was once a teacher who asked himself to be called Love Students. ‘ Call me to Love!” That's what he said. And then he invited men's students to listen to music discs at home. (Laughter) And now will definitely decide and speak again, and so on, but how can you?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dear Mrs. Papules, Only one person sitting in the big room is involved in drugism. I went from the big hall today to this hall so... Dear Ones, that I may not cause any damage to your front crater in any way! That's why I'm here right now and not where you are. Well, how much can you just embarrass the same thing? Latvia.lv/... And then... How much can you do? Will there be peace or will there be no peace? It won't be, of course. I think this is quite... All Latvia laughs. Then the web-servers... You will be the only person, Member, I do not know, in Europe who will be blocked from having access to the Internet. It's the only one! You're like... Not even heated, but now... Why should the whole of Latvian society look at any manifestations of schizophrenia, which are becoming more, more and more?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I understand that I am sorry now, but I am in breach of the code of ethics of the Saeima Members and I cannot talk about human health... But there's too much! There's too much! We're like hostages in this whole really nightmare... verbial... from Member Gobzem. Absolutely! How much can you just talk about nothing? Write your own writings to your Facebook dedicated voters! Live in your imaginary flask and let me work! We have not even gone through the first item on the agenda. How much can you do?Oh, I've been silent for a long time. Let's go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U286	Colleagues, I call on you to remember that there is work going on here in Parliament. I call on you to choose the words in the debate, and I call for you to treat your colleagues and your fellow people with respect. Colleagues, this is Parliament! I call for a debate on the substance and on the subject. Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U287	I thank the President for her call for respect, and I fully agree with this call. I would like to point out to individual Members... from the opposition... such a double standard and hypocritical logic. Someone just points to facts that are unpleasant to the opposition, so suddenly these people who point to it... It turns out they lack education and intelligence. Well, very interesting logic! When you could ask, among other things, if your, opposition, intellectual part or one that has declared itself intellectual has been clarified with these compensations... On a break? But I would like to ask Mrs Papule. You have been in high positions in the Ministry of Education and Science for many years, including the Deputy State Secretary. Perhaps you could explain to the students whether and how you fought for increasing your scholarships during your time. You are currently one of the largest student defenders. Question – how have you been successful with all this before? I would very much like to hear the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U288	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U289	However, I would like to return to the substance of the proposal and point out the arguments why this proposal should be supported. I will just read what the students prepared, who created the campaign “I want to study!” with a view to drawing the attention of policy-makers to the need for students to help tackle the effects of the Covid-19 crisis. They need support during their studies in the future. As has already been mentioned today, a survey has been carried out in April, which revealed an alarming picture that almost 10 000 students in Latvia could stop their studies due to the consequences of the virus. In order to reduce the impact of the crisis on the higher education system and to avoid the accession of students to the growing number of unemployed, we politicians must conceptually support the idea of establishing a special grant fund for students most affected by the crisis. However, this is not enough. This is pointed out by students themselves, as difficulty in accessing studies is not a new problem, and this crisis only highlights the continuing lack of social support mechanisms in higher education. This forces many to work in parallel with their studies, but does not allow those who are less well - provided to study at all. In Latvia, alongside studies, almost half full-time students regularly work and the average number of working hours per week reaches 31 hours, which is one of the largest in Europe. In addition, 48 percent work in a non - study field, thus not gaining valuable experience in the selected field, but losing time that could be devoted to a full study. If you remember, we already had a debate here, in the Saeima, when there was not yet a crisis. The National Association pointed to this when it fought against the possibility for foreign students to work full time. Here, I would like to point out a logic that is in contrast to the current logic of the Ministry of Education and Science that only those who are well-educated are eligible for a scholarship. You see, if half of the students work so much and they don't have time to learn normally, we can't now ask them for the highest ratings. I think we need to rely here on us now to give them this scholarship, to give them support and opportunity to learn normally and well, and only then, after the end of the crisis, to demand that those assessments be appropriate. But to ask now – it would be, well, just really sad about young people who are already under very great stress. Unfortunately, they are what they are. These are children in the 1990s and late 1990s who find it particularly difficult to accept any stress situation. Let's help our children! Let's help students! Let us give them an advance, give them the opportunity to learn normally, and prove that they have the knowledge and the ability to learn well. Let's give students scholarships!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U290	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U291	Dear colleagues, It's going to be more like a procedure than... not on the proposal... the substance of the proposal. Well, I'm with you...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U292	... on the procedure to talk... to the proposal we are... ( You can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U293	Yeah. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Why didn’t you stop the village?” Thank you. Impression: “You’re not in the hall. You're not in the hall, yeah.” ) I want a procedure, yes. I'm... We can also after... We can also follow the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U294	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U295	I just wanted to point out the following to Mr Rancāns: Mrs Papules is a very high-level professional, and she sees the problems that exist in the field of education and are present in the field of students. In my opinion, as a representative of the opposition, he shows, highlights and initiates a discussion on how they need to be addressed, and they need to be dealt with quickly. Instead, you are a representative of a political force that takes responsibility for the field of education and is only able to explain that, you see, you may be responsible to the local authorities for solving the problems for pupils and educators. Yes, perhaps the Ministry of Welfare is responsible, which... students are responsible for social benefits. But where are your solutions specifically for students? It is not yet, it is not yet, it is just a debate. Where are your specific works? Only plans and discussions. That is not the case either. Consequently, we, as the opposition and Mrs Papules, refer professionally to the problem. We ask for your support and ask for you to be accountable to the students for your promises and for your restaurant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U296	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U297	Colleagues! A real emotional debate on this proposal. I would like to turn to some of the speakers. We, from the opposition, are doing our job and trying to do it after the best conscience and then after it, which is appropriate to every politician... be in line with those principles and with the way politicians have reached the parliament in general. If you're talking about Mr. Gobzem. Mr Gobzem, I think it is clear today, and he is doing so in a legal way. It is his position, and behind it there are not any voters, but people of Latvia. And I would call for respect to be given to the position of any politician, to the position of any Member. Yes, perhaps it is difficult to tolerate it, but it is still a position, and we also respect the position of any other politician, and that is why there is this debate. And this is a normal political process. But if we start to speak in such a very personal way and offend people, it's not the right style. I'd like to call... I really am turning to the Member's Neighbourhood right now. You were in opposition, I worked with you in the same Saeima at the time you were in opposition. I would like to say: try to remember what your working methods were, how you worked, how you talked to older people, to women. Well, there was something to think about. I think you should start with yourself. And the time you came to a coalition... how you've changed, really... There's something to think about. I therefore call for consideration to be given to political opinions and for debate on the substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U298	Thank you. I would support Mr Valaiņa's words to debate on the substance, including on this proposal. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U299	Hello, colleagues! You could start your speech with thanks for your thanks. Thank you to Mrs Muižniece, to Mr Znotiņš and to Mrs Čakša for having listened to and tried to listen to the substance of this proposal, as representatives of the coalition. On the other hand, however, this proposal seems to have been removed from the whole set of proposals, part of which has not already been supported at this sitting. And obviously the other proposals will not be supported either. But I want to talk about something else. In contrast to the vast majority of you, my colleague, I'm once the rector of a university... It has passed through this process, when because of a lack of funds, a large proportion of students were forced to either temporarily stop (A sound break.) ... this crisis situation, which was between 2008 and 2009. In the year 1996. There was no national solution at that time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U300	Mr. Wucaan! Mr. Wucaan! I'll stop you a little bit. It's pretty hard to hear what you're saying, and it might be that there's a computer in the room you're in there that doesn't have headphones attached to. Please cut it off! All computers should connect the headphones, and then... all computers in that room. And then, hopefully, we could hear you better.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U301	All right, colleagues! I'm going to go closer to the computer screen, it might be the fault.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U302	That's great! Very good.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U303	Yeah. So what I wanted to say was once already (2008-2009). I have gone through all this, as a rector of the university at the time. And then it was that a very large part... not a very large but large number of students were forced to leave or temporarily stop because of a lack of resources. At the time, such a national programme was not developed. This time the situation is significantly different. Even yesterday, when the European Commission has announced this aid programme. In my opinion, we need to think very seriously about how to support students, even more those who study on state budget resources, because they are actually doing what we call a government order. So they study in those study programmes where the state has said that we need such specialists, our economy needs and that the state guarantees that from the start of studies to the end of studies, the state is ready to pay such study places. It is therefore absolutely necessary to ensure that students can also do so. But I want to talk about another thing. We have summer ahead. Probably not all of you know or remember that regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are still in force. 740, adopted in 2004. These are provisions on scholarships. The rules follow that students receive a 10-month scholarship in bachelor’s and master’s programmes, while doctoral students receive a 11-month scholarship per year. This automatically means that in July, August, students will not receive these scholarships. They will remain in this situation as they are – they will remain practically without means of subsistence. If earlier summers were able to find a way to earn, then this summer it will be particularly difficult. I therefore call for this proposal to be dealt with separately from those other proposals that have been rejected and for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U304	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U305	I'm very brief. I believe that Mr Rancan is very incorrect in his speech. We are talking about politics today. We are not talking about what they do and what they do not do by ministerial officials. And this is very important, because the officials are fulfilling the political settings that will be decided by the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers. That is why it is very important to make the right political decision in this case. What is proposed in this proposal is a correct and forward-looking political decision, not only in a pandemic situation. I invite you to support it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U306	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U307	Hello, dear colleagues! It was a pleasure to listen to Janis Vucanas, who supports students. I also personally support both students and other poor groups and I am just about... for such an opportunity, if any, to support all these people. However, I have a question for Janis Vucans, who comes from the field of education, has been a rector of higher education and has been in power for many years... politician of the power party, including represented in the Saeima. Where are the works done, Mr. Wuzan, so that this scholarship is bigger for these students? That's one. And the other. You did not answer that question, where did you then use your transport compensation this April if commission meetings took place remotely? The answers to these questions have still not been heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U308	Colleagues, I really call: let us return to the substance of the question, on the specific proposal, 17. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U309	There is much and a lot to talk about how officials fulfil the tasks of political leadership. Then I have a question for Mrs Papule, which since 2000 to 2017, at least with various... has continuously held various high-level positions in the Ministry of Education and Science. In the same party, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis was the Minister of Education in 2013 and 2014, if I don't be mistaken... who has been the political leader. The question – where have you been? You are currently hypocritically talking about the proposals that you yourself could have put into practice when you were a minister for education in the ruling coalition, including in 2013. Mrs. Papule, who was a country, too... one of the highest officials in the Ministry of Education and Science, could... has talked a lot about scholarships and has done nothing. So I see here only hypocrisy and inability, and because of your hypocrites, I've been forced to learn, by the way, relatively recently and without scholarship... get higher education at private expense... Many others too, including the parliamentary secretary, Reinis Znotiņš, who, relatively recently, has also studied... We have now had to go to politics so that you, old crayfish, who have done nothing in 20 years, have nothing... that you would not do your works now, what you did when I walked under the table for 20 years, you did not, and we will do it. Yes, we will not do in the first year or in the second year. We have two more years ahead. You will not know this country when we end here. You'll be afraid to go down the street so you won't go... wouldn't be put in prison for some things and schemes... It is not these particular persons who I mentioned, but perhaps others who are involved in various matters. All things – your inactions, schemes – will come to light, we will take care of it, and we work on it. Also about scholarships – Reinis Znotiņš works with it and joins in public every day, he is not afraid to speak on these issues. So that you, Mrs Papule, whose work is to work as a Latvian in the counter-state power, would have chosen (not heard...)... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U310	Let's turn to work, please... the specific draft law (Sound breaks.) ... Our work is to work on this draft law today, and let us do it, please! The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U311	Yes, of course, I would like to ask for forgiveness to Mr Feldman, because I really could not see all the children who walked under the table when we were already working and ensuring that you had something to eat there under the table. That's the first. Second. I hope that, however, this will not end with the fact that the Ministry of Education and Science will have the purchase of witches and bring us all to the forest where you will give us a place. And the third. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Education and Science is currently headed by the JCPOA... representative of the party, Mrs Šuplinska, who could stand up boldly and honestly for students' right to study normally, also to eat in summer, July and August (with regard to the risks pointed out by Mr Wuzan). We will, of course, be happy to support your efforts to boast about your success, if they are, of course, at the end of your career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U312	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U313	Colleagues! Mr Feldman has been released from his desk and now promises to put everyone in jail. This is a truly wonderful summary of today’s day. But, in fact, I would like to say to the New Conservative that you will not achieve anything until you continue to live in the past. What we hear from you in almost every sitting of the Saeima is the unsolved pain of some past, some injuries in which you always lie down again and again and again. In this way you will not build a new country, and even more so you will not be able to build a new country because you are the hostages of Mr. Kaimiņš. As a fiftieth voice, Mr. Neighbours will always keep you on his carriages, and you will never be able to do anything, even though there are, of course, many questions with your education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U314	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U315	Colleagues! Listening to the debate on this proposal, I really expect the government to come with a different proposal - not that the grants are increased to EUR 200 in 2020 and 2021, but that they will be increased for an unlimited period - because at least now, everyone seems to be the largest beam carriers and solves everything now, and will solve what all previous governments have not managed to do. It seems to me that the positive message is that we are at last discussing. Thank you for your participation in the debate. The truth is born, and we may find some truth in the context of this proposal. But unfortunately, what I've been watching today is that all the demons sitting in each sit are also broken in disputes. Here I would also like to say to Mr Feldman that I really fear that there is a attitude that everyone should be put in prison instead of doing something good... not just to promise that in a few years' time we will not recognize this country... I am a little afraid of it because I know that you are a wise person and that a wise person can do big things if the goals are right. The aim, in my opinion, is not too good, well, and that is something that is of concern. I think we could stop being personally so aggressive against each other, agreeing to support students. If you cannot vote today at the Saeima sitting for some reason, then I hope that the government will resolve this by next week. If not, then let us remind you of the whole debate today.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U316	Thank you. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U317	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I want to respond to Feldman's reply that we will not recognise Latvia in two years' time. I don't know how Latvia, but already today we can't recognize Riga after the revolution that you've made by placing a temporary administration that can't bring even a wastebin to order. Now Riga is full of wastebins, glass does not carry, and paper does not carry, is already full of standing... because the companies you chose to have political affiliations – unfortunately, they do not have the resources to do so. And when you're calling, after half an hour, you're on the phone, then they say – your line will only be on 27 June in order your wastebin. How to Live? Then Riga will live full of wastebins in the month now, in summer, in hot weather. But about those students. I remember a few years ago there was a European programme where students or students, those who write the doctoral dissertation, had support of €800... 800 lats a month. Very good support was given, and very many of these young people wrote and defended the doctoral thesis. So here too, at least, there's a reason why a student needs to learn much more if he has such... at least some minimum scholarship, not they overnight, as Muižniece said... They're gonna work for the night. If you work for the night, Mrs. Muižniece, you're already... Lectures can only be done at sleep and not at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U318	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U319	(Sound rupture) ... Colleagues! I think it is very important, very important, to support such decisions that affect our young people, our future, so that we really have an educated society so that we do not have the debate that we have at the moment in the Saeima, where there are some Members who are able to find information, ask about various expenditures, while at the same time they are absolutely not interested in what way there is an investment of 250 million, where, how and why it goes. Some walk under the table, no breast milk on the lips still dried. Couldn't one year, can't two years, most likely not within four years. The only thing we can do, that is, as some good Members have said, we will not recognise this country, but not in a positive sense, but now, after all our actions, it seems that, in a very negative sense, we will see this country in the next parliamentary elections. If the Minister of Transport can afford to say that the current transit and cargo volume is the norm, then, dear people, we must close that cantor, because income for the country is most likely not expected in the future. At the same time, not to speak gratifications, but to work in such a way that in the future, following this emergency, which is not yet a crisis (the crisis will only be)... so that we, when we reach this crisis and exit from the crisis, are in much better conditions than our neighbours, which are our pure competitors, as well as our colleagues in the European Union. We must be economically prepared to develop during the post-crisis period, not here in the parliamentary tribunal, to speak glamorously, to compare incomparable things. And I don't even have any words in what way to say. I would therefore call for this proposal to be supported, however, so that, in the future, those young people who complete studies are really smart and able to also act in Parliament and make the right decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U320	The name of the Member Anita Muižniece for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U321	Hello, colleagues! I would like to reflect briefly on Mr Klementyev's remark just now. Indeed, I can be proud of the fact that all three studies have made me very successful, including when I raised my child, studied at night, and went to work during the day. Since these things certainly teach a lot, they utter the character of it, they are also useful skills in life, which may not always be possible, so to speak, could work in the circumstances when we enjoy such a carefree life during our studies. And yet I do believe, as I said, that scholarships should be increased. I trust the ministries and coalition that this is near... will be done as soon as possible. This will be done in a complex way, thinking about how to help a number of groups, in a reasonable way, too, with other partners. If not, we will probably, as some have said here, speak again, but for the time being, let us rely on this agreement, the information that we have expressed, and I think all the students are waiting for it, and let us finish this madness at the Saeima sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U322	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U323	Mr Ivan Klementyev (in view of the fact that we have to stop the Saeima's madness on this issue) – I will finish with some fact. You mentioned waste, waste situation in Riga. You probably know that Riga has been returned... The Rigans have been enslaved for seven years by a monopoly divided into four zones. And you voted, respectively, on 27 February at 1156, to make this happen. Therefore, Mr Clementyev and others who said yes, including I can find information, including in the past, including on how you voted.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U324	For scholarships! The proposal. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U325	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you also for your word. It's about to be another break. We've been through two proposals. It's not about how fast we're going, but about the same quality as we're debating... I understand that probably many Members who suddenly appear in this form of debate, very active debate... probably encouraged by the fact that there is no medicine watching, there is no video camera in the film. The only picture you see is yourself, then you can come out as far as you go. If there is such a debate, the debate, I call on the Saeima to perhaps make a separate parallel debate in the e-Parliament... a group of discussions where both personal insults can pass and the history of each other trembled. But it's clear here. Thank you to those who really debated the proposal in question, both for the opposition and for the position. Dana Reizniece-Ozola made a fairly clear summary of the last debate, and here, as it already seems, you can now call... Let's finish this, and we can see that 32 debaters... There will be a future proposal, probably someone will try to throw some stink back into the debate. Then I have only three words for these Members, who are trying to develop the culture of their debates in this way, even in the form of the e-Parliament: the Sun, the Thunder and the Daugava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U326	I closed the debate, no matter what it was. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U327	In the Commission this proposal, 17, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U328	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. – Proposal by Members Papule, Dombrovskis, Švekova, Agešina, Rubika, Lochmeles-Lunovo, Cileviča, Stepanenko, Vacana, Reiznieces-Ozola, Kabanova, Tutina, Goldberga, Kucina, Bergmanis, Dūklava and Liepāja! Please, let's vote! On – 31, against – 44, abstained – 14. The proposal is not supported. Please activate the procedure in the system. Mr Dombrovskis, you wanted to speak. Please activate... That's it, thank you. Name of the procedure for Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U329	Yes, the very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, That's a funny feeling. I was the only one who said that I would not talk about the substance of the proposal, rather than the procedure. And then all those who spoke after me certainly didn't talk about the proposal as such, but well. I want to say two things, colleagues. One. Considering all that has been said from some colleagues about it (mainly from the UK)... about what he had done. Please understand that, since you are now in that ruling coalition and power, everything is happening (A sound break.) ... and everything that doesn't happen is your responsibility. And so when you start looking for someone who is guilty outside of your ruling coalition, outside of yourself two thousand... What is it? in the third year, in 2013 or who you were there... Is that so? It won't lead to what it's not gonna do if it's good. I... Maybe you need to talk about everything you've got inside if, but now you've got to understand that you look like... Well, that kind of hurtful guy...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U330	Thank you. Thank you. The name of Member Julia...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U331	And...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U332	For the procedure is one minute. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko for the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U333	Yes, colleagues! I want to record... I also call on you to pay attention to what was in this debate today, which was... The chairman of the sitting could stop Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis when he said that he would talk about the procedure rather than the proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U334	There is no procedure for the second time; we cannot talk for the second time about procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U335	But the chair could not stop the neighbor... the neighbourhood of Members who openly expressed various, in my view not members of the Saeima... names, designations and language used which are incompatible with the Saeima sitting. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the chair of the sitting is too oblivious of what the head of the sitting should observe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U336	Thank you. The procedure is over. Dear colleagues, I call on all of you to respect each other. And that is the task and responsibility of all Members to take part in this debate responsibly, bearing in mind and understanding that we are in Parliament and are working on a specific draft law. ( Internouncing call.) Dear colleagues, If anyone is in this debate, there is always an opportunity to deal with these issues within the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application. ( Milestones.) It's time for a break. ( Internouncing call.) There are Members going... Registration of Members is ongoing. Thank you. Members have been registered. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U337	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. We are still working on the draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences due to the spread of Covid-19”. Member Mārtiņš Steins on behalf of the Commission on Budget and Financial Taxation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U338	Hello! Ladies! So MEPs Papule, Dombrovskis, Švecova, Agešins, Rubiks, Ločmele-Lunova, Cilevičs, Gobzems, Stepanenko, Vucans, Cabanovs, Liepaja, Tutins, Goldbergs, Kucins, Reizniece-Ozola, Bergmanis and Dūklavs submitted 18 proposals to change the framework for scholarships. And this proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U339	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U340	Yeah, thank you. It's good that you're in between. And yet I will take a slightly different educational approach so that everyone has a clear objective and a clear essence of this proposal. I would like to admit that this proposal has been submitted in an open letter from the Latvian Student Association. So for those who walk under the table, or for prison watchmen... regardless of intelligence and intelligence... I will read the grounds for the proposal that has been tabled, especially for prison guards... independent of intelligence. So the reason for this is: “We suggest that scholarships could be received by university students who study on both state budget resources and private ones, but do not receive either unemployment or unemployment benefit. Those with reduced incomes should give priority to helping those who are socially disadvantaged. We encourage (and this is what the Latvian Students' Association says in an open letter, which can be read by anyone who can read, and I hope that such skills are no matter whether they received or did not receive a scholarship when studying)... We encourage that funding is allocated to universities in proportion to the number of students and that further funding is allocated to students is supervised by the university scholarship commission. Amendments to the Law on Higher Education and the binding regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers... are necessary to implement the solution.’ And then, of course, students also mention the amount. In this case, it would not be like rejecting assistance for parents and children with disabilities, rejecting support for students who have lost the opportunity to work alongside training, rejecting the possibility... the possibility to receive student credits during Covid-19 that you did not stand up for scholarships, but promised a systemic approach. Hopefully soon while you're still in the Saeima, including. But in any case, this is aid for socially disadvantaged opportunities... students. And I am calling for a really debate on the subject right now and for a vote on students, and remember that all the proposals, regardless of who has signed the proposals, are submitted for students and based on the student's own conceptual view of how to help yourself. I invite everyone to remember their studies once again, remember that it is the 21st century that our forms of studies are different and different, and forget that someone may not have received a scholarship when studying, so do not grant a scholarship today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U341	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U342	Dear students! This proposal is about providing support for all students who have lost income during the crisis, who have been unemployed and who may be living at the expense of their parents. I know that part of you, dear students, were in the past big supporters of Member Artus Village. At least for the elections and so on. Member Artus Kaimiņš does not stand up for your interests. He says publicly that he lives out of his hand with EUR 4707 and one sandal. And here's the saying that he's fed doesn't know how the one who's not fed lives. This is a proposal that will not be supported by those who promised before the elections that they would teach all Latvia to speak English. And it's Development/About! I know that part of the students supported Development/About! They will also vote against you. I am voting against to help you in your studies in Latvia. A party that currently has the Minister of Education and Science and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr Znotiņš, from the UKP, will vote against you. These people don't help you. Member Znotiņš has not helped students, but helped his assistant – member Zālīte-Gross husband – to get into the project “Your Class”. For a relatively large amount of money. Remember this on Mondays – when you will find it very difficult – remember all this! Some of you dear students may have voted or supported the New Unity. The New Unity with Karini does not support you either. They spend 250 thousand on their PR campaigns, but not you. And then there's such an organization of KPV LV. It's not yet broken, it's about to get completely broken. In this organization, its leader is as I understand, Doctor... Doctor of Science with an education from Canada and so on. He's today... His name is Atis Zakaitistov. He said today that it is not necessary to support all those who breathe, obviously thinking that we can come to a situation where someone does not breathe, I am sorry. No, absolutely everyone needs to be supported. The crisis does not distinguish between good or bad, students or pensioners, entrepreneurs in large companies or entrepreneurs in small enterprises. Support everyone. All people in the country if the country cares for people. Our country does not care about people. They are not interested in the student, they are not interested in anyone, and we can only change that together. This cannot be changed by the opposition, because there are too few votes against objectively. It can only be changed if you students become more active. If you claim your rights. And the first way is to start with the dismissal of this House. When you collect 150... maybe 120,000 signatures, you will start forcing these people (who laugh here, vote against you) to think, worry. They're not worried right now. At the moment, they feel that for two and a half years, they will be able to do the same because you allow them to do so. You must stop allowing yourself to do what you can, and you can only do that for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U343	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U344	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the state budget is not the only support mechanism for supporting students. There are also private funds, from which students are funded, and these funds have the opportunity to donate gifts and donations to everyone. And if we look at this Member Aldis Gobzems has given 140,000 worth of land to someone, then I allow him to also donate such a sum to these private funds to support students at this difficult time. Let's not be twofold, let's act and... and then, please, don't give up! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U345	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U346	Thank you. I did, however, call for a debate on the substance and, to be honest, also after all. If Mr Bhutan calls for a donation, I want to see in some way that the first one will do so, and I do not want to shut down the donations of the Minister to whom she gives a certain amount every month. However, I would ask you to look again – there is an emergency. And if private funds do so and continue to do it, and I must thank those people this time for the charity that supports students in their normal situation too... But in this case, this is an emergency proposal for a solution and support for students. Mr Bhutan, I will be the first to say publicly that you have committed a crime, but I would not want it to be EUR 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U347	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U348	Yes, I would like to respond to Member Butane, not to talk about what I do or do not do, because unlike Member Butan... I have donated the full salary of my Member until the last deposit – full! – Unlike the Member Butan, who demands EUR 40 in addition to his three or how many thousands (as such)... you yourself know who) compensation. And so, Member Butan, instead of talking silly, perhaps talk about what the Ministry of Education and Science in your competence should do in the field of education. You can't do it, and you can't do it for a very simple reason – because you don't have ideas and competences. Your highest competence is a misplaced word from the Minister on the Pandora's charge, without understanding the meaning of this expression. But there is no information to the public about the school year that comes. Students’ parents, teachers and teachers are not aware of this. I think that you, Mr Bhutan, should be required to take responsibility for your party's membership and membership. And instead, before you call me to donate somewhere, give me twice as much money as I've done from the beginning, and first give up your EUR 40 bus compensation, working at the Ministry of Transport, where you get more than the Saeima, just because of the salary... you get a salary there... not for any other reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U349	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U350	If Mr. Butane invites to donate to students so that they could learn further, then maybe Mr. Butane should have thought at first about how to organise a really donation campaign for airBaltic. Because then at least Mr. Butane's donors could also finally tell you what goals and why this money should be donated by airBaltic to attract donors. Instead, Mr. Butāns has actually organized this country's donation to airBaltic without any explanation, but ironically, he disgusts them into the role of petitioners, saying that everyone must now donate to the students – our future in fact. Thank you, it's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U351	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U352	Yes, my dear colleagues, it would really be interesting to know that if the honourable Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport has such an opinion on how people's problems should be addressed, then is that exactly how those problems are dealt with for airBaltic? Was there also your call to look for funds in some private funds, to borrow funds in private markets, in financial markets, or to donate, as you say? We are still waiting for a response from you on the basis of exactly EUR 285 million for airBaltic. No one has presented this justification to the legislator, Mr Butane. And we will not easily leave this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U353	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Turn on the microphone for Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U354	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U355	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. – An offer from Members Papule, Dombrovska, Švekova, Agešina, Rubika, Ločmeles-Lunovo, Cileviča, Gobzema, Stepanenko, Vucana, Cabanova, Liepājas, Tutina, Goldberga, Kucina, Reizniece-Ozola, Bergmanis and Dūklav! Please, let's vote! 27 for, 41 against, 10 abstentions. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U356	19. is a proposal from Members Švekova, Pimenova, Papules, Domrovska, Stepanenko, Gobzem and Liepiņa. Provision is made for the establishment of a premium for work in sensitive conditions for teachers and employees of pre-school institutions. And the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U357	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U358	Yeah, thank you. In my opinion, teachers at pre-school institutions took a very difficult and very responsible job in very critical working conditions. When no one knew and everybody worried about the consequences of the coronavirus, about the potential threats and about possible treatments from Covid-19. These educators ensured that our children (which is, in fact, the main wealth and value of the state and the future of the state)... They provided them with the opportunity to learn, and they provided them with the opportunity to work in very difficult circumstances. And I think it is the category of pre-school teachers and employees that we should be grateful for and therefore pay (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U359	Just a minute! Wait! Wait a second! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Švecova: “Now too?” ) Now we can, continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U360	I'll try it then faster. The main objective and target audience are teachers and employees of preprimary education institutions who worked in emergency situations by providing on-call groups that ensured that children began to study now... those groups that are preschools... who have to start learning at educational institutions this year. And they're the category that doesn't get bonuses for acting in high-risk conditions – psychological stress and emotional stress, as well as health risks. It must be understood that citizens who work, for example, for emergency workers, police officers, are in contact with Covid-19, possibly infected persons. They needed to ensure that their children visited pre-school institutions, and teachers of pre-school institutions – they were also those who took responsibility and care of our children. In my opinion, it would be only logical and reasonable for the state to assume responsibility, take care of these educators and staff, and also provide them with adequate remuneration. Yes, I understood that I asked the Ministry of Education and Science during the meeting of the Commission – if there is also an opportunity to take care of pre-school teachers from the Ministry of Education and Science. The answer was – no, it is the sole responsibility of the municipality. But we know that the municipality has a number of other functions and tasks, and additional expenses related to Covid-19 infection. And I think it would be only solidarity and responsibility that the state should take responsibility and take care of teachers in kindergartens, providing them with adequate remuneration in conditions of increased health risk and psychological stress. Please support this proposal by providing public funding for pre-school teachers and staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U361	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U362	Yes, hello, colleagues, again. I always try to motivate my votes on education issues, and here again, on the one hand, I would like to say with such a heart, of course, we are paying compensation. On the other hand, while always working here in Parliament, it must be thought that any decision we make is really thought out and indeed beneficial not only for one particular group of society, but for society as a whole. And then, by submitting such a proposal, whether the applicants have thought about how the sellers will feel in the stores, which I think have also worked even more... increased risk and risk conditions. Taxi and public transport managers, postal workers and also employees of our Saeima, colleagues. Well, if we provide it, think about everyone, calculate how much it will cost, and try to find such an equal approach. So I think this is the case when, although pre-school educators have actually done and worked a lot of work (as well as all other educators) under these conditions, I think it is simply a matter of distinguishing one group – it would not be right, so I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U363	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U364	Thank you. Thank you, I only draw attention to the fact that it is also important to read the law in which the proposals are tabled, probably when you submit your proposals. And if we read the title of the law, we see that it is an exceptional law, so certain proposals are, on the one hand, a short-term solution for a particular situation. To a certain extent, the work of preprimary education institutions was determined by the Ministry of Education and Science. The Minister said that kindergartens have to work, and this is a solution for parents who had no opportunity to work remotely but had to work, so to speak, in the presence of on-call groups, and it was a solution adopted by the government on the basis of proposals from the Minister of Education and Science. This means that if a State makes such proposals, the State is also responsible for the consequences. I will not speak for the other professions because there have been various support measures or not. In this case, this is a decision taken by the State and the rhythm of work for educators, the type of work was determined by the government, based in this case on the proposal of the ISM and the Minister. That is why it is for the government to take on additional responsibilities and pay for their work, both in an emergency and in a similar way to that of medical practitioners, in a special emergency. And in this case, educators in pre-school on-call groups would be likened not to the examples mentioned by their colleagues, but to medical professionals, who also did their professional work precisely because it is the basis of the professions, let's say. In this case, sorting, with which very often the rejection of the proposal is so exciting, is not a comparison on the ground, because once again I say that these conditions were set up by the government and were fulfilled by the educators. In this case, it would be a temporary or situational support, because you do not in any way support the teachers right now, and it is quite ridiculous if the representative of the industry says – no, let's not! This is specific, especially if funding is currently available and teachers will not have leave. Pedagogies in pre-school institutions will probably continue to work in summer if people... The parents will not have a vacation, they will have already taken it away, or otherwise. This means that traditional work... Even after the removal of the emergency situation or the introduction of changes and reliefs, the emergency situation will affect the operation of kindergartens, which will be different from the traditional approach in previous years when there is no emergency situation. However, I invite you to appreciate the work of educators, to show them an appreciation of the prestigious profession and also respect for the people who really worked. I will not mention an example of cities, a example of Valmiera, and what this meant for both the city, parents and educational institutions, I will not mention these examples, because at the moment we are talking about additional support for teachers at pre-school institutions – those who worked in exceptional circumstances... similar to what the doctors did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U365	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U366	When I and my colleagues, with... together, under the leadership of Mrs Švecova, we asked the government what measures were taken to reduce the risk to pre-school staff and in some way to support them at this difficult time, so there were many different phrases in this response - so there was a working group, there was an online negotiation, there was a questionnaire. Well, these are the measures that very much like... principle, what... in principle than non-doing – that is what we can call it. And, in general, it's... the answer was that it wasn't... There wasn't even so many of those kids in those groups and... and from 28. ... from 28 April, which is relatively recent a month ago, it is therefore possible for these kindergarten teachers to be subject to an analysis of the employer’s assignment. For these... The trade union fought for these tests, if I did not lie from March. And then we can see how long the government needed, how many working groups and how many surveys and how much online negotiations were needed to reach this decision at last. And the most sensitive in that answer was that so the government... Nobody had come to the government with a proposal to provide this salary to pre-school teachers. But at the moment we are talking about the Members' proposal, so the Members' proposal is clear. And if no municipality had come with such a proposal, you have a proposal from Members here. Here it is, and please support me. And if we also talk about what Mrs Muižniece said, then Mrs Muižniece – yes, she was Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, and I understand that she is still in the whole heart, I hope there is one. And that's why I don't understand why to contrast preschool educators to the employees of private companies. For example, you named the sellers. Yes, sellers have to take care of, sellers have to take care of the employer. And that is something we have repeatedly pointed out in many... many other proposals. But it is precisely those employees who cannot be taken care of by a private institution who can be taken care of by the state and the municipality. That is why we are calling for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U367	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U368	Kindergarten tutors! This proposal is for you, for your support. The new Unity Coalition with Karina, who says that they have a lot of money, will not support you and will not support the UKP, which has the Ministry of Education and Science. Development/About! you will not support, KPV LV will not support you. And what you can do... because I believe that kindergarten teachers should, by their very nature, have the same teachers as school or university teachers and should be comparable to teachers with the same effective possibility of receiving salaries, allowances, assistance and so on, because pre-school education, education in kindergartens for young children is the most important. What a child is given from a child's foot and a child as a celebration of this thing, which you give him, absorbs, learns languages and learns other things – it's for his whole life. And that is why kindergarten teachers need to be particularly supported. You're not in favour. And you have only two options – to look at it, because, as I said, the opposition does not have enough votes, and I can speak loudly, but it is too little. We need your help to help you, including kindergarten teachers, to help us. And you also have to arrange, start with the first thing – stop suffering, stop suffering, then continue with the next thing. You have to sign for 13. Dismissal of the Saeima, then I have to tell my colleagues to do it... relatives, friends, acquaintances. Time is running out. You don't need a lot of signatures, another 100,000, about 110,000. But together we can do this. We can collect these signatures, release 13. The Saeima, which does not care about the Latvian people. And then at least we will have some hope that the situation may change. Because at the time of the next elections, it is absolutely clear that in these future elections, those who voted against the people today will not enter and there will be others. I will, among other things, be in the next parliament, unlike many of the JCIP's bidders who will not be. We'll take care of you as far as possible. I don't want to promise you everything they can as they promise, because they promise populistly. They promise and then fail. But the fact that you will be equal to primary, secondary school teachers in the future will be. And today, following this vote on the 19th proposal in the draft law under consideration, which provides for support for you to work while you have the greatest risk that you will not receive, I call on you not to have a golden fish memory and remember it. I invite you – when you watch various Viņķelis PR videos that will be filmed there now, or when you watch Kariņš' luck tells the video that will be filmed and shown how successful and similar we are all, I invite you to turn on the memory and remember that these people, who do not represent most of the people, are a little over 50 of them, vote against you. They only vote for their pockets, their interests. You're not interested in them. They need you once in four years. You're okay with them. It's an empty place. They consider you to be nothing, because they think you will never wake up. But it is high time to do so. Also for you, kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U369	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U370	Dear colleagues, This proposal is acceptable for at least two reasons. First. This is only meant at a time of crisis, so it is really a challenge for the crisis situation. I'm sorry... Because, in principle, the state's participation in the maintenance of pre-school institutions is extremely important in order to maintain the same level of participation.... internal, if you want, policy in this area. Secondly. This issue would also be important for a solution as State aid to this sector because... which helps municipalities to create a level playing field and a level playing field. And thirdly. It really is very important for people... In difficult times, it helps families to survive and live. This proposal does not require enormous costs, similar costs for airline support, so it should really be supported in such a way that... Well, there would be justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U371	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U372	In the Commission, this proposal, 19, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U373	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. – An offer from Members Švekova, Pimenova, Papules, Domrovska, Stepanenko, Gobzema and Liepiņa! Please, let's vote! 27 for, 53 against, 3 abstentions. The proposal is not supported. Please turn on the microphone for Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U374	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – Proposal by Members Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Dauges, Vucanas Reizniece-Ozolas, Dūklavs, Krauzes, Smita, Gobzems and Liepāja. It is planned to renew the fares in the public transport route network of Riga city and to set a certain period during which the facilities will operate. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U375	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U376	Colleagues! I hope you're not tired yet. However, this is an important proposal. I call on you to support this. So it's not the first time, we're making this proposal for the third time. And, in essence, it provides that at the moment, when the Saeima has released a legitimately elected municipal council and appointed executives, and in this sense, when the Saeima has also abolished extraordinary elections due to the circumstances of the crisis, the Saeima also assumes responsibility for what is going on there. At the moment, I am calling for the vote in favour of this proposal to restore the incentives for older people to drive charges in public transport. I think all of you know how important this is for seniors in Riga. The interim administration annulled the decision taken politically. I also propose that this decision be withdrawn politically, that it be made compulsory to return... In this case, this... in support of the proposal, I think there would be no epidemiological risk here either, because this proposal provides that in the morning and evening hours when people go to and from work, these discounts would not be applicable. I think after the state of emergency, they're... This issue should also be reviewed, but as long as there are restrictions, face masks should also be used, there are other distance restrictions at present. If we did not once prohibit older people from using public transport, then for our part, it would be right for us to compensate them for these expenses and to provide tax incentives for public transport in particular for older people in Riga. Riga is different from... If we look, only nine cities from 119 municipalities have such a specific function. No changes have been made in eight cities, even though the density of the cities... population density is very similar. The population is, of course, larger in Riga, but there is no difference in nature, whether it is in Daugavpils, Liepaja, Jelgava or Riga. In none of the cities that I have named, the fares are abolished, as is the case in Riga. There are limited periods of movement, which are very much followed, but they are not completely abolished. Riga is the only exception. I believe that this is completely wrong. I invite colleagues to support this proposal and remember that what is happening in Riga is now the responsibility of the Saeima, even more – one particular political party for Development/About! Completely for everything that is currently happening in Riga. Because these are here... Executive Director... Of course I will not comment further, but politically responsible for Development/For! I call on the Saeima to make it politically responsible Development/For! with this proposal to return facilities in Riga. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U377	Name... the name of Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U378	Dear colleagues, In this heat of the debate, we have missed a message today that the Riga Administration plans to consider tomorrow the decision to return facilities to pensioners and plans to introduce these facilities in time between... Thus, public transport is free of charge on a day from 10 a.m. to 15.00 p.m. So, at the moment, this proposal is no longer relevant. We look forward to tomorrow and see what the decision of the temporary administration of Riga will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U379	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U380	Thank you, thank you. I believe, however, that this decision should be taken by the Saeima on the basis of one substantive argument. This proposal is simply a human-human proposal to support seniors. We know that the amount of senior pensions (and the figures show it) is not necessarily enough to finance additional expenditure on public transport transport, especially at a time when restrictions are gradually being lifted and more... Many seniors go to doctors, to midwives, and perhaps also to some family members who are allowed to meet. At this point, the Saeima could show its human attitude towards seniors, or rather seniors. This is a strange argument, and the arguments for the representatives of prison guards, regardless of their intelligence, are becoming increasingly strange. If you look at how the state plant is now being built. I understand it was promised to rebuild before I knew it. I hope that this will not happen, because then there will be only prison system in Latvia. I don't think people's gonna make it, they're just gonna leave. But in this case, the decision of the Riga administration is already... If you could still discuss the role of the Cabinet of Ministers in the situation of Covid-19, then the decision of the Riga administration would be made as the main thing that the Saeima would patiently expect and even look at additives would seem to be out of place. At least the Members who have been in the decision for some time. And to a certain extent, you could understand how the state's decision-making in Latvia... At least for now and today... has been built. I call, however, on the coalition to look at it regardless of reservations... look at whether it is important for you, in particular, to know what is expected at the end of August, to make this truly human decision at the Saeima level as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U381	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U382	This question was asked several times to the temporary administration. Many times the reservation was that this... these incentives – they are regulated not by administration, but by virological and inectologists. But a certain discount... certain discounts have already been granted in another category. If you look at the public... to public transport in Riga and if especially... If you ever try to drive it, you will see that pensioners are forced to go, because not every house has its own shop, not every house has its own pharmacy, well, it's like... such a daily need. And in this case, the Saeima has full responsibility for the work and actions of the administration appointed by the Saeima. So this entry is not just an exhibition... Showing respect for seniors living in Riga who are suffering from their little macs from the fact that they can be granted reliefs may not be granted... So, I think it's a shame. I would call for this proposal to be supported and for us to show that we are people, not prisoners or prison guards. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U383	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U384	Colleagues! I heard very well what Mr. Butane said. Indeed, quite a few, if there is a proposal, from tens to four, and we have already submitted it for the third time. Then it sounds like we are heard and planned to make a decision – from tens to three. Well, it would be interesting to listen to what is... What's the reason for this hour here... No dosage adjustment is Why was it simply impossible to support such an opposition proposal at one of the times proposed? There is no doubt about this; the question is more about whether we will really make such a decision tomorrow. In any case, I will submit this proposal every time this law is opened, if no such decision is taken tomorrow, because I think it was a mistake to remove the discounts at all. It was really possible to determine at once that there was a fixed time when you could use it, as you did, for example, at the same Daugavpils. A very good solution! And other cities monitoring... If we look at who's on those compressed buses in the morning. Well, it's not like there's seniors walking in in the morning and using them. So I think it's a mistake. It will be very good if it is corrected tomorrow, but I hope that this debate and the political commitment to remedy this matter... When we debated for the first time, it was practically audible from all the political forces. I hope that this will also result in concrete actions. Thank you, but I am calling for this proposal to be supported today.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U385	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U386	Sir, I would have been silent if Mr. Butane hadn't spoken. (Laughter) In a simple heat of the debate, he probably forgot that on 15 April at the meeting of the Commission of State Administration and Municipality, the issue of the activities of the temporary administration of Riga was discussed for the first time. And already on 15 April, for the first time, it was pointed out that the Rigans were outrageous and complaining about the abolition of all discounts due to the crisis. On 13 May, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government re-examined the issue of the legality of the orders of the temporary administration of Riga and about what was achieved and accomplished during the period when three appointed persons of the state took place in place of the legally elected municipality, for whom responsibility rests, of course, on us, to the Saeima. On 13 May, the question was repeatedly asked when the discounts in public transport would be renewed. Immediately after this meeting, by the way, the opportunity to drive with discounts for Group III disabled people and parents of large families was restored. The simple binding provisions in this proposal apply to a number of population groups. For example, when the temporary administration announced publicly that it would be renewed for group III disabled people, no one had yet read the same binding rules in this regard and could not notice that all group III invalids were renewed except for group 75 plus, so parents... disabled people over 75 years of age. Therefore, I fully agree with Mr Valaiņa: until this decision is taken, until the texts of these regulations are published, there can be nothing to believe and it is necessary to check which groups of citizens, which groups of Riga will be covered by this. Of course, this will not reduce the indignation of Rigars, as the highest number of complaints is currently about the cancellation of the hourly ticket. This greatly reduces people's income, and it also applies to doctors, namely those working in public hospitals, because, unfortunately, the temporary administration, despite the fact that we also talked to them about it, would be very good to make these discounts in public transport, at least for the duration of the crisis, also applicable to doctors working in public hospitals... This failed to be technical. Therefore, everything can happen, something technical, formal, I do not know, extraordinary, can happen again, so I trust that everything will happen tomorrow and that the interim administration will adopt Valaiņa's amendment, we cannot, and therefore I call for this proposal to be voted in favour today, so that all this can be implemented and for the discounts to be renewed to the Rigas as soon as possible. Thank you. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U387	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U388	Colleagues, I am not listening to this debate at the first sitting of the Saeima when we talk about the Covid-19 law, and thank Mr Valaiņš for his insistence and struggle. I am trying to understand the coalition colleagues: do the pensioners really bother you so horrendously, or do you declare that you want to protect them? Because now it looks like they're more disturbing you, you just don't want to see them just sitting in their home and not going out and, don't give God, still walking on a trolleybus than you think they need perhaps medical help, they have to go to a doctor, they've been long ago... they haven't been to their doctor's reception, they have to buy medicine, they have to... Perhaps they may also visit their loved ones. But that's the impression... All the time, this debate is like this... the impression that those pensioners are some kind of totally disliked group that shouldn't even appear... ( Not to be heard.) , not the group you care about. If you really care for these people, then you'd first think about how they could get medical help, how they could get food, and how they could move safely in public transport. In particular, given that you have stated that public transport now needs to move with masks. By returning to the same debate we already had – there is no logic in your decision. You are introducing masks and continue to ban pensioners from appearing in public transport. Yes, of course, they can show up, but they have to pay for it. Of course, they do not receive compensation for the fact that they go to the doctor, they do not receive compensation and representation fees that some of you receive. They don't have personal drivers, but you're bothering them. You're making all the elected officials... All of us here are elected officials. You believe that the elected officials are those who have to wait until the appointed officials of the Saeima... in the administration of the City Council will finally decide that – well, let's let those unfortunate pensioners go for a few hours. We are elected officials. Our right is to point out to the Council. You have released that thought very recently, you can do everything in your mind, but now you are just waiting – let's wait another week, another week, which its administration will decide. It's not funny? What are you doing here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U389	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U390	Dear pensioners! This specific proposal is therefore about your free ride in public transport in Riga, which means that the candidates for the mayor of Riga should take part in this debate. Two of us in this parliament have – one is Mārtiņš Staķis from “Development/About!” , the other and Juris Jurash. None of them take part in the debate. You are certain before the elections... or you have already seen how Mr. Staķis is advertised there – someone is responsible, serious and beautiful, and otherwise inestimable wonderful person. Juris Jurash will be planted in front of you as the best of the millions of tree planters in Riga and the like. But now consider, dear pensioners! For you, before the elections, one party, that is called the UKP, promised a minimum pension, which will have already been introduced, EUR 200, if I am not mistaken, that was a promise. Now you can go to your wallet, open your wallet and see if each one of you has at least 200 euros and if you have made a higher or lower income from this crisis, look at your electricity bill with all OICs, food prices, medical prices, public charges and think about whether Karins, which you like for some because it shows how good he is on the TV, whether Kariņš has fulfilled his government declaration and reduced the price of electricity, i.e. lifted OIC... It is written in a government declaration. Look at your electricity bill and compare it with “Development/About!” With Stakis, mayor Stakis, has voted in favour of having as many advantages as possible, including in the public transport of Riga. Think about it, the dear Riga pensioners, or Juris Jušaks, the candidate for Riga Mayor, even once in real life is about you, the Riga pensioners, have joined!Is that so? Isn't it that the only thing he's entered into is the Liepaja prison, about the construction... construction of prison? I want the dear pensioners to look more at you than... not only “Panoram” or “TV3 News” or read a portal. I want you to think with me, too. As a large part of society – you are in Latvia in hundreds of thousands – you are, very interesting, you are the part that can change Latvia. You are the most experienced, actually also the smartest. And you can also sign for 13. Latvia.lv/ pv. If you can't do it yourself, ask your children. They will explain to you how to do so. But if students don't come to help you, dear romites (I know that there are strong romets in Latvia), you can change Latvia, which may be atypical, but it is. Latvian omies have power! Remember this after this vote, when the coalition will promise you a discount and will give you once again less than it has promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U391	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U392	One of the arguments used by the temporary administration of Riga, why discounts on driving in public transport are not renewed, was mentioned the recommendations of epidemiologists. So the SPPC. I would simply like to point out that I have doubts as to whether the staff of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre have full information on what is happening in the country. I was in Lithuania on Saturday, using the opportunity, following the announcement that a common space is being restored, that you can visit a neighbouring country. The situation was as follows: I was driving through... From Jelgava through the girl. The girl was absolutely empty. No border guard was there, so there was absolutely free from Latvia... When we arrived in Lithuania there was a item of about 20 people, all protective masks, protective boxes, temperatures were measured, all documents were checked. I was in Lithuania one day, I returned, and the situation is changing diametrically. Again – from Lithuania there is a position, but the temperature is no longer measured, only documents are checked. When entering Latvia – emptyness again. What does that mean? Lithuania still takes care that no person enters their territory who could have minimal Covid-19 symptoms, i.e. temperature. Latvia no longer cares about this. But in turn (A sound defect.) ... We've got an elevated... ( Not to be heard.) So that the requirements are checked!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U393	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U394	Dear colleagues, Well, first of all, however, thank your fellow Members, first of all Mr Valaiņa, for having tabled such a proposal. Filed very forceful. We see today that there is a reaction. However, I cannot say that I fully agree with the approach that is included in this proposal, namely between 10 and four, or more, between 10 and three, which is the decision of the interim administration. We, first of all, our colleagues from Development/About! , because everything that happens in Riga today is your responsibility... I invite you to think about the following: Yes, and that is your responsibility, because what works there in Riga, administrators who seem to work full-time in their respective ministries... and in Riga, well, that... I think no one... ( Not to be heard.) with this, it is clear that these people are fulfilling what they have been told from some of your colleagues from your party. Then, colleagues, think about the following, please. So, a pensioner or a pensioner who has long been waiting to see a doctor... Since the Ministry of Health is also under your supervision, I think you know what the average waiting time for a doctor or a hospital treatment is. So also a pensioner, for example, receives a call from a hospital or from a doctor who says that you are now in a free place. Your doctor may accept you, let's take it, at nine in the morning, at four in the morning, or at three in the morning. Following the decisions made by your administration, it happens that this pensioner to be admitted to a doctor she is likely to... Well, tell me how much you need to wait for? I think we're talking about months, right, colleagues? That she had been waiting for months. She can only pay for a ticket in public transport. All right, the Ministry of Welfare is not under your supervision, but you, colleagues, can ask Mrs Petravičs or look at, either, at least statistics on how many pensioners get. Is this euro for that pensioner she will pay for the ticket... Well, at which perhaps less than 200 euros of pensions, that is quite a lot, colleagues. That will not be just one case, colleagues. There will be others. I therefore call on you really to try to get into the shoes of these people before making any decisions. Imagine that you have a pension of some EUR 180 for all communal payments, that you have health problems, that you have been waiting for months to go to the doctor and that you can't even leave for free until then. I think this is a generally good approach, colleagues. Get in the shoes of this man and think about what they have! That is why I am calling at least for this proposal to be supported, but I am also calling, colleagues, for it to go further. These time limits are not humane to these people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U395	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U396	I remember my childhood, and my ome... ( The sound is broken.) Very little. There was a thing in my childhood that I met... my family met strangers old. It was always very interesting – those old people always had... They had always saved, they always had enough. It was always... It wasn't like Neighbours – with a salary of 4700 euros have to live in the mouth of his hand. But those old people, they're always some kind of... It was very interesting to me. In today's circumstances, I actually hear less and less such stories about old people who can save, because everything around us is built expensive, deliberately built to be expensive – medicines, food, utilities, electricity price and so on. And then the small amount that has already been paid for, which we have paid for as young people – for driving in public transport... We're fighting for the tombs. For what has already been physically paid, which the taxpayer has paid, the pensioner has also paid tax from his pension. Omes, you have to think about it. You too, ome, have to open your eyes! I really very much invite you to stop believing in what is shown in “Panorama” by “TV3 News” and to look at it as it is in fact. Those who speak sweet to you... with a sweet tongue, actually treat your interests. Think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U397	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U398	The 20th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U399	Please call, let's vote in favour of 20. – Proposal by Members Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Dauges, Vucanas, Reizniece-Ozolas, Dūklavs, Krauzes, Smita, Gobzems and Liepāja! Please, let's vote! On – 32, against – 53, abstained – 4. The proposal is not supported. Please turn on the microphone for Martin Stein!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U400	25. – Proposal by Members Papules, Dombrovskis, Svekovs, Agešina, Zariņa, Kabanova, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Wuzana, Rubika, Krišanas and Bergmanis. Provides “a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to anticipate in the draft law on the state budget 2021 an additional 3000 state-funded study places in sectors that will help Latvia’s economic recovery”. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U401	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U402	Thank you. I will risk using today, for the second time, a teaching approach that is not in line with the status of Members, in my view. I repeat, however, that this proposal is also a student... one of the student proposals. Students see the possibility of increasing budget seats also over a certain period of time, precisely to support those sectors that are most needed for national development and which are probably the most marked as being supported by the Covid-19 crisis. In this case, I would like to say that students are talking about 3000 state-funded study places in sectors where specialists are particularly needed. They both mention ICT and STEM and also mention healthcare. For my part, I can add that, to a certain extent, the ICT sector, which needs to be supported (and the situation of the Covid-19 and the new trends in education are, of course, reinforced), the ICT sector should be supported, but I would remind you that it has been supported by specific decisions already at the time of drawing up the budget and that ICT has gained additional opportunities. At this point, too, during the discussions in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), the representative of the Ministry of Education and Science said that, yes, we will do so, but we will support the ICT sector. There were some risks that this support could only be for a certain university or a certain... a specified direction. I think that this would be wrong, even if suddenly the unexpected and the "inmates of prison" came to the conclusion that ICT areas should also be developed in prisons and supported by this proposal... It would not be right to do this again by sorting it out that it is either only one sector or only one area. Students' desire to study in different sectors, albeit of priority, is very important from the point of view of national development. It would be unique if Latvia chose, as it was meant at the time in the context of the People's Party premiere, only one direction would develop it, starting with the entire education system, including the highest one. Such narrow, sorting trends would not be right even on the part of the ranks of “in prison supervision”, even if suddenly you intend to support something later that will come to the Saeima in the context of other proposals. So, in this case, I call at this moment to support the development of Latvia. I invite you to take a look – it is possible that you can also submit any other proposal in addition from the Prime Minister's office or from the Prime Minister's management, because it really coincides with the national development programme that students should support, that they should support certain specific sectors and extend these opportunities to study at the State's expense or in state paid study places. I call for my support and I very much hope that such a pedagogic approach, by reading concrete proposals in a very slow and simplified language, will not become a fundamental form of debate that says: yes, on the other hand, Members of the coalition seem to have understood, so there is no debate. I also call for the support of student proposals. And the Saeima, even though today, in the words of the whole day, sings and says thank you for supporting students, none of the votes has shown that supporting students really and really... and now that students need it. The two-week discussions have not led to a result. Let us wait for how long you, coalition, – I understand that there are problems – it is necessary to come to a decision that Latvia's future is also students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U403	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U404	Dear students! I think those who were watching understood everything today. The coalition that talks about your interests does not support you. I think you have also understood my numerous calls for the dismissal of this House. But there's another little detail. In today's climate, the country has sufficient resources to open up budget space in medicine, where there is a lack of budget space, in engineering, where there is a lack of budget space, but they do not. You make campaigns, you notice, by the way, in social networks you make campaigns that you want to study, and that is understandable. I used to be a student, too. I began my studies when I arrived from the countryside, and I lived in the hostels. I too, like you part, have food for five days a week only from fried potatoes in all possible ways. But unlike today, the study fee was 300, not thousands, but 300. It wasn't easy either, but it was easier than today for you. When there is a crisis, it is very important to help those who can develop the economy, but also to help those who are not developing the economy today, but who will be loyal to Latvia in the future, who will want to have Latvia as their home and who will want to fight for our country. This system, which was to be done by the coalition today, was a question, in fact an elemental question. This was a great opportunity to create a wave of patriotism that has never been, helping everyone in a row – students, pensioners, entrepreneurs, mothers with children, and so on. In fact, the National Association should have spoken about these things, because it would have contributed to patriotism. But they don't do it, they don't care. They only needed a few posts, and it's all... and probably other schemes, and procurement, and so on. I want students so you're not stupid. Let you see that you understand that you lie on television or on party offices... With beautiful posters and Mr. Stakis, who is a guardian of the earth, and all those liberal units of Unity, and he doesn't know anything yet... I know that may be interesting and so, but think about your future. I wouldn't want you to leave Latvia. I would like you to stay here, so that you are the ones who build a rich, prosperous country that people are going to and not leaving. And you have to come to help. For our part, we will do everything we can – let's talk, let's support – but we have too few votes. They have over 50 percent of the votes, because this is the political cartel. They've made this system in 30 years, they're swapping chairs. You can't vote for Viņķelis, but she'll always be. She'll be there for the rest of her life. You can remove him from the list even outside... not only to the last place, but she will still come and lead back. It's with everyone else, too. Therefore, you need to help change it, because otherwise you will never support it – the more you let it go, the more you will be the same as you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U405	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U406	Colleagues! In my opinion, this proposal is the best one to talk about if we are thinking about investing in the future. What can be better than creating new budget seats in those sectors that will help Latvia flourish? I think nothing. I think that, contrary, of course, to the once again gift of airBaltic and also to other sectors, we see that... we hear conversations that airBaltic is likely to soon disappear from our economy, which is a very wrong step – what you did. But instead of deciding to finance budget places... additional budget places, then perhaps we would have some hope that, as Mr. Feldman says, we will wake up in another Latvia, much better in Latvia, not as Mr. Feldman imagined – with prisons and so on. I would really like to hear comments from those members of the coalition who discussed the situation of students, social scholarships and budget places in two committee meetings in October last year – at the meeting of the Education, Culture and Science Commission and the Social and Labour Commission. The Monsieur said that this... Of course, we are working on it and it is a priority for the Ministry of Education and Science, but there is a lack of money. Now we are in a situation where there is a lot of money – more than you can imagine. The money is shared between irons, concrete, projects, PR... for everything else, but not for growth. For true growth, for his budget places... Students who, when they learn... By studying at universities, you will be able to carry the name of Latvia further. Well, look at that – you are all glad about the e-Saime, how little children are happy, full of tweeters, how cool now possibilities to press and sit and vote in the garden. And what provided it to you? A student yesterday. You can also proceed with such products... Others too... you can supply other national parliaments with these products. I therefore call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U407	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U408	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U409	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. – Proposal by Members Papules, Dombrovskis, Svekovs, Agešina, Zariņa, Kabanova, Gobzema, Reiznieces–Ozolas, Vuzana, Rubika, Krišanas and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! 31 for, 50 against, 7 abstentions. The proposal is not supported. Please turn on the microphone for Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U410	22. – Proposal from Members Švelova, Papules, Rubika, Goldbergas and Kucina. It is envisaged to complement the transitional provisions by providing that the reimbursement of expenses to teachers and educational parents should apply from 12 March 2020. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U411	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U412	Thank you. I will just make it clear briefly that this proposal relates to proposals that were previously rejected by the Commission and rejected by a majority of Members in the Saeima and simply set a deadline... provide additional financial support for distance training. In any case, please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U413	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U414	In the Commission this proposal, 22, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U415	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. – An offer from Members Švelova, Papules, Rubika, Goldbergas and Kucina! Please, let's vote! On – 31, against – 57, abstained – 1. The proposal is not supported. Please turn on the microphone for Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U416	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. I call on the draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” to be supported at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U417	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” (No. 694/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! Clearly (Interior: ‘ What can I help? ’) (Laughter) ... For – 78, against – no, abstain – 9. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Members are currently registered. Thank you. Registration successfully completed. Interruption until 7.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U418	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. Please, turn on the Technical Department, view... Do you want to log for new ones? Honourable Members! I call for seats to be held in the Saeima Chambers. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda – draft decision “On Cabinet Order of 21 May 2020 No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 103 Promulgating an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U419	Good evening, dear colleagues! In its meeting of 27 May 2020, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined amendments to the Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 promulgating an emergency. The amendments to the Ordinance mainly contain exemptions from the restrictions set out above and clarification of competences. I'll name a few. First. It is added that the decision on training in the provision of first aid is taken by the Minister for Health. On the other hand, the decision on the implementation of seafarers’ training programmes is taken by the Minister of Transport. Second. With effect from 1 June this year, subject to the requirements of social distance, state tests and accession tests shall be allowed for grades 9, secondary schools and vocational schools. For universities, however, they are allowed if it is not possible to provide them remotely. In addition, child camps are authorised from 1 June of this year if they do not overlap with the examination in schools. Also, from June 1, the athletes will be able to attend training sessions, if they are members of the Latvian adult sample, the Latvian Olympic Unit or the Latvian Paralympic Unit, which perform the duties of athletes arising from a written contract. On the other hand, the fight for sports will not be covered by the exception. The collective action of the organized acter arts is also permitted, respecting the order and social distance established by the Minister of Culture. It is allowed for Latvian nationals to leave Latvia once via border crossing points so that they can return to their home countries. The Foreign Minister has an additional competence to decide on the transfer of diplomats without keeping separate bonuses. Having heard the reports of the institutions, the Commission considered the relevant amendments to the Emergency Order to be justified, appropriate and necessary. On behalf of the Commission, I am calling for support for the proposed draft decision of the Saeima. Thank you, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U420	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U421	Dear colleagues, In the past, when we were looking at the amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers order, I said that I have very much concerns about the fact that children's entertainment facilities are still not allowed to be opened. This may seem to you to be such a minor issue, such a very small area, but there are people in that area too, and they have addressed fellow Members and have pointed out that in principle it is incomprehensible why the government ignores them. It was initially promised that on 12 May the opportunity to open up to these centres would be given, then – 1 June... But now... At the moment, given that this Covid-19 law will turn into another law that will have new restrictions, which we read, the government has a very wide mandate to impose all kinds of restrictions, there is a great concern that you, colleagues, will encourage the creation of unequal conditions for individual entrepreneurs. It is not understandable why this is happening, whose interests are currently being lobbying or oppressed. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the gambling business, as we read, will resume after the end of the emergency (unless any amendments are tabled)! If we face a situation where gambling halls will be opened, but children's entertainment centres will still be hard because someone seems to be dangerous, epidemiologically dangerous, place and therefore all children's entertainment centres and cafes have to stand hard, then there are really very great concerns about some hidden interests. I really don't know... I would not like to think that someone in the government is hostile to the children’s entertainment center industry. What could that be? Is that so? Therefore, I call – again and again! – the government to suspect that this area has remained undeserved... So to say, insulted... insulted by you. And especially – given that children's camps are already open – from 1 June... and places of interest education. Why... Is that so? What have you done with children’s entertainment?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If we determine that everything must comply with the epidemiological requirements, and we see how entrepreneurs can transform their institutions into requirements, how all hygiene standards are complied with and how disinfectants are provided, we do not understand this decision. So we invite you to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U422	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U423	Dear viewers and dear society! You see – I'm in the car right now, I'm not in the Saeima building. Participate in the Saeima sitting! Nobody's gonna see... If I were, for example, a disgusting Member, no one would see who would vote for me. And so on. This is, of course, contrary to the Satversme, because Article 22 of the Satversme states: “The sittings of the Saeima are open.”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U424	The specific draft decision!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U425	And on the specific draft decision I...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U426	Mr Gobzem, I call on you to speak about the draft decision!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U427	Monastery, I'd ask you to... Then when the neighbor spoke the rawness, you stood quiet.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U428	I call for the specific draft decision to be discussed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U429	Well, listen very carefully, Mrs. Mourniece, right? And then when the neighbor talks about the rawness, open your armpit!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U430	Talk about the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U431	Of course, gambling... Gambling – there is no danger! They can be played because... Because there's sponsors there. There's Development/About! Sponsors... And maybe sponsors of Unity, I don't know. That's why gambling will be okay – you can't get around with Covid-19! But the kids... The children's square... Although it has long been proven that children are the least sick and the easiest, if any, children's playground cannot be found, children's playground cannot be found. Children have to damage their psyche, they can't go to schools, kindergartens, nowhere! But those who go to gambling, those first... They will first be released. Dear Society! I want you to realise that all these restrictions are anti-democratic. These are restrictions on human rights. There is no reason at all for an emergency. No way! There is no statistical evidence to suggest that there are currently grounds for an emergency as such. Yeah... If the first players are released, then there is a question – why are these priorities? Why is the education system not a priority, the arrangement of schools? Why is the priority not sports grounds, sport as such? Why is the priority not all healthy? Why is gambling a priority? I can give you an answer as to why this is the case. That's why gambling... There are not only these sponsors, but also... As we read in the press, gambling sites are places where money laundering takes place in Latvia. They're money laundering sites. And it is very likely that those politicians who place gambling as priorities, especially those from Development/About! , is involved. I call on young people and all those who support so-called liberal Unity, Development/About! policy, think about it: how can gambling be a priority, not children, not children's fields?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I ask you to think about why priority is given to those things that are not the interests of the people, but those of the sponsors. I call on the Latvian public to look at these issues... and look at how the Saeima sitting is held. Of course, I can do this – to speak in the Saeima sitting in a car, being unaware of where. Maybe in the Red Square. Although the Constitution says that Saeima sittings should take place in Riga.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U432	Please address the specific draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U433	Mrs. Moore, when you stop the village next time...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U434	Please turn off the microphone for Member Gobzem. I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission? Please, the microphone...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U435	Thank you. Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I call on you to support the draft decision drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U436	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Cabinet Order of 21 May 2020 No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 103 promulgating an emergency! On – 83, against – 3, refrains – 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda, reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. Please change the tab. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cultural Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cultural Institutions” to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible! 81, against – 2, refrains – not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Please turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko, who wants to talk about the procedure. Please activate the agenda section on the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U437	I'd like to do it, but it's not possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U438	Wait a minute. Please activate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U439	I'll wait.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U440	Please log in.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U441	Yes, colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U442	Mrs Stepanenko, please apply for a speech. ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Oh, he has applied.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U443	I applied. Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U444	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U445	I applied.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U446	Please count the time system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U447	Thank you, colleagues. I force the button “Apply”. Very kind. I would like to point out that today's Saeima debate... When we heard Mr. Neighbours debating and hearing how he offends other colleagues and also, in principle, degrades the Saeima, the chairman of the sitting did not take any action to stop this, and everyone was forced to listen to what Mr. But we will then be able to read in this verbatim report why the Member Gobzem was suspended in this debate when it comes to the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. I also call on the other Members to record it. And I also call for the future withdrawal of those Members who really do... According to the order of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U448	Thank you. Turn off, please, the microphone member Stepanenko. In today's debate, Members have said a great deal. And I call on all Members to respect each other, to remember that we are in Parliament, and to speak on the subject. We will continue to see the agenda. Please, on the tab... The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums” to the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, which states that it is the committee responsible! There are no – 88, against and abstaining. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Please change the tab. The next item is on the agenda. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! There is no concern about – 84, against and abstaining from –. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Radiation Safety and Nuclear Safety” be submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on radiation protection and nuclear safety to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! There is no – 86, against and abstains. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Agenda item "Provision of draft laws". Draft law “Amendment to law “On accounting of timber and round timber in transactions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U449	Good evening, colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission has reviewed and prepared for consideration at the Saeima sitting the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Accounting of Wood and Round Wood in Transactions””. There are three proposals received. All these proposals come from the Legal Office. The proposal provides for the addition of the title of Chapter V to the title ‘for the accounting of trees and round timber’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U450	And in the Commission, the proposal is supported. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – Proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau! There is no one to - 82, not to and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U451	2. – Legal Bureau proposal. These are technical clarifications to the transitional provisions. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U452	Please vote in favour of 2. – Proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U453	And 3. – Legal Bureau proposal. This is linked to proposal 2, which is about the entry into force of the law. The proposal 2 already clarifies all this and therefore also supports the proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U454	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – Proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau! There is no concern about – 84, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U455	On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft law at second, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U456	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Accounting of Wood and Round Wood in Transactions” in the second, final reading! There is no – 86, against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Maritime Code’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U457	Good evening, colleagues! Let us work on the draft law on amendments to the Maritime Code (No. 479/Lp13). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared this draft law for third reading. No proposals have been received. I call on you fellow Members to support the draft law on the Maritime Code at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U458	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law amending the Maritime Code! No, 89 against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Detaining Procedures Act’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U459	Good evening, colleagues! The third reading of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Detaining Procedures Act’ received one proposal. It is a proposal from the Legal Office, it is a technical clarification. The Commission is supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U460	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – Proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau! There is no - 87 against and refrain from -. Law adopted... We have now voted on the proposal or on the law? I am sorry, we have voted in favour of the proposal. Therefore, proposal 1 has been supported. Please turn on the microphone for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U461	Yeah... Thank you, colleagues, for your support. No other proposals were received. I therefore call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U462	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on detention procedures” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prison Administration”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U463	Colleagues! No proposals were received for the draft law on ‘Amendments to the law on the administration of prisons’. I call for this to be supported at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U464	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prison Administration” in the third, final, reading! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U465	Colleagues! The draft law on Amendments to the Code on the Enforcement of Penalties has received one proposal – a proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is a technical clarification supported by the Commission. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U466	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – Legal Bureau proposal! There is no concern about - 83, against and refrain from -. The proposal is supported. Mr. Rancán.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U467	Thank you, colleagues, for your support. No other proposals have been received for the third reading of the draft law. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U468	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia” in the third, final reading! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Romanas Nadiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U469	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have examined and prepared for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Providers’ Procurement”. And the next two draft laws that will follow... I'll tell you about everyone – about this and about the two next... In the draft legislation, we have technically clarified the definition of the term ‘client’. It is also clarified where substantial modifications to the contract are permitted. Draft legislation was drawn up in the light of the European Commission’s formal notice in infringement proceedings, where the Commission... stated that certain aspects of the existing law could be incompatible with the Directive. Systemicly everything has responded to the Directive so far, but due to the concerns expressed, the relevant amendments have been tabled. I therefore ask my fellow Members to support this and the following two draft laws at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U470	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement”! There is no – 86, against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U471	The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U472	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Romanas Nadiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U473	Yes, we have also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership” at the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy before the first reading. Please support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U474	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership"! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U475	The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U476	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Romanas Nadiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U477	We have also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” before the first reading. Colleagues, please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U478	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U479	The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U480	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act”, first reading. Daniels Pavluts, Member of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U481	Good evening, colleagues! The Commission has examined the draft law on Amendments to the Packaging Act (No. 641/Lp13). This draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to ensure an effective and timely transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council (Directive on packaging and packaging waste), prioritising the prevention, reuse and recycling of waste in line with the waste management hierarchy. In the Commission, the draft law has been examined and supported for the first reading. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U482	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Packaging Act"! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U483	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 2 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U484	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U485	Good evening, dear colleagues! At its meeting of 13 May, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”. The aim of the draft law is to ensure that the requirements of Directive 2018/851 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 2008/98 on waste are taken over in the Latvian regulatory framework regarding extended liability system for manufacturers. In Latvia, extended producer responsibility systems have been established and are functioning. When applying the norms of the Law on Natural Resources Tax in practice, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has established that it is necessary to amend this Law in order to ensure taking over the requirements set by the Directive regarding the extended liability system of producers. The Commission has supported this draft law for first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U486	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” at first reading! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals. Please turn on the microphone for Cielen! A deadline should be set for proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U487	The deadline for the submission of proposals shall be seven days, 4 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U488	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 4 June this year. Honourable Members! Members of the Committee of the Regions, Ms PwC, Mr Steel, Mr Bluke and Mr Stein are asking to announce a break at the extraordinary sitting on 28 May following item 17 of the agenda.... Agenda item 17 and reopening the agenda 30 minutes after the agenda of the remote emergency sitting convened on 29 May this year. Do Members have objections? So we still need to look at Question 17. On the agenda: Draft law on amendments to the Waste Management Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U489	Good evening, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act” at first reading. The draft law is necessary to take over the requirements of three directives in the field of waste management by 5 July 2020. The draft law clarifies the requirements for the application of financial security to waste managers and provides for the introduction of financial security for waste dealers and waste managers. The draft law provides that municipalities in the waste management region draw up a regional waste management plan. The inventory system for shipments of waste is expected to include also the inventory of waste delivered to and exported to waste disposal sites. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U490	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management"! There is no - 87 against and refrain from -. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals. Mr. Janine Kursite, microphone member!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U491	2 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-28-PT13-2083-U492	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 2 June this year. Time to break. Registration of Members is ongoing. Thank you. It has been successfully completed. So, by 29 May, we will resume work 30 minutes after the agenda of the extraordinary meeting on 29 May. Colleagues, so let's keep working tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all today. ( Interruption)
