ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-04-PT13-2072-U1	Hello, honourable Members! Hello, everyone who follows the Saeima sitting! On 4 May 2020, the Saeima opened its formal sitting dedicated to the 30th anniversary of the restoration of independence of the Republic of Latvia. Honourable Members! Our formal sitting is held in extraordinary circumstances, as we have done recently. We are not all together in the Saeima Chamber. Members are in various buildings of the Saeima, so I would like to start by congratulating the political groups. Here, at the Saeima House, is a group of young Conservatives. Good morning! ( On the screen, the New Conservative Group.) Development/About! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( On the screen, Development/Par!) .) The Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! ( On the screen - Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union.) In other buildings of the Saeima: fraction DECLARES! ( On the screen - AGE.) France New Unity! ( On the screen, the New Unity Group.) National associations “All for Latvia!” –‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’ group! ( On the screen – National associations “All for Latvia!” –‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’ group.) Fraction KPV LV! ( On the screen – Group of KPV LV.) And also the independent Members. ( On the screen, independent Members.) The President of Latvia, the Prime Minister, members of the Saeima Presidium and leaders of political groups are here with me. Dear colleagues, Everyone who follows the Saeima sitting! I invite you to watch the film prepared by the Saeima Public Relations Bureau on how everything happened 30 years ago. ( The film is being shown.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-04-PT13-2072-U2	Name for a solemn address to Ināra Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-04-PT13-2072-U3	Honorable people of Latvia! Mr. President of State, Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Members of the Saeima, Ministers! Members of the Supreme Council! 30 years ago, there was no place for the needle to fall down here at the Saeima. Community consciousness and shoulder sensation gave strength and courage. All together and individually. It helped to change Latvia's fate. Today, we – a nation – feel happy in the grand joint choir of the Song Celebration, which during Awakening gathered in grandiose manifestos and stood in the hand by the Baltic way, are forced to be separate – one in a narrow family or at least two meters away from each other. I know that let us learn how to survive this time, and let us learn how to regain strength! Because we have our Latvia and in it we are and will always be all together. Dear Members of the Supreme Council! One of the children of renewed independence born on 4 May 1990 – Raivis Ustinovs – this year before the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the declaration of independence, the Saeima wrote: “I have been born and raised in a free Latvia, I have not experienced the Soviet occupation. I don’t really know what to do to compare life in a free country, because I only know captively from my parents ’ stories. I am happy to live in Latvia, where we can maintain our traditions and cultural values.” That's Raivis Ustinov. But those who were part of the Third Awake!, who argued for freedom, the rule of law, and the recovery of their country, know what to compare with. He knows what life in captivity was like. In the invitation of the Supreme Council to the people of Latvia, which was also adopted on 4 May with the Declaration of Independence, is a concentrated description of exactly what happened during the 50 years of occupation. Artificially induced migration, forced assimilation, desensitisation of Latvian culture, elimination of culture of minorities living in Latvia, dismantling of natural balance of national relations, as well as economic decline and ideological repression. The essence of the deep-seated pain of the nation was expressed by Latvian freedom fighter and dissident Gunārs Astra in his historical words. Seven years before the restoration of independence, on December 15, 1983, Astra said to the court in her “Last Name”: “I know that this time will disappear as an evil nightmare. It gives me the power to stand here and breathe. Our nation has suffered a lot and has therefore learned and will endure this dark time.” Recovery of liberty was not easy, but the vote of 4 May changed everything. Today, we are proud of the fact that the restoration of independence took place in a parliamentary, democratic way. The world experienced the second time we were able to gain freedom in one century. On that day 30 years ago 138 members of the Supreme Council voted to confirm that they were able to look beyond the limits of their personal lives. Can implement the will of the people and change the fate of Latvia. Highly honored members of the Supreme Council! Ms Velta Čebotarenok, the very respected President of the “4 May Declaration Club”! Dear authors of the Declaration of Independence! Mr. Egil Levit! Thank you, who made this declaration 30 years ago! And thank you, who, 30 years ago, here in this Chamber voted in favour of restoring independence. Dear colleagues, Members! Everyone who follows the Saeima sitting! Let us stand up and honor them with tears! Thank you for your freedom. ( The Resurrection Resurrection is on the rise.) Prolonged ruptures.) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your freedom. Honorable citizens of Latvia! In this particular time, I would like to emphasise three things. First. Learn from yourself and draw strength from our own experiences. Let us be proud of our own achievements and how Latvia has grown over 30 years. We are a society in which outstanding scientists and inventors, diplomats and statesmen, world-class artists, doctors and entrepreneurs have grown in these years. Young people who have grown up in the years of renewed independence have made a great contribution to education and experience in the world. We have jointly achieved that Latvia at institutional level is one of the most successful developed countries in Europe. Over the thirty years, we have become a nation of mobility and creativity, a nation of excellence and ambition. All these years we have shown perseverance, wisdom, and courage. We have been helped by the love of work, the ability to agree and decide on the most important things – what we need as a nation. And it will be now! The other thing. In addition to special concerns about the health of Latvian citizens, we will continue to strengthen our security, integration in the democratic part of the world and cooperation with our closest partners in the Baltic States, Nordic countries and the European Union. Europe is in pain during this pandemic, as being the most open part of the world is currently suffering the most. Our friends and allies – Italy, Spain, France, the United Kingdom – were the hardest hit. First of all, the countries were hit by the virus and lost thousands of lives. We're with you! But the confusion lasted only for a moment. In the European Union, everyone is aware of the need for cooperation. A common exit strategy is being developed. Together, we will support researchers and entrepreneurs to be able to better protect people's lives in the future in order to restore one of the most powerful economies in the world as soon as possible. And there are things that we won't change, no matter what time comes. Our foreign policy course is one of these values, and we will stand firm on it. Let us also be prepared for a new world order if it is likely to emerge from this unprecedented crisis. Let us plan how to improve our protection and international positions. We demonstrate constant commitment to strong NATO! Let us continue to defend the national, independent and democratic state of Latvia! Third. When this pandemic and the emergency are over, we will have to be prepared for rapid economic development. And there is no room for calls for some time to forget the legal rules or the principles of good governance or to “remove” KNAB. There will be no fire of chaos in the 1990 ’ s! We will continue to live up to our commitments in terms of the financial system, the business environment, equal opportunities and the fight against poverty. We will continue to support families with children! Let us build our economy dynamic, modern and competitive! It is also important for us to find and name Latvia's unique skills, with which we will be the best in Europe and the world. And there is no place here for the jealousy of sectors. The areas where we can be the best and most competitive must be developed. Honorable fellow humans! As has historically been the case, our people at the most difficult times show that they are capable of acting in a self-free, far-sighted and patriotic manner. How many wise, talented and inspiring people we have! Our country's actions during the pandemic are determined by doctors, experts in its field, not political considerations. And we see that society appreciates it, society trusts and thus can help itself. We feel a great, unfalse thanks when we see the work of emergency doctors and feldchers, police, border guards, rescue service. They do their job daily, often with overload, but we believe that we can trust them. None of them are confused in their position. They shall carry out their duties continuously. Our chosen tactic during the Covid-19 pandemic is one of the most successful. Without drastic bans or total quarantine, we have achieved the most important goal – to maintain the course of lymph disease. This allows to provide the most important – every sick person with the best possible medical care. Thank you to our educators, who were forced to change the way in which subjects were delivered to pupils of different ages in a short time. Their workload has increased many times during this period. Thank you very much to the families. Both those who, despite the potential dangers, go to work daily at the most dangerous points and those who deal with the work remotely and at the same time help their children in their training. Thanks to those who are helping seniors, those who are involved in transport, work in shops, pharmacy and other places where society needs to provide services. Thank you also to the government, which has been active, open and united in this pandemic situation. This has also been welcomed by the public. The most important thing in this time is regular and comprehensive communication. Ability to respond to national and societal needs in a flexible and operational manner. Yes, there is more to pursue, but the government's solutions are comprehensive and fast. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, also in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, has given a strong signal. With the support of both institutions, we help to return to our countrymen and nationals from around the world. And this work continues. I would like to thank all our partners in the European Union, in particular the two other Baltic countries and the Nordic countries, Germany and Poland for their consular assistance and support for the repatriation of our citizens. We will have to coordinate our actions as closely as possible in order to gradually open borders when the situation allows them. All of us have a new experience. It is therefore important that we are able to work together and support each other. Honourable Members! Colleagues! Thank you all for your joint work. We are successfully continuing our legislative role. And the Latvian Saeima is one of the best examples in Europe of how Parliament can continue to work even in the most difficult situation. When most of the parliamentarians unexpectedly came to self - isolation, we immediately decided to work at a distance. We have chosen the way in which the Saeima can continue to operate in full composition, and this is very important. We are now one of the first European parliaments to be able to carry out parliamentary work digitally. We are already introducing an e-Europe. Thank you for your active work, organization and patience! The President of Latvia, the Saeima, the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court in this exceptional situation set the objective of ensuring the full functioning of all constitutional organs of the country. And the Saeima continues to carry out legislative work and to exercise parliamentary control over the activities of the Cabinet. As Chairman of the Saeima, the work of a secure and full parliament is very important to me. A few days ago, on 1 May, 100 years have passed since the Constitutional Meeting was convened. The Constitutional Meeting was a pre-Parliament of Latvia and it ensured a broad representation of the opinion of the people. Parliamentary democracy was established when the Constitutional Meeting was convened in our country. It was parliamentaryism that helped us to maintain the doctrine of the continuity of Latvia. The principles of parliamentaryism allowed the state to regain its independence after 50 years of Soviet occupation. Therefore, whatever time we may experience, the Saeima – the Latvian Parliament – has to work. The anthem of our country has been alive and maintained for 100 years. In June, 100 years have passed since Baumani Kārlis’s song “God bless Latvia!” official identification of the anthem. The Constitution, parliamentaryism, flag, anthem – all we own today, and these are the treasures of our country. Honourable countrymen! All Latvian patriots! The state of Latvia has entered the second century. It has been 30 years since independence was restored. It's not a long time when we look at a century, but it's quite a long time when we value human life. Today, our great wealth and advantage is that we are together several generations that have grown together with our country. Both Latvian peers, who were born at the same time as the founding of the state in 1918, and young people, who were born on 4 May 1990. Four five generations in one place and each of their own experiences. Your story about your life and about Latvia. The children of May 4 have grown up, and many have become their own parents. Several of them have sent heartwarming words of gratitude to members of the Supreme Council and their wishes to future generations. Anita Ivčenko wrote: “My wish is to love and appreciate Latvia. I returned from abroad with another view to our country. I suddenly saw here all the special things that aren't in other places. We have much to be grateful for. I wish both this generation and future generations to live with a positive view to our heart and to work together to develop our country.” It writes Anita. Together and each with our experience and knowledge, we will do and lighten every other day. Welcome to the 30th anniversary of the restoration of the independence of Latvia! May all have much strength and wisdom, and let all have good health. Let's love Latvia! God bless Latvia!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-04-PT13-2072-U4	Thank you to the Speaker of the Saeima. ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-04-PT13-2072-U5	Thank you all. Thus, I declare the sitting of the Saeima dedicated to the 30th anniversary of the restoration of independence of the Republic of Latvia closed. May all be beautiful this day! Thank you. Video transmission of the sitting
