ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U1	Welcome, honourable Members. I call for seats to be held in the Saeima Chambers. The agenda for the meeting on 14 May 2020 will continue to be examined. On the agenda – draft law “Amendment to law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” (No. 688/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. We are continuing the debate on proposal 3. On the procedure. Please... You have applied for a procedure to speak or to speak in the debate? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzem: “I am in the debate, but I want to talk about the procedure.” ) Please turn on the microphone for Member Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U2	Mrs. Moore! Two technical issues. Given that independent Members have not been given the right to form a political group and therefore the independent Members do not want to do their own technical work and count votes today, we have no answer: who will count our votes? That's a question number one. We announced in advance that we would be in the great Saeima. And the question is two, about the procedure speaking. Given that a reply was received from the Legal Bureau last week that this distance in the Saeima was of a recommendive nature, the question is: is it technically possible to debate today from the parliamentary tribunal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U3	Thank you. Let me start with the answer to the second question. No, it's not possible to debate from the parliamentary tribunal. Regarding the first question. You have chosen your voter – Linda Liepiņa. Thus, Members have the option of choosing what they want – either to come and work or to do different things. I call on you rationally... come and work. If you cannot count your own four votes, then say it is impossible. Yeah... You've done a great job so far. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “On procedure! Mrs. Moore, on the procedure! Mrs. Mūrniece, about the procedure!’ ) Please! You have had the opportunity, and you have shown that you are perfectly able to count your own voices. If you declare that suddenly you are no longer capable of doing so, then the Saeima will think of this question... order. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) Please turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U4	Dear colleagues, Other non-attached Members are also present in this House, whose votes are cast by Feldman, who has been elected to vote in this Chamber. Mrs Mūrniece, your vote is also Mr Feldman, not your group. Therefore, Mrs Mūrniece, please do not try to humiliate non-group Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U5	Mrs Stepanenko, no one is trying to humiliate you. If suddenly you've got a nigga...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U6	And please do what you have decided in this...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U7	Please turn off the microphone member Stepanenko. If you suddenly have an insurmountable problem and you suddenly cannot count your own four votes. — Dep. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) ... No one tries to humiliate you... Then let's try to find... Let's find a way to... Which can count you. ( Internouncing call.) Okay, we're closing this debate. Well, give the sheets to Krišjānis Feldman. ( Interface: “There was a week’s time to prepare! ” ) You did not formally submit... Officially, this wish to come to the Meeting Hall of the Saeima was not applied for or registered anywhere. Give the pages to Feldman! He will be able to add four more votes. (Applause) Let's start the sitting. Debate on proposal 3. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U8	Yes, Mrs. Murniece, I hope that it will be technically possible for the next sitting... You can talk from the Saeima Tribe. This is, however, a parliament! On VAT. On June 6, 2005, that is, almost 15 years ago, Krišjānis Kariņš said publicly in the media that he would fight for a 5 percent reduction in VAT. 15 years have passed, but he has still not won this fight. In today's circumstances, he has the right to sign, and even now he cannot win this fight! This clearly shows two things. The case number one: either Mr. Kariņš is incompetent and incapable or... The other thing is Mr. Kariņš is a liar. In today's circumstances, knowing how the previous sitting of the Saeima ended... It is quite clear that its Saeima sitting ended in order to compromise the issue of reducing VAT by 5 percent. Atis Zakaistov was called out of KPV LV to demolish this issue because we were very close to reducing VAT at the previous Saeima sitting. I would like to address the Group's CPV LV today. Fraction KPV LV, you have to cope today with the fact that Atim Zakaistov has no spine! If you publicly agreed that you would support a reduction in VAT, what has changed exactly over these few days? What did you sell? Why do you always sell something and do not follow your own principles? I call on you today to stand up for your principles and show the people that you have them at all. Don't stand for these...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U9	Thank you. The debate is over. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U10	Hello, colleagues! I ask for support for the opposition's proposal for a reduced VAT rate for the tourism sector. I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture carried out in the previous period... Reduction of VAT and... for certain agricultural products... later a study by the University of Agriculture on the impact on the overall economy, the benefits for those working in the sector... gave a very tangible contribution. Both the Ministry of Agriculture had supported reduced VAT on food, as well as those retail chains that sold agricultural goods that were sold in Latvia. All of this gave an additional contribution and also a multiplier effect to the whole Latvian economy. Therefore, the reservations that this provision will not bring any additional benefit to companies operating in the sector, hotels, restaurants, people who work there are misleading explanations, which are not true. Please support this rule. I think that the Group's KPV LV too cheaply and too quickly returned to the ruling political elite. In particular, it should be borne in mind that, already on the day following the decision not to support these provisions, the Youth Unity Group proposed a reduction in VAT on foodstuffs... as well as several others in that range... It obviously points to a very weak and unsubstantiated, and very derogatory... a position for the members and the political power of the JPV LV as such. Please support this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U11	Thank you. Name of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezainius.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U12	Thank you. Honourable Members! The situation is not so clear at the moment. We have developed a strategy for Latvia on economic recovery. We have created and continue to work on various support mechanisms for the tourism and hospitality sector, the catering industry, so that it brings as much added value as possible, in general. And what we have already agreed conceptually on is aid in two stages: aid to those operators whose activities have in principle been suspended because of Covid-19 restrictions; aid specifically aimed at restoring the activity, restoring a full operation, including those whose activities have been partially, say, affected. If we look at the whole, then value added tax for a zero turnover company is exactly zero. Such aid to an undertaking at this point in time, when he has an obligation towards the suppliers of the products, when he still has an obligation to rent premises, will give virtually nothing. And the fact that we're making this claim... and we consider this tax reduction as a contribution, that is to say. And we will also continue to fight for a reduction in value added within the budgetary framework so that we can already see then conceptually how this will affect the economy as a whole. But at the moment, we need these instruments, which will help the businessman to get back to work, to hire employees again and to pay taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U13	Thank you. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U14	I would like to bring together the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U15	Are there objections to combining the two speaking times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U16	Hello! I'm going from Sigulda every day. And there's a place in the Wangagas where they sell capstones on the right side. And those tombstones are written: “On the prices of the crisis.” I use this, starting my speech, to draw attention to the probably innate power of our people – that even in difficult circumstances... that in fact, among the choices that are most difficult, we are trying to find some optimism and say that the best among the worst is, however, the path that is going on. I am glad to talk about this issue and I would like to draw people's attention... Yes, it is completely objective that industry – catering... and accommodation sector – have objectively the most affected and... Obviously the worst hit. And no one needs to prove it in society. When we think about how to help this sector, we have to ask ourselves: what would be the best choice from many bad choices? And in terms of VAT... VAT is not the only way to help industry. The sector can be helped in three ways. The first is a reduction in VAT. The second is the Voucher, or... increase the amount of money in the sector in principle. And the third one is gravel. And now VAT is not an end in itself. The aim is to help the sector. And if we're thinking about reducing VAT, then... at this point in time, when the crisis is in principle zero, it really does not help anyone. Yeah... 21 per cent of zero, if I don't have maths, it's zero. And 12 percent of the zero is also zero. And 5 percent of the zero is also zero. At this point, when we think about how to revive the sector, we need to think about how to help those people who have closed companies. They need capital in the form of grants, so that they can buy food, promote themselves, and open up their industries. And that needs money. On the other hand, the sector as a whole needs an influx of capital. And the capital influx will not be rapid from tourism at the moment. Such an influx of capital could be provided by the state to society. And these are the two directions in which we should work, thinking about the future... development. VAT is not the only way to help industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U17	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U18	Hello, colleagues! I will not turn to the wolf sheep's skin, Mr. Zakatistov, who, in my opinion, was the greatest manipulator of KPV LV. Nor will I turn to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who does not know why we are talking about a reduction in value added, not a tax. Well, it only shows the weak perception of economic processes. I will turn to KPV LV, my former colleagues, to Ieva, to Kaspars, to Ivara. No one will understand once again your unusual ideas, which will probably have happened since Thursday when you spoke about a reduction in VAT for the industry. And if you may have changed your mind today, think about why and why someone tries to manipulate your opinion and conscience once again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U19	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U20	Dear colleagues, Those who are fighting the grey zone in this sector, Reir called it "populated". Reir is a Communist – said Kaimiņš, Member Kaimiņš, 12. In the family. And obviously this ghost of communism is so pronounced that Mr. Kaimiņš was afraid today. He was afraid of the Communist – just as most of his members, former members, KPV LV were afraid of the Communist. I understand that Communism hasn't been left in our land... It has disappeared and this submissiveness to this gospel of communism is very strong today. I am, of course, calling for this proposal to be voted in favour. But... We see very well today's treason in front of the industry – that those people who promised to support... We see what is happening today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U21	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U22	We can hand in hand 250 million without an in-depth discussion to airBaltic. 250 million, which means that this service sector has been tax-free for almost three years... Imagine what help it would be like. Instead, the best bartender in the world must weep at the Latvian Television Channel 1. Because he's been thrown by the country. And not their only one. A lot of people in Latvia have been cast by the country. And that's your responsibility, coalition! Your responsibility. How do you make Latvian society! So today – perhaps for the first time in a long time – vote something for people! Change! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U23	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U24	Dear colleagues, There is such a series “She lie better”. When we look at this coalition, it seems that this “serial” could be called “They know better”. They always talk to themselves, and even in those rare cases when they ask the industry what support it needs... Industry responds: “Reducing VAT, please, at least for the post-crisis period!” Then they say: “No! We know better! Imagine something else!” And the support the industry requires to really provide their help to more than 30 thousand employees is not being given! Feed with empty promises that there will be any gravels (I think that as their ears without a mirror don’t see), call the sector the possessed... and finally – think that tombstones are really such a kind of accommodation. As long as you think so, you will really put a bubble in a whole sector with an extremely large number of employees. Support it at last! The industry itself says it will help them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U25	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U26	I too... Allow me a very bright quote to use, which Mr Zakatistov mentioned... Because it is also necessary to understand to Mr KPV LV and Mr Zakatistova that that tombstone is the vote of this party on this proposal... There will be several more letters in that gravestone that will stand on KPV LV, so to speak, the sites to be buried. For there will be buried those beautiful intentions, those beautiful proposals, those beautiful slogans that this political power and Mr. Zakatistov... with Mr Nemir and Mr Wittenberg... used when starting the Saeima elections (and most likely will continue to try to start). However, there is no logic and consistency in these arguments. Mr Nemir's arguments are absolutely inconceivable with economic truth. A 5 percent reduction in VAT would have an additional effect and would make the sector much more competitive and viable than ever. And other sectors – the same way.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U27	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U28	Hello, colleagues! Indeed, this proposal is about supporting sectors, both the tourist accommodation and the catering sector. But not in the way that the government has so far provided this support. The government has so far learned to give benefits. But this proposal is about economic stimulation, about increasing demand. On how to stimulate people to choose services in the sectors that are really complete at the moment... stopped. Last week, when it was discussed on this proposal, the Old Town was mentioned. But, believe me, these sectors have stopped even more in the Latvian countryside. We're talking about value added tax, we're talking about... 21 minus 5 is 16 percent... And to make it clear to everyone what it is about – it's about how to melt what's standing. That is, if we assume that with the current tax, the load that needs to be moved is 100 kilograms heavy, then by applying this reduced tax, the weight of the load will be just 84 kilograms. And everyone who understands something from the mechanics will realize that it is easier to melt 84 pounds [84 kg] from the site than 100 pounds [100 kg]. That is why the arguments that have been heard today from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics and also from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance that if we charge value added tax from zero... and that is zero in the present case, when it comes to value added tax as an incentive instrument... the arguments are not in place. So I repeat it again! – the story is about stimulating demand in these sectors. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U29	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U30	Hello, colleagues! I think we all know what is happening here. There's a big theatre show going on. Absolutely everyone is aware of this, but trying to imagine that they don't understand. Last sitting in this theatre performance, even the highest-grade, highest-ranking start was tested to start this game. You know, there's sometimes a wish not to participate in this game. But we have people waiting for the finals of this game. And one of those who are waiting is Jānis Jenzis, the long-term head of the Latvian Restaurant Society. I think that the person who has led the industry for many years absolutely understands everything about both this business and the figures – about zeros and about changes in the value of zeros. But he doesn't know why he still demands... He very much expected that the Saeima would support the industry with this 5 per cent VAT! I don't know why YOUNG UNITY and the Prime Minister gave the hint that here will be not this reduced, 5 per cent, VAT for two industries, but... reduce VAT on food products. Maybe they have a different economic knowledge than the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Mr Miezaiņš, who does not know why tax cuts are not an instrument for economic recovery... in the specific sector affected by the Covid-19 restrictions. I very much hope that the ruling coalition will not continue to show its ignorance in the economy today and will not continue this absurd, theatrical political game.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U31	Thank you. It's over. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U32	Highly honored queues... KPV LV grade Members, I appeal to you! Do you really think that if the new President of your party, Mr Zakatistov, now says that... For tourism, the reduced rate... what has been proposed by your Minister for Economic Affairs... That's all that stupid, isn't it? Because there is no turnover, but there are vouchers, but there are benefits... and so on... And you think it's going to go! Have you not noticed that if Mr Zakatistov says that this is a stupidity, because businesses do not have any turnover (which added value there?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. )... This means that your Minister for Economics, who himself has offered it... Then it turns out he's... That he's a fool? Why has he made such a proposal? Your... Former Minister for Economics, Mr Nemiro, who said last Thursday: "How a good proposal!" - He's a fool, too? That's what happens, right? And you – what? You think the constituents of this... Hasn't noticed anything? Have you not understood that all this is being done to humiliate you in order to show the general public, your constituents, how easy it is to make sure that you change your...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U33	Thank you. It's over. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U34	Colleagues! For me, the proposal is how we could get out of this situation. I think if... As KPV LV’s colleagues mentioned... So if the tax is charged at zero, then it's zero. Because now... Well, then also the loss of tax revenues... There will be no one either. If we accept such a rate, it will not change anything. But in general, if you're talking about these gravels – well, why not? Well, let's go those gravels, let's go other support mechanisms, but let's go this too! Because if we look... You will find international portals – BBC or CNN – where what happens now... Countries show it – finally opened the beach in France, Italy... Now, while they have these restrictions! They already attract tourists. They are already taking decisions, allocating various support mechanisms. We'll wait for tax reform?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Colleagues, when will it still be? So that I am calling for decisions to be made now and for competitiveness to be fought. Colleagues, let us become competitive now, not at a later stage! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U35	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U36	I forgot to tell you what young people think about you. Young people studying, for example, in higher education and working in restaurants, cafes, bars, hotels for guests, bartenders, cooks, chefs, and so on. They tell you: “For your sake, we are forced to go now and ask for the credit, the money that we could have earned in the past.” Talk to those Latvian guides who were self-employed and for whom SRS, your managed SRS, refused to give up the allowance! And now you want someone to believe you? Everyone will remember both this moment and everything that took place during the crisis with cut-off benefits and with all economic support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U37	The name to Member Kaspars Girgen for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U38	For the first time, let's see! Hello, colleagues! Today, for the first time...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U39	Second time! Mr. Girgen, the Saeima Meeting Security Division says: for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U40	I'm sorry! I would like to say that I am still on my own, because the industry needs – right now and now! – help. We're talking, for example, about vouchers or some kind of... another type of system that could have as a complement effect, but, in my sense, it would be that... it starts running after a short time... after a longer period. But reducing VAT is something that would already be felt... already now, at the first tax payments. And that would allow those companies that, let us say, have survived, also to maintain a breakthrough. And, of course, we should not forget about those companies that are locked up! I would also like to draw attention to this: we also have a question about airBaltic: airBaltic does not make 250, but if I am not mistaken, we already give 282 or 283 million. And... Can you please combine... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U41	You have the second time in the debate. There's no more to unite. Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U42	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Welcome, sitting viewers and listeners! The proposal, which has just been debated, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – Member Reiznieces–Ozola, Valaiņa, Vucana, Koite, Bergmana, Plant, Dombrovska, Liepiņa, Gobzema, Stepanenko, Smita, Papule and Svekova! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U44	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 3: - 36, - 39, abstaining - 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U45	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U46	4. - a proposal from Members Lochmeles-Lunovo, Svekova, Dombrovskis and Goldberg, which provides for a change in the legislation on the cut-off allowance. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U47	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... wishes to have a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U48	Hello, colleagues! I think it's one of the most logical proposals today, because it's in favour... The minimum threshold for the benefit, or the so-called ‘aid floor’, of €180, should apply to any member of the State’s officially established tax regime affected by the restrictions imposed by Covid-19 on its spread. The saga for the pass benefit will enter the history of the Latvian economy with its insanity and with its absurd course, which, believe me, has been appreciated by thousands of Latvians. Because it was not received in due time because... and so wrong decisions were made, people left without work... people who don't know why they're here... The State Employment Agency has registered as unemployed, instead of staying in the workplace and receiving this retirement allowance. At the moment, the situation is that... For all who have refused this allowance by SRS, our Prime Minister promised one day: “Behold, we will correct this error, and you will have it!” But it is currently the case that the self-employed who were previously refused SRS still do not have this 180 euros. As it is not the case for patent payers who are still not being thought of in this country. Everything we hear is just promises. Until these promises are fulfilled, I will ask each time we have a law on Covid-19 events in our country on our Saeima's agenda. Now I am asking for this 180 euros to be for everyone who had turned to the State Revenue Service for a stop pay. Please support my proposal and thus also support the Latvian Ombudsman's proposal to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U49	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U50	Dear colleagues, We were approached by sports coaches who are still fighting as self-employed and trying to understand the football of the State Revenue Service, which is played with them by the State Revenue Service officials and also the Cabinet of Ministers. I mean, the fact that they get as self-employed people... they are not entitled to this severance grant on the ground that they have paid too little in taxes. Indeed, this proposal would solve this problem, which is... the next problem, in this case, the fall of these sports coaches through the end benefit sieve. People, of course, do not have any savings made, with which they could survive at the moment. They also have credit, they have their daily payments. And since sports coaches had been denied the possibility to continue working during this period, the state would have had to take care that they would also have the opportunity to receive the death benefit. But now it's that it's... These decisions of the State Revenue Service can, of course, be appealed against, but... We know very well that if the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers (as they are) are not changed, then people will just be shown the doors again. We want to... Indeed, we call on the government to think about the fact that there is a very large group of people... More specifically, for illustration – sports coaches... self-employed workers who have currently fully received state aid. We ask you to support this proposal. We ask you to think about people who do not have any means of subsistence at the moment. And that's not because they haven't made savings... because they couldn't make savings, because of course they had that kind of salary... but because the state of this...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U51	Thank you. It's over. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U52	Last night, I was talking to a sports teacher on the phone. He called me and told me that initially he had to apply for an end-of-life allowance and, of course, the State Revenue Service refused him because he was a self-employed person. And then he heard that on television Karin and Asheraden said that these people should apply for a stop support allowance. And these sports teachers applied for a stop support allowance, but until now they have not received any help. And at the same time in Germany... I had a phone conversation yesterday with an entrepreneur who has one of the companies in Germany. He tells me, “You know what it is? I open a bank account one day and look at it – I have some money credited. It's pretty big. I see – what has counted on me? The German authorities have counted on me! I have not even applied for any support system. The German Government has simply credited me with the thanks for working in the German tax regime!’ What is happening in Latvia? In Latvia, people are forbidden to work and then tell them that they do not have the right to receive support! And at the same time... They say that the minimum subsistence in Latvia is greater than the support that you offer to a particular group. At the same time, you have the resources for many other things. Now your temporary council in Riga, for example, is looking for 3000 euro council members. There was no council, we now need to set up a council, in times of crisis. That's how you work, coalition! You're not interested in people. You're just interested in... You're on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U53	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U54	Colleagues! The grantor of a patent fee who has been refused an end-of-life allowance shall not be entitled to apply for the end-of-life allowance. An author who, according to Latvian legislation, has received royalties but has not registered as a self-employed person, because there are no amounts received each month, has no right to receive a severance grant. Patent fee-payers are also still not entitled to the end-of-life allowance. These are issues that the government promised to resolve just two weeks ago while pressing the "no" or "no" button when it comes to opposition proposals. Today I am looking at the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers, but I still do not see these issues on the agenda. I see that there is an information report here on safe and remote work in public administration. Well, colleagues, my call – now we look at the walls of public administration, ministries and institutions just a little away! There's a lot of people there who already have nothing to eat today, tomorrow and the other day. I will mention one sector. The sport was already being played... But in the cultural sector, because of the refusal to organise events, 11 600 workers – more than 11 and a half thousand employees! And its statistics are rather sad: of those who work in this sector and turn to the State Revenue Service at all to receive support, only less than 60 percent qualify; 40 percent of those who go for help in good faith because they have paid taxes receive a refusal. People, of course, have a valid question – how much does hope cost? Especially in a situation where Karin still says... and other officials... that we have a lot of money and will help all of us.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U55	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U56	Continuing the argument on its proposal could point to the fact that some of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers should be considered illegal because they do not comply with the Satversme. Article 91 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia provides: “All people in Latvia are equal before the law and the court. Human rights shall be exercised without discrimination." On the other hand, Regulation No. 236 governments have allowed unjustified differences in treatment of self-employed workers, including patent-payers. of a kind used in the manufacture of motor vehicles of Chapter 87 Point 236... Point 3.1 specifically supported the general tax regime's entrepreneurs (including those whose former activities were not fair in the State's eyes) without providing equivalent support to tax-payers recognised in the Republic of Latvia, who are self-employed, who, by the way, are also honest. We also need these...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U57	Thank you. The speaking time is over. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U58	Hello, dear colleagues! When the first major crisis began – in 2008 – there was also a call: “Please, for one lats you can set up your SIA and earn money!” And, of course, many people went and founded it, and they started to do something. But... There is a saying: the honour of paying taxes to this country. Because if you do it honestly, then you know that if you get bad, the state will help. Now it's the case... People simply because of the international situation regarding the coronavirus cannot earn anything because the state does not allow them to move and make their own business... they require their minimum: “Help now, now!” And you don't want to support it. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U59	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U60	When I was travelling to the Saeima today, I spoke to an entrepreneur who said: “I paid 180 thousand euros in taxes last year, but now I got a cheap from the country. I fired 17 people! And I understood very well this country’s “happiness”. In future, I will not pay taxes to the State of Latvia.” That's what the businessman told me, telling me about what the country has told him. And the same with artists. How, then, will we warm up the cultural sector? We'll build another... Let's get a bit of concrete... We'll build another concert hall so it's empty. Supporting artists, supporting cultural people – we do not need this. Let them leave! The main thing for us is to build a concert hall on concrete, it will be heating the economy today, supporting people in times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U61	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U62	Colleagues! All these crises, in my opinion, the main motive that we all have to think about, would be how to not make another'success story', where, at the end of the day, everyone benefits, except the people of the country themselves. And that's... The matter should be considered from that point of view, whether we have already missed these extensions of the soft pay. And did we really miss this opportunity to help people in some way? Well, let's see how other European countries are. Ireland, for example, has 350 euros per week... paid to a man. Due to this Covid-19 crisis, the opportunity to work... 350 euros per week... And they gave it to everyone. And for me too... I mean, many people... I think that every one of us has a familiar relative, a friend, or a acquaintance who works in Ireland. I really called, and she told me how the situation was there, and there people are sure about their situation, because it really is this support that is being given to everyone. At present, in Ireland, discussions have started on how to reduce this aid, which areas will resume work, in what way... which areas are more stimulating and so make it not only a success story for the country, but also for its citizens. It really happens that the government is in some way, well, somehow afraid of everyone and only thinks of government institutions, very narrowly looking at the issue... and from various organizations that have been signalling for months... signals that we need support... It turns out we can't hear it. But, at the same time, you can't stay away from... In a moment's time, we will talk about how we are simply spending EUR 250 and more million. So, I don't think it's...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U63	Thank you, thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U64	In the Commission, proposal 4 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U65	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. – Proposal by Members Lochmeles–Lunovo, Svekova, Dombrovskis and Goldberg! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U66	Result of the vote on proposal 4: 30, 50, abstention: 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U67	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U68	5. – Proposal by Reiznieces–Ozola, Valaiņa, Vucana, Bergmana, Many, Plant, Dombrovskis, Liepiņa, Gobzem, Stepanenko, Smita, Papule and Svekova. Changes in the regulation of end-of-life benefits are foreseen. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U69	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U70	Colleagues! Continuing on the subject, this is a clear proposal to remedy the shortcomings that exist in the system of idle benefits, which we see from people's experience. One part of this proposal provides: if a person is self-employed and if the State Revenue Service refuses his or her severance grant, then he or she has the right to apply for a severance grant at the State Social Insurance Agency – EUR 180. There are quite a number of such cases where self-employed workers are refused because there is a requirement to pay at least EUR 20 per national social security contribution, which means... month... Which means that it is very much for the self-employed to earn five percent of the social security contributions... EUR 20 can be collected. The second case is the beneficiaries of royalties. We don't need law... While the amount earned does not reach the minimum monthly salary – 480 euros at present – it is not mandatory to register as a self-employed person. In the creative sector in particular, there are very many cases where the author receives royalties. Its amounts are not very high and are therefore not registered as self-employed. They also do not have the right to end-of-life benefits and also to end-of-life assistance. We offer to pay at least EUR 180 for these people. It will reach a very large number of individual free artists, for whom the Ministry of Culture is still looking for criteria, thinking about how they could be supported. It is also possible to establish that this benefit can be received from the beginning of March for the reason that there are many authors who have applied to the State Revenue Service. He didn't know he'd get the opt-out. The State Revenue Service even helps, says, please register as self-employed. Thanks also to the State Revenue Service for these consultations, but they can only register authors as self-employed persons from 1 May, which means that no assistance can be received for March, for April – not only for the following month.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U71	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U72	Colleagues! In my opinion, this is a very good proposal for those who once thought that we really wanted to grant a EUR 180 benefit to all those who had previously fallen through the so-called soft pay tie. We are already seeing that, unfortunately, neither the government nor the existing support system is functioning as a single mechanism, and there are still very many people who do not get a stop benefit and, unfortunately, for some reason too, do not claim this... to this lump sum allowance in the event that they do not receive a severance grant. So... Yes, Mrs Stepanenko had previously read the letter sent by the sports coaches. And they're not the only ones. So... I ask if our wish, the wish of the legislator, has indeed been to support with a lump sum allowance of EUR 180 for everyone who currently does not receive income and is absent, then I think this is an excellent proposal for you to vote on it with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U73	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U74	Colleagues! We therefore ask the government to pay attention to the situation where a number of self-employed workers... Well, I don't know, I think thousands of people have already... who receive these refusals and don't really know what to do, the more simply all the doors are closed. In this situation, I really... I am also a little surprised at the fact that we also have the Head of the Sports Sub-Commission here in Saeima's meeting room, and he has not in any way responded to the fact that, in fact, the representatives of the industry under his supervision are asking to draw attention to the fact that there is such a problem. But now... I have not seen any sports sub-committees convene a meeting to deal with this issue. I understand that these coaches will soon turn to the government and the other Members, if they have not done so yet, with a request to solve this problem, not so that perhaps sometime in May or, I do not know, in June or July, they will get some EUR five, but that they will be able to actually cover their daily expenses from this cut-off allowance. Because people really have such a special feature that they have to eat every day and pay public charges. There's nothing to do with it. And unlike you, honourable colleagues, they don't have any savings. They don't have any cash in the bank. They just live from what they get. Please simply understand that without you, there are ordinary people in Latvia who do not have excessive savings, from which they can in some way survive these two months. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U75	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U76	I wanted to complement my colleague Julia Stepanenko. We really have the official head of the sports sub-commission Sandis Riekstins, but the only connection to him with the sport is that he could enter history as the first member of the Saeima, who has raised a fight in the Saeima hall. This is the only achievement in the field of sport.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U77	On the proposal, please, Mr Gobzem! On the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U78	It's about the proposal, Mrs. Mourniece! Listen carefully. Listen carefully to you, Mrs. Mourniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U79	Talk about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U80	It's about sports. You should listen to the sport, Mrs. Mūrniece, carefully! When you need to support sports teachers, then Sandis Riekstins goes to pee if. This is his achievement in investing and supporting sports teachers. There is no more support from Sanda Riekstin. Clearly there are other problems, why it is. Because this post is also occupied only because of the tradesmanship – as the majority, who then sew that they have more or less... Then, for low compensation at the salary when you have to go to work, there's something, and for little compensation, and so on. Therefore, this is the main reason why sports teachers are not supported. Sandis Riekstins from the UK does not support the sport industry. That must be said in good faith. He doesn't support sports teachers, because the only thing he... will, there are illegal methods in the Saeima hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U81	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission... Is that so? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U82	In the Commission, proposal 5 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U83	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. – Member Reiznieces–Ozola, Valaiņa, Vucana, Bergmanis, Many, Plant, Dombrovskis, Liepiņa, Gobzem, Stepanenko, Smita, Papule and Svekova! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U84	Outcome of the vote on proposal 5: 32, 50, abstention: 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U85	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U86	6. – Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Vucana, Planta, Dombrovska, Liepiņa, Gobzema, Stepanenko, Smita, Svekova and Papule. A change in the right of the Minister of Finance to decide on investments in state-owned companies and other institutions is envisaged. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U87	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U88	Yes, indeed, colleagues, the essence of the proposal is to state that any investment in a state-owned company or a capital company in which the state plays a crucial role, or the ministries of appropriations, must be coordinated with the Saeima for that purpose. To a large extent, this proposal is due to the fact that, without sufficient public discussion, the government has decided, without a clear justification, to invest EUR 286 million in airBaltic's share capital. At the same time, we're trying here to argue about who to give the death benefit... an aid allowance of EUR 180, which shall not be granted. One dozen million all these months have been paid to the real economy – citizens and businesses. And, of course, it's the huge conviction the government had a few weeks ago, the Minister of Transport Linkait and the leadership of airBaltic argued that it would be 150 million euros, now up to 150 euros. A few weeks later, there is now a new plan for Destination 2025 CLEAN, where the necessary funding is EUR 286 million. If we also look at the experience of other countries, we can see very well that this support looks very generous at least against the background of others. This is more than half of airBaltic's annual turnover; it is more than, for example, other airlines receive from their governments, where Austrian Airlines, for example, has promised only guarantees – everything. Edelweiss Air – also guarantees. And SAS - also credit guarantees. The government of Latvia alone can be so generous that we do not explain what the benefit will be for taxpayers to invest in fixed capital (a very significant amount), without saying what it will be used for, what benefit for Latvian taxpayers and who will be the beneficiary – is it not ultimately the leasing company of the aircraft and not the taxpayers of Latvia?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U89	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U90	Colleagues, I would also like to draw attention to this proposal from this point of view – why did we even submit it? Well, that's... There's some reflections... We've been here for two months... In the family in these times of crisis, each of us in our room discusses and disputes, moving over hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions... And to be honest, the Saeima has actually not actually introduced anything itself. We are doing this in relation to the displacement of such ruins, in contrast to what the government is doing at the moment. And I'm not saying that the government doesn't have to do it, but one of you... have we given this right to the government? Of course, with this Covid-19 law, this right is given to the government, which we see the government does not hesitate to use. But if we're here now... on the previous proposals, we talked about the relatively small amounts that could ensure that people really could help in some way in this crisis, we are, in principle, providing such huge, many hundred million-value support mechanisms here without the political support of the Saeima, in fact in such a way... dubious situations. My colleague, Dana, has told us correctly about the experience in other countries with the support of airlines. Likewise, this shadow of doubt does not disappear as to whether such amount of aid does not include any previously produced losses and problems that would already happen, are now simply wiped out with the Covid-19 shadow. I think none of the politicians in this law... voting in favour of the Covid-19 law, had not already voted, knowing that it also gives the government the right to spend hundreds of millions without the mandate of the Saeima. This, however, requires some political mandate. In the past, the Saeima has always looked at such large investments...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U91	Thank you, thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U92	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Well, it's pretty interesting for us here. For more than two months already, the coalition, the government cannot accept anyone – no one! – a specific decision for several tens of thousands of people employed in the tourism sector. It's just for us today... We have Mr Zakatistova's reasoning that it is possible to help with vouchers, perhaps with reduced tax rates and so on. Well, those solutions are already... Well, how? For two months now, you have been deciding what this will be – vouchers or reduced tax rates. But at the same time, the government, I believe, abused the power conferred by the Saeima to take decisions in the context of the crisis without coordination with the Saeima... has misused this right by taking this decision without any consultation at all... The members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission know nothing about this, the Saeima do not know much about it... over 250 million of them. 280 plus to... if we are accurate. And then, colleagues, if this is more... As my colleague said... This represents more than half of airBaltic’s revenues over a period of one year. If we compare it with other airlines, then, for example, if we move towards the Nordic countries, only about 7 per cent of SAS's annual revenue is allocated to SAS in the same Nordic countries. And not a grant, not an investment in equity, but a loan. Lufthansa – only 36 per cent of annual revenues, and also with requirements. Negotiations are currently under way on what requirements Lufthansa will have. What requirements do you have with regard to airBaltic, with regard to the salaries of board members, with regard to other parameters? Are you just... the company has submitted a business plan to you and you are now paying the taxpayer...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U93	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U94	Colleagues, we all remember well when this Covid-19 crisis just started, then Mr. Reira appeared on the blue TV screens with about one day's difference... And from the beginning there was one billion, then there were two billion, three, and I think there were four billion afterwards. That's... It's like... The money with which we entrepreneurs will help you. And then... Now we've been here for two months, in the Saeima, trying to break our hair and call you to some common sense, and tell us about those examples of how people are fighting for survival and some kind of benefits... about how we or... population numbers in capeicas. There's no money. It seems that, at first, it should have come out of it with a statement that we are a small, poor country, there's no money, and try to do something for yourself. It would be fair to see what is happening here in the Saeima for these two months. But then suddenly a charming statement from the government. At the moment, 286 million, I think airBaltic is being allocated. Well, so... Well, naturally, our constituents ask questions: “How and by whom do you share that money? And why 286, why not 100, why not 150?” And there's really nothing to answer. Nobody... I don't remember in any way that we would have re-allocated something into the existing budget, and somehow to me... I think that such amounts in relation to what we are doing here, their pornography in terms of support for entrepreneurs and people, should be considered necessary for someone to come to the Saeima to tell and inform. If instead I have to see Mrs. Viņķele fuck you on the screen, well, then quite clearly so (interface.) ... It is quite clear that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U95	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U96	Colleagues! It is about obsession that could mean not that some entrepreneurs want to sort out their industry, but that some politicians, perhaps not quite honest politicians, see such opportunities in the crisis. Because we see that the money of the so-called helicopter is good for a fair government. A person who does not have to try to figure out different schemes in some way and pay to those who want to pay something. In this case, it is not "helicopter money", but concrete money, which is very interesting to share only between individual politicians. In this case, of course, this proposal requires the Saeima to monitor what the government is doing during this crisis and how the government is spending this Christmas gift, which has just fallen from blue air and which will then have to be returned to everyone! – people who have now received a dance from the State Revenue Service, Mrs. Viņķele. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U97	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U98	In the previous crisis, we had Parex banka. There was a billion or so spent. And we know how it all ended. I am concerned that airBaltic has some similar story today, given their secrecy... where then almost 300 million are invested for this moment, especially at a time when airBaltic has released a large number of employees. And this solution could be very simple – to give up even one plane, from one leasing plane, so that you don't have to lay off workers for a time of crisis. Therefore, it is only logical that some clarification is needed. I understand that the coalition now has 51 votes. And I understand that this includes Mr. Eglitis, who is here to claim to be a huge economist, but in real life... in real time, Parliament is drawing closer to Sanda Riekstin's walks, and could at least stand up to debate and explain where these millions will be. I understand they won't go to Juszs' consulting firms or Juszs' wife's consulting firms, but to which firms and how do they go? How will the share capital ratio change, and where will it be spent? Well, such elementary things that wouldn't be hidden from society. Instead – what's going on here? Some ministers are showing their fingers, some Members are depicting each other, and they think who will be a bigger guilloche, but the ordinary people will immediately start to starve, Mr Eglitis, while you are laughing and laughing in front of me. Mr. Eglish! You should look at the lives of ordinary people!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U99	Debate, please, on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U100	I'm debating, Mrs. Moore! Stop interrupting me once! Listen to what I'm talking about! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U101	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U102	The allocation of funds and budgetary resources to both airBaltic, Riga Airport and “Latvian Air Traffic” raises more questions, and they are very complicated, in my opinion, because none of the descriptive commissions or any other commissions has received a detailed explanation of the economic and useable basis for such funding and precisely such amounts. Another case that causes a very suspicious attitude towards the granting of funding is the fact that, for example, additional funding from the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance was accepted and granted to Riga Airport only after the change of the manager of the airport. Consequently, suddenly the problem affected the previous manager, who was sufficiently competent and had a sufficiently serious certification career as well as an appropriate international role in the management of the airport. And only when she announced that she was leaving this post was the funding granted to the airport. Please support this proposal and do not allow the schemes to be squandered from the budget! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U103	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U104	(Sound rupture) ... rescue, help and be able to return to the market as quickly as possible after the crisis, and perhaps even to haste. But I am sorry to give 250 million without the decision of the Saeima, it is, in my opinion, easy to say, something very inadequate. This is not the only effective and important company in the country. If one day we will have something to help “Latvian veneer”, we will do the same? I'll just remind you: 250 million! That's exactly... approximately as much as the entire restaurant and accommodation industry paid taxes for two and a half years. In fact, what they paid in taxes for two and a half years... deserved. We have told them today that they will have to pay taxes so far. At the same time, we give 250 million by the other door, not just without a decision, but without knowing exactly what. You know, just remember this... like any government, this government will ever go away. Maybe very soon. You will all stay here and take responsibility not only for these decisions but for the fact that you did not even want to know and decide exactly to whom and why these funds are being transferred to airBaltic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U105	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U106	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that the coalition Members absolutely do not have anything to say. Nobody! There is absolutely no answer. I think they themselves are in absolute uncertainty about what their government has then decided in absolute secrecy. In order to be absolutely clear to everyone, this is the decision by the New Conservative Party on airBaltic's rescue plan of EUR 280 million, and the New Conservative Party is precisely the party that came for the money of airBaltic, but against any specific assistance, so to say, ordinary mortals in the tourism sector. That's exactly what it is. Well, please, colleagues in the New Conservative Party, say something, answer, defend your Minister Linkaita! Protect this decision – to grant it exactly the following aid. That's so big. Do you have anything to say? Can you say something? Can you do that?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U107	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U108	Colleagues. Please take a look at this proposal. It's... We are not against having to or should not support airBaltic. We really want to make sure that the amounts spent by it are in substance, and this is the best way to spend this money. What we want is parliamentary control. I call on the coalition Members to understand all of them, particularly those who stand for openness, the rule of law, and in particular those who stand behind this proposal. It is the New Conservative Party. Regardless of how we look, it is their minister who has led this into what we are talking about airBaltic. There are now a variety of opposition... We can call on the State Audit Office, then... whether they take or do not take into account... to audit or not to audit... We are already seeing the experience of what happens here when you look at what is happening in public administration. We can organise committees of inquiry... Call not to come. But we can get there. These amounts are large enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U109	Thank you. The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U110	Colleagues! Everyone knows that Germany is a prosperous country, right? And everyone also knows that Lufthansa is one of the German symbols in aviation. And then it seems that, in this situation, the German Government would have to make money for Lufthansa, without blinking the eye. But a few days ago, my former colleague, Mr Olaf Schulz, the German Minister for Finance, and also the leadership of the SPD, said that Lufthansa could not expect just a check. That yes, the German Government will support this airline, the German symbol, that it will be conditionally and under strict control of how these funds will be used. Germany knows what it is doing! And the German politicians also know that they can't break the money lightly, that it's not their money, it's their people, their taxpayers' money. They know that there must be a system of accountability. And that is exactly what we want to achieve with this proposal: the Saeima or the leaders of the people need to know what these investments will be, why and for what purpose.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U111	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U112	Here, in the Chamber, there is the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport from Mr. KNP Bhutan. Mr Bhutan will today prove that he only holds his office in this ministry because of his three thousand euros of salary and his driving compensation (EUR 40 per bus) he would not actually have to pay for anything. Today, Mr Bhutan, as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, should climb the platform and explain to the public where airBaltic will use 286 million. That is your most direct job, Mr. Butane! Return at least that bus compensation. Return and explain to the whole people of Latvia! This is your duty, Mr. Butane. Don't sit down and vote like a puppet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U113	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U114	The honourable opposition! I am addressing you right now. I know that negotiations are under way on the renewal of Article 81 of the Satversme in a state-of-the-art version. And it will give opportunities to the Cabinet of Ministers when the Saeima will not be able to decide different issues, to decide with the power of law different things. I understand that the Saeima then... Perhaps the Saeima will need to confirm these decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers afterwards, but, believe me, your votes will no longer be needed there. If you, the honourable opposition, agree with the coalition to open up this pandora charge, you will also be responsible for those decisions that the Saeima will not then be able to abolish, because the coalition will not need the votes of the opposition for a simple majority. Two thirds of your votes are needed only to vote these constitutional amendments. I would like to say to Mr Butan that, in principle, you have been given the opportunity to speak, not to read the messages that you have been there, I do not know, said. Even now, you have the opportunity to justify this decision in the debate in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U115	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U116	Yeah, thank you. I would like to turn to my coalition colleagues and also... in parallel with all those who listen to this debate. So I understand... I call on you to be aware of what is happening at the moment, what the substance of this proposal is. The essence of this proposal is whether we want parliamentary control over what is now happening or not. Whether or not we want to allow ourselves to go on as a potion at the moment. If you reject this proposal, then you are the ones who now declare that during the mayor of this feast it will be possible that there will be no control that they will be able to do what they want, millions will just be able to feel. And then the people will have to pay for all this. First of all, I contacted my colleagues here – the New Conservative Party. You came up with these instructions for courageous, wise, responsible action. If you do not support this now, then it will be essentially the same thing that OIC had for the Unity. You are now making your OIC. You will be participating now, probably a very large waste of money, in millions of afores for which you will be responsible. Then you will no longer be able to tell your constituents what purposes you have actually come here. So that I call for this proposal to be supported and for it to come up with responsibility for what is currently happening. Otherwise, what you are doing at the moment – you are holding a feast during the measurement. And in these feasts you shall participate, but all the rest of the company shall have to pay them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U117	Debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U118	This is the turning point now in your... in your political career. Think of what you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U119	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U120	On behalf of the Commission, I have informed you that 6. – the motion of a group of Members was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U121	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. – Member Reizniece–Ozola, Valaiņa, Vucana, Planta, Dombrovska, Liepiņa, Gobzema, Stepanenko, Smita, Svekova and Papule! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U122	The result of the vote on proposal 6: 33, 54 and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U123	Thank you. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Members Feldman, Butan, Ozola, Rancāns and Riekstins are asking to announce a 15-minute break. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! Let us vote for a 15-minute break! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U124	The result of the vote on the 15-minute break: for -70, against -6, abstaining -6.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U125	Decision adopted. Interruption until 3:50 a.m. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U126	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting. We shall continue work on the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19”. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member Martin Stein is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U127	So we stayed at 7. – a proposal from Members Švekova, Gobzema, Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Reizniece-Ozola and Papule. The proposal provides for the remaining funds in the national budget for the financing of political parties in 2020 to be allocated to unforeseen funds. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U128	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U129	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U130	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U131	Yeah, thank you. In 2019, during the discussion on the 2020 budget, the new conservative party applied to increase funding for the parties very quickly and even outside the planned time, even though the relevant previous programming document had a much longer period for discussion and also for calculation of additional funding for the parties. Unfortunately, in a crisis situation where thousands of people do not receive a cut-off allowance, when thousands of companies are on the brink of bankruptcy, when disadvantaged families are not supported further, and when public funding is wasted unwise, airBaltic and the respective “Riga Traffic”... not only “Riga Transport”, but also for Riga Airport and Air Transport Corporations, I think it would be right that the new conservative party would come in addition to the proposal and introduce a moratorium on the use of additional funding for advertising and expenditure and spending of political parties. I feel that citizens and voters also deserve to have their belts drawn from politicians and political forces on this issue. Consequently, the essence of my proposal is to introduce a moratorium and not to increase party funding until the economic situation in the country improves. For the calculations I took the assessment of economists and experts, in which the Latvian economy will be able to recover from the crisis in a year. Latvia's economy could only recover in 2022 – to reach the level of income in Latvia's state budget in 2019. Consequently, I believe that politicians and parties should also be held jointly responsible for this economic crisis and its consequences. Take their responsibility and reduce their appetite and their wishes, ensure a balanced defence of public interests and reduce their appetite, returning it to the level of funding for the 2019 parties. Thank you. Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U132	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U133	I wasn't on the list, but well. Funding for lots. I understand that the BIP will today vote 'no' and will want to keep funding for its party, because they have to take a Member Neighbours in their ranks in the near future. As we know, the Member's neighbor has to live in his mouth. He's got... difficult living conditions. It is therefore understandable why party funding is so important for the UKP, because they will have to feed the Member Kaimiņš, who could not come today to vote in favour of reducing VAT, even though last week as such a hero said he was already in favour of reducing VAT. Today he was scared. The courage of Mr. Kaimiņa has long been on his heels. So maybe... I will, of course, vote 'no' because I do not think that Member Neighbours is living out of his mouth, and I do not think that the parties need funding at the moment, and what I would call on the political organisations, all those who receive the funding, to give this funding at the moment to those groups of people to whom you have refused to give up, to the relief allowances, to the mothers crying that you... They don't have anything to feed their children. I call on you to just donate this money. At least one good thing in life. You don't have to keep Member Neighbours. Even though he himself will deal with his sponsors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U134	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U135	Dear colleagues, When you came up with an initiative to increase party funding by sevenfold, you also declared that the impact of sponsors would be reduced or eliminated at all. With the question of gambling business we saw that the influence of sponsors has not remained anywhere. It is right here, and only miraculously, Mr. Kariņš' intervention may have prevented the influence of these sponsors in some way. Therefore, we do not need to lie to ourselves, honourable colleagues, and we do not need to increase our funding at the expense of this either. You will also receive both funding and sponsor money, and you will only do what you are being asked to do. That is why we are calling for an opt-out from this increase by the end of 2022 and for these remaining funds to be eliminated... to allocate funds to unforeseen events. If someone goes against that we can't now predict something like that in this law... We also, very simply, amended the Labour Law in this draft law, saying that what is relevant in the Labour Law to the normal situation in this situation is inconceivable. And just like in this case, this... This different perception of the law on the financing of political organisations (parties) could also apply to this law on the prevention and management of threats and consequences of Covid-19. We call on you to support this proposal and to think that you really... You will not have enough money to try to convince those people you have rejected with your votes to take seriously you and your empty promises. You just won't have that money. You don't have to waste that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U136	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. ( Insight: “Speak to yourself! I'm talking to you! You're already... That money... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U137	This would probably be the time when Artus Neimins should obey. But what I wanted to say is... Well, it is absolutely clear that the coalition Members will not give up the funding of these parties and this funding of five million parties has become such an official feed from the state budget... Well, I'm sorry to admit. And relatively, let's say, today, the State Revenue Service has made public... In contrast to these five million parties, less than 25 million have been paid for this day's retirement grants. So, five times, so that five times less would be party funding that someone gets, I don't know how many were there – eight parties? How many of these eight parties, and how many active are, do not have any dead souls... Well, you know very well. For example, how many members of KPV LV could remain? After today, I think the excellent vote on reducing VAT, say, for restaurants and hotels, could still be some drop. It is equally clear that this funding from the parties is necessary to maintain such illogical votes or purchased votes for it... Either, with some position there, maybe in the parties or something else... That's... If you think it is not visible and that the line person does not understand it – well, very sorry. And another thing I want to say. It's a real, actual stop is already here. We are seeing this very well here in this Chamber, where UK Members are sitting dead. You can't even say anything. And you can't even defend any of the proposals or say something against, anything. Well, by the way five million a year – well, fantastic! It will continue until the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U138	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U139	Yes, the votes in Parliament confirm that Members who are in a coalition are puppets. UK Members are all puppets! They look at how Jurash will raise the red card and vote against children with disabilities and families with children... And three children's mothers, too... I will vote. Just like Yusz, I'll vote! And will keep quiet about the bribes, about half a million from various private banks and in such a spirit. This shows that party financing is not really working. Or Development/About! and gambling. It is absolutely clear that this is the case. Or Neighbours and Meroni. Everything proves that these party funding from the state budget does not work, that you are a puppet. You were, and you will be. More or less you give it money – there is no difference! Therefore, it would be more valuable for you to simply not give that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U140	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U141	In the Commission proposal 7 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U142	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. – An offer from Members Švekova, Gobzema, Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Reizniece-Ozola and Papule! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U143	The result of the vote on proposal 7: 17, 51, abstaining - is absent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U144	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U145	8 / 8 – An offer from Members Stepanenko, Gobzema, Liepāja, Smita, Švekova, Papules, Lochmeles–Lunovo, Dombrovska, Valaiņa, Reizniece–Ozola, Jalinska, Koite and Kučinska. Provision shall be made for an additional premium to the family state allowance of EUR 150. The Commission also heard representatives of the government who said that they were working on support measures in this area and that there are types of aid that have already been approved. In the Commission, the proposal 8 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U146	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U147	Yes, honourable colleagues, it must be concluded with regret that, behind all the Irish and all the other Christmas gifts, families that raise children with disabilities are going to the very last place. And they are the very last of which the government has begun to think and decide. It is very good that it was started to decide that this allowance could be monthly and that this allowance could amount to EUR 180. We saw this in the Social and Labour Commission during the discussion. But the last decision of the government – this one-time allowance of EUR 150 – is that, you know, it's the kind of ridicule that actually... Well, you know, we've done it, well, that's it! Leave us alone! It looks like it's about like that. Kids... Those families who raise children with disabilities are in the most vulnerable situation, both when parents have the opportunity to work from their home, but also to look after the child, as well as when the child is... The child had to return from the special school and the parents had great difficulties, as well as other situations in which the parents lost their jobs and were unable to find a way to live with the children, as well as in situations with special food for the children. In all situations these families were the last place in your mind. Now too, with EUR 150... You think that you will have solved it, a regrettable one-off allowance, but we urge the payment of the EUR 150 allowance every month from the start of the emergency until the end of the year when the situation has stabilised. We call on you to support our proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U148	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U149	Do you know why no support is granted to families with disabilities and not... The coalition is not committed to supporting it as a priority group? The answer is very simple: nothing can be stolen here, nothing can be schemed, no purchases can be made at increased prices, no one can put his or her close together, no party can be... Can't be from Development/About! Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, a Member who complains in the social networks, come with a jeep to the Saeima and ask for compensation of 163 euros, being a millionaire's spouse. These are only children with disabilities. They are not important in this country. And maybe that's why, Mr. Jušas, today, before you raise the red card, of the half million you and your wife got, you're going to marry at least one such family. Perhaps then your thoughts will change, Mr. Jušas, before you get the next half a million in another booth. Show that you are interested in something more than your personal well - being. Show that you are interested in children with disabilities and families with children at all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U150	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U151	Yes, honourable colleagues! I really call on the government to pay attention to this issue and to correct the mistakes that have been made, in my opinion last week, when deciding on this one-off allowance, to correct it to the monthly allowance. Because we had many parents who raised a child with disabilities, both those who took children back from special schools and those who fought when working from home and trying to look after the child. There is a problem that we have talked about several times. There is also a problem that parents could not afford this opportunity – to invite people home to help children, because man... A person from the edge, an analyte, could also accidentally infect a child with a Covid-19. Therefore, children were at the highest risk. A number of problems faced by these families were not heard or taken to the attention of the Saeima. We talked about it several times, we drew your attention, but you simply ignored our requests. It is good that this lump sum allowance has been accepted, but we are asking for it to be a monthly allowance.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U152	Thank you. The speaking time is over. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U153	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U154	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. – An offer from Members Stepanenko, Gobzema, Liepāja, Smita, Švekova, Papules, Lochmeles–Lunovo, Domrovska, Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Jalinska, Koite and Kučinska! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U155	The result of the vote on proposal 8: 32, 51 and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U156	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U157	9. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Lochmeles-Lunovo and Sveov. It provides for the right of local authorities to grant benefits in crisis situations. As the Ministry of Finance mentioned in the Commission, now municipalities are already... local authorities may grant various benefits without restriction. In the Commission, proposal 9 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U158	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U159	Hello, colleagues! We put forward this proposal with the aim of ensuring a minimum subsistence, money for life for those who have been refused an end-of-life allowance and who still do not receive it. Nature of the proposal: The municipality may grant to a family or a person in a crisis situation a benefit of not more than EUR 300 per month to one person, together with a death benefit or a death benefit. The specific situations are as follows: for example, a self-employed person, a certain person who wrote to me, Alīna, who worked in the tourism sector. The retirement allowance was refused. After the government had decided, however, to set the floor at EUR 180, she received, on Friday, 15 May, a payment of EUR 104 52 cents for March. She writes to me: “Please tell me about April when to wait? At the end of May or June?’ Nobody can answer. Imagine: Since 13 March, the only livelihood is this money – €104.52 received on 15 May. At the same time, she was denied the crisis benefit. What can be done for people who do not qualify for the EUR 104.52 opt-out? We are asking for this even lower than the minimum wage in the country. We are asking for this to be set twice as low as the World Bank has set it in terms of the minimum subsistence in our country, and not at the moment when inflation is in force, but a few years ago. We are asking for this opportunity to be set for people...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U160	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U161	Dear colleagues, Well, I don't want to talk spirit right now and present something... Arguments and so on. But ask yourself a question – do you really... you, what, sorry to give such people... allow municipalities to provide aid? It's not from your pocket, nor from the state pocket. Let us say, very recently even the State Audit Office has recognised that municipalities are much better oriented towards benefit policy than, for example, the State Revenue Service. You know, you know, it's the granting of benefits... The granting of the final benefit in the State Revenue Service has been, to put it mildly, not quite optimal. If it were to be optimal, you would not change all the laws and regulations regarding what they are allowed to issue and what is not allowed to issue, would you? And here in particular, colleagues, I now... I'm reading one piece of information here about one Member. I do not want to call his name, but here one of our colleagues admits that he must live in his mouth with the Saeima's remuneration, which is three thousand euros per hand. With three missing euro on hand. Well, my colleague, you're with the following texts... You really want to show people with this vote that you are sorry to help people... to provide local authorities with a benefit of EUR 300 per person? Well, put your conscience on, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U162	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U163	Yes, I would just like to remind you that the state's contribution to the benefits of the crisis is now EUR 40. EUR 40! You could imagine – the family... and how it could be spent... €40 for the purchase of food? Is it really the country... It is not a pity to your people to just EUR 40? And the crisis benefit is denied to people because local governments value people's income, value of people's property. They must imagine that at present, people really have time to sell their property, machines, and apartments to have something to eat. Please support EUR 300, where public investment could be slightly higher than the current EUR 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U164	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U165	In fact, this proposal should have been addressed not to me, but to the Member of the Neighbourhood. I really listened carefully to his last interview, in which he told the public that he had to live in his mouth every month with three or four thousand wages. And here we are talking about people to whom we plan not to give 300 euros. Member Neighbours, who lives from a hand in the mouth, could defend these people because he understands how it is – to live from a hand in the mouth. This proposal should have been addressed to Mr Bhutan with EUR 3 000 wages and EUR 40 in transport compensation. Mr Butan because he had solvency problems before being elected to Parliament. They were actually resolved in Parliament. And he should also defend the common people, but he does not. There are still a number of Members here who have not received salaries like those in Parliament before. And this is their greatest achievement in life. They should defend these people, whom you will once again refuse today. But the situation may change, honourable Members from the JCPOA, including and not exclusively, from the whole coalition. Your good times are coming to an end. You do not yet feel or understand this, but every such vote brings the end of your good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U166	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U167	Colleagues! I call for support for this proposal, because at least there is an opportunity for the Saeima to show that we are not taken away from reality, unlike those of colleagues in the government. Why am I saying that? I want to give you one small example. While we are breaking the slices now and, as my grandmother would say, we are crying for a tomblet flea to Riga, arguing about idle benefits, the government seems to have a completely different reality. And that's a small example – the Ministry of Finance has announced its application by 4 July to study the causes of the shadow economy in Latvia. At the moment when sleeves need to be secured and entrepreneurs supported, families need to be supported so that they can survive, the Ministry of Finance will investigate the causes of the shadow economy in Latvia by 251,000 and will do so for two years. This means that this government is not even going to do anything about it. They will study for two years, pay EUR 250 000 and, at the same time, tell them that families have to go with, I don't know, nothing there is the EUR 40 that the country has allocated. Well, Members of Parliament, at least, have the opportunity to show that we understand how people live, what they think, what their needs are, not only living in social networks or in some ministerial meetings, swiveling around their orbit and not seeing what is happening in reality.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U168	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U169	In the Commission, proposal 9 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U170	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Lochmeles-Lunova and Svelova! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U171	The result of the vote on proposal 9: 30, 52, abstaining.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U172	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U173	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Lochmeles-Lunovo and Sveov. It is envisaged to complement the draft law with a new article that it is prohibited for bailiffs to focus recovery on any form of benefit in 2020. During the meeting of the Commission, the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Sworn Judicial Officers of Latvia, which referred to a number of arguments against this proposal, were heard. There are still a number of mechanisms to protect the rights of debtors, but vulnerable beneficiaries of this proposal could be beneficiaries of maintenance. The Commission also stated that every person has the right to request the court to suspend enforcement if there are reasonable difficulties in executing the judgment. After hearing all the arguments, the panel decided not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U174	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U175	Yeah, well, my dear colleagues! I do not even know again why we need to explain and argue on this proposal. Well, it's as if there's an obvious thing... If people have hard times, they have actually lost their jobs. Here to us very recently, one of the coalition Members, Mr Zakatistov, spoke at all about a whole sector, a tourism sector that is supposedly under the responsibility of his political party, about a tourism sector which he says is... the turnover is zero for a period of two months. And Mr. Zakatistov has nothing in this regard... and his party has done nothing in this regard, except to judge whether to help with vouchers or reduced tax rates or something different. So this, I think colleagues, is an axiom. If we have such a crisis situation, an emergency situation if people lose their jobs, if they have no chance of finding a living if they are paid a benefit, then let the bailiffs collect something else from these benefits – well, it's absolutely wrong, out of morality. If anyone was concerned that it would have a negative impact on the recipients of alimides in some way, then it was possible for this proposal to be amended, partially supported, to submit a Commission proposal, but no such initiative was available from any of the coalition Members, colleagues. So I am calling for something to go back to my humanity, my fellow Members, to really remember how it was before you all became Members – some two years later this time will come back to most of you – and to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U176	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U177	Colleagues! Indeed, I am very sorry that on these screens around us, I cannot show you clearly. Today one gentleman sent a picture of what is from Latvijas Pasts, where he had left to withdraw the allowance of EUR 80 from the municipality of Vecpiebalga. When he went after this allowance (for several weeks it's the only money that this man and his family have to make), it's a great surprise... Well, how do you... It's a big surprise... You're probably not surprised because you're not surprised here anymore, looking at the faces of the tree here in the hall... But by keeping this story in mind, it can be seen that the amount of money for the execution of one order has been drawn out three times by 15 euros from these 80 euros from the sworn bailiffs and the State Revenue Service's collection. Well, that's terrible! We give it one hand, we reject EUR 80. On that background, that we... we are not even interested in where 250 million are left, which we will immediately hand in to airBaltic... The person has received 80 euros from the municipality, and on the same day he is taken off 45 euros of the State Revenue Service. Hey, seriously?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And you don't care. Come on, bravo!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U178	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U179	I will not agree with Mrs. Liepiņa that all members of the ruling coalition have wooden faces. At least one happy face we've just seen. It was Mr Stein, who finally had something to say from the coalition about why the opposition proposal was rejected. I would like to see Mr Stein face as happy when he has argued against other opposition proposals that have already been rejected and will still be rejected. But about the argumentation. You know, Mr Stein, yes, there were arguments against this proposal only because this is how we will discriminate against dependent children. Firstly, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission was able to draw up a Commission proposal by making an exception to this proposal for children in particular. Secondly, even this argument is absolutely inappropriate, because, for example, men who have to pay maintenance for their children from the previous marriage could also have other children in another family, and this family, the young and the children, could have exactly those missing 180 euros, which is the question of survival. What – we have better children, those who are entitled to income support, and other children who have to live with a drop-out allowance of €180 are worse? Do you even think what you're doing? Well, at least do something with your face!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U180	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U181	Colleagues, I will quote Arnis Kaktiņš: “The history is recurring, and if we have not understood what has happened in the past, we will inevitably get into the same problems, and it is very disastrous. Emigration was the biggest loss of the previous crisis and tragedy and can now be even more so." That's... On 7 May, Arnis Kakiņš said this and this proposal is directly linked to it. Because if we look at the problems of the previous crisis, it was precisely this approach to income of citizens from bailiffs and bank drivers, and so on, at the moment when a person is in the most difficult situation, he also forced a very large part of Latvian society to leave. It would be a huge disaster at the moment. At the time when Latvia opens its borders, and with our generous support, airBaltic Latvians are starting to drive away. This can be the consequence of which we can lead the whole Covid-19 success story and which is linked to this Covid-19 crisis. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support for such proposals and for the proposals made by those colleagues in their entirety. Because when a person goes hard and turns to a benefit because he's been expelled so far as he's already applying for a benefit, and at that time he's still hung up this benefit... Well, I'm sorry, that ticket is not expensive – 40-50 euros, and you're in Ireland or England, you can choose. So much of its benefit will be sufficient. Colleagues, think! And there's a lot, as Mr. Dūklavs says to me, who knows what's happening not only in Latvia, agriculture... there is a serious shortage of labour in these countries at present. Think about what we're doing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U182	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U183	During the debate on whether to withdraw benefits through bailiffs, the head of the Legal Commission and former teacher discuss some more important issues. And then, of course, I have a question in the direction of Mrs Muižniece. Mrs. Muižniece, if this work is so boring in the parliament, maybe it should have been (Interior: “May we?” ) stay in that school.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U184	Address the proposal. Please turn to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U185	But if you're in the parliament... Listen to me all the time. Listen to the end, don't stop in half-name!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U186	But start on the proposal, please talk.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U187	Listen to the end, Mrs. Mourniece!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U188	Start talking about the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U189	On the other hand, if you are in Parliament, then maybe you need to take care of how to support people who are granted little benefits! Therefore, I do not need to stop so that I can tell you that I need to support people who are granted a benefit. I understand that the neighbor is worried that he lives out of his mouth. A. Neighbours: “On the proposal! For the proposal!’ )... that he lives out of his hand in his mouth with his three or four thousand. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “The proposal is being discussed!” ) This is about small benefits you take away. And stop yelling, Neighbours, start saving. A. Neighbours: “Gobzem, watch your teeth! I'm serious to you! Guard your teeth!” ) if you are unable to live with your Member's salary! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Sorry! Watch out... ") In this particular case, I also call on you, Member of the Neighbourhood, to vote in favour of not taking away benefits for people, because you know the best way to live out of hand with four thousand per month. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Imagine – how it will be without teeth and by hand to live in your mouth!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U190	Colleagues! We (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) He's in the parliament. I remind my colleagues. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “... And a drug addict! And the drug addict!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U191	Dear colleagues, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “And the drug addict!” ) Mrs. Mūrniece! I beg you very much (Interest call.) ... Mrs Mūrniece, I very much ask you to really respect both the people and the other Members and to call on colleagues in the Saeima not to deal with side-effects while there is a debate. And I also call on Mr. Neighbouring not to present a threat to the physical execution of other Members. I hope that Mrs Murniece has also recorded this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U192	Please...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U193	And if we're talking... Mrs. Moore, thank you...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U194	Please start a debate on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U195	If we are talking about the proposal... Madam Moore, thank you for allowing me to talk...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U196	Please...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U197	... then we are talking about the fact that, if the government had actually fulfilled its responsibilities and helped the people, and had implemented all the idle benefits as they would have meant no one would fall through the bundle, then it is possible that the bailiffs could turn the bailout to benefits that are equal to wages, as they are doing at the moment. But in situations where one cannot receive an adequate amount of benefits, the other receives a refusal and some small lands... Then, in this case, I believe that we really need to introduce a moratorium on the recovery of debts, which applies to benefits in this particular case, because the government has failed to fulfil its obligations towards taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U198	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U199	Colleagues! This proposal contains one key word. This is the word ‘benefits’. The purpose of the proposal is to prevent recovery from taking any form of benefit. Well, and it is true for those Members who have already emphasised that if a person has once turned to a benefit, this means that he is in an extremely critical situation. It's one subject. Second. There are different policies. There is a preventive policy, it would be wiser that we, as politicians, are also able to predict and correct the consequences before the problems begin. But the other is a corrigendum. To a large extent, I think politicians also have to take responsibility for the mistakes that have been made, as a result of which a large part of Latvian society is currently in a situation where they have bailiffs on their neck. I will give you a few examples. The extremely irresponsible banking lending policy that was allowed... And still today... is still trying to find a solution to rid people of their debt. After 20 years, it is now finally understood that part of the loans that people cannot give up. Quick loans. Politicians, former Heads of Government, were waiting until 2015 for this fertilization to start at all. Meanwhile... How many families have already been thrown down! Gambling. Now with a big pump, we closed the game for a while in a crisis situation, while at the corner of every street we had a gaming hall grown up like mushrooms... More than churches and schools in Latvia. These are the consequences of people having bailiffs on their neck. And then you still want to take their money away in this situation when they're gone after the benefit. Now we're just a little responsible for what we've done in previous years!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U200	Thank you. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Please don't get provoked. Don't let yourself be provoked! The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U201	I would call on Members from the coalition... Explain what they said last week. The neighbour could explain how he promised last week how he would vote for VAT that he would reduce VAT. That's what he could... not to get out of the place. ( Dep. A. Neighbours: “On the proposal! Mrs. Moore!’ ), as he voted against the sports teachers, as Head of the Sports Sub-Commission. But the only thing they can do, because the vocabulary doesn't allow any more, is to get out of place and to express a void. That's the only one. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U202	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U203	Dear colleagues, do you know what's interesting? Seeing the year of fuel... For 10 years now, people who came to the Saeima, actually from the street, have become masters so quickly. She sees herself as gentlemen. Colleagues, it's not for long. If in the previous elections voters voted half of the Saeima, why do you think they will not do the same in the next elections? They will do the same again – they will vote out half of the Saeima. And then there's a karma for you (you know, there's a thing): when you're back in those streets, then I think you're probably going to meet someone who's been denied the benefits of this time... someone who received less than the same EUR 300. You may also meet people who have been recovered from their benefits, and they may be interested in: “How did you then vote in the Saeima on all these issues? Was that because of you?’ What will you answer? Think about it!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U204	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U205	I informed you that proposal 10 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U206	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Lochmeles-Lunova and Svelova! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U207	Since currently the law has already stated that the bailiffs cannot be recovered in any way...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U208	We're... Colleagues, we are voting! Ināra Mūrniece – against. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U209	So that's...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U210	Then there are motivations.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U211	So the law already states that the bailiff cannot take money from benefits... The neighbor shall vote against. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U212	Artus, we are voting. We are voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U213	Yeah, yeah, I told you, yeah. I also said why. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U214	"Pret" if? (The vote will continue.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U215	The result of the vote on proposal 10: 32, 49, abstaining - is absent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U216	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U217	11. - a proposal from Members Lochmele-Lunovo and Clementyev. It intends to supplement the draft law with a new article as follows: “In accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2020, foreign nationals whose family members are Latvian citizens (parents, children, adopted children, spouses) are entitled to enter Latvia. On arrival in Latvia from any country except Lithuania and Estonia, you have to go to self- isolation for 14 days.” It has been found that the proposal... In the Commission, we have found that the proposal is legally imprecise. In order to address this issue, the provision contained in the order for the declaration of an emergency referred to in point 4.18 concerning the admission, crossing of the border should be amended. In the Commission, the 11th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U218	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U219	Thank you for the opportunity to speak. This was the case when Mr. Stein said more than the other members of the committee and the head of the commission... at the commission meeting itself. Yeah... When I decided on my proposal, there was no debate at all. And I do not know where Mr Stein came from to say that my proposal is not legally correct. Because even the Legal Office was not given the opportunity to speak. And that is why the members of the Commission could not understand what is why it is necessary to reject an absolutely humanitarian proposal that will allow families to unite in the territory of Latvia, because it is only about spouses, parents, children and adopted children of Latvian citizens. And this norm has been taken against one of our neighbours, Lithuania, where this norm has been in force since the announcement of the emergency situation. A similar norm is in Poland, a similar norm is in Denmark... Not to mention other countries, such as Bulgaria, Romania! And so on. Let us take an example from Lithuania in this case, and let us adopt a law that will force the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up regulations that will allow our families to unite in the territory of the country without distinguishing families! Please support the absolutely humanitarian proposal! If necessary, correct it by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U220	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U221	In the Commission, the 11th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U222	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal tabled by Members Lochmeles-Lunovo and Clementyeva! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U223	The result of the vote on proposal 11: 28 against 55, abstaining, is not available.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U224	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U225	12. – the proposal of Members Švelova, Dombrovskis, Lochmeles-Luniv and Goldberga, which provides for exemption from taxation of employers' compensation up to 70 euros per month for expenses incurred in carrying out their duties at a distance. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U226	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U227	Dear colleagues, I am one of the applicants for this proposal, and I have now understood my "error"; I have understood why this proposal is unlikely to be supported. I mean, you... None of you are prepared to speak at all and explain why you generally do not support this or any other proposal. I now understand that everything about taxes... You are not, I understood, ready to cut any tax rate if it is not just about snuff and greedy. So, if I understand correctly, your position, the coalition, is that tax changes can only be possible with regard to strong alcohol. If I misunderstood something, then... Then give me a message, tell me something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U228	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U229	Yeah... The nature of the proposal is that companies operating during the start-up regime... and which remotely use employees... that it would be very good – to increase competitiveness and their support – to provide at least for these payments to the employees of the company who work at a distance. It would also provide an additional opportunity to pay for staff performing their duties from the home... cover utilities, partly electricity, internet services... The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. At the same time, it would also ensure the loyalty of the employee to the company, the quality of performance of work duties, and thus – competitiveness of the company itself. Therefore, in my view, it is also important that those companies that retain jobs that maintain economic activity in this crisis that are capable of adapting and carrying out... to provide your services or some kind of... management of these companies remotely... that they also have a tax advantage in respect of a small amount that could be paid in such a way that both the company's employees and the company's own employees are rewarded and supported. Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U230	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U231	It is quite clear that this proposal will not be supported, because, as you all understand, this is a proposal from the opposition! The part would certainly not support it, either, because they have not read at all what it is about. Those who have now read... Likely, a large proportion of those who read learned for the first time that such expenses were taxed. In essence, this is a very good proposal, which I also call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U232	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U233	I also call for support for this proposal. And at the same time, I call on Parliament to take a decision on ending the state of emergency! Latvia is known in the world press as a story of success, absolute success. And if the “failure” Estonia has ended up in an emergency, then I call for it to end in Latvia too, allowing people to work. You, the dear coalition, should not vote against the people of Latvia, against the people of Latvia, should not vote against the fact that... We offer in principle small money, apologies for vulgarity, people. And even that you reject. Therefore, there is no need for an emergency situation in Latvia at the moment. There is no parameter indicating that this would be necessary. It is currently in fact maintained for only two reasons: the first – the Riga City Council has been seized, and the second – it is procurement without competition and secretly awarded many millions... including airBaltic... actually almost 300 million... There are no other reasons for the state of emergency at present. Let's let people work, let them earn! Then the displeasure in society will be less... than... in the entire procedure by which you show the public here that you have power and that you vote... We vote against the people of Latvia in a consistent manner – in every sitting, in every vote. That's what you're doing every time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U234	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U235	Yeah... Colleagues, I am in favour of this proposal... I think it really... Well, many... Many say (and cannot disagree): the crisis is also, in a way, an opportunity. And it is also an opportunity for Latvia as a whole to grow its competitiveness in various ways – by introducing some advanced knowledge... And I think each of us now has started using tools that we used to use... He may have heard about them. And a lot will change! And this proposal will also change our daily lives in a way that will undoubtedly make Latvia more competitive. And this proposal, in my opinion, is not only for Covid-19 time, but... in the long term, if we want to take advantage of this situation to boost our competitiveness. That is why I would call for support. Very good proposal! And let's think about the development of our country – not only salvation, but development! Because otherwise it's just... Well, we're having such a fire... major fires. In addition, in certain cases... like airBaltic, for example, mentioned above... Well, the question is, is that waste water really... So much was to be poured out? So thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U236	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U237	In fact, of course, Members of the Saeima had to support the proposal, in the previous sitting, for all parents whose children are currently studying at a distance... would also compensate for the expenses incurred by families because they no longer have the opportunity to send their children to school and... so he takes off all his tools, spends electricity and so on... At the moment, you are not even being asked that these funds are somehow separated from the national budget. You are asked only one – to allow the entrepreneur to support his employees... their small amount from 70 euros... Well, if you don't support your parents, at least support your business! This is, after all, your favorite sport.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U238	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U239	I'll give you such a little example as this... on this tax... employer’s expenses in respect of staff... For example, if you were such a good employer and wanted to feed your employees with lunch free of charge, then it would not be free for you as an entrepreneur, because these supposedly free lunch countries would be taxed. Well, that's so that you can understand what this story is about. But this is about remote work. And if we're saying... so often we talk about the need for Latvian companies to become more effective, then that is what we really should think about for the mornings, as Mr. Valaiņš said. Because one of the... one such thing, efficiency could also be that employees would work remotely without this crisis. And it's absolutely logical that employees will have the expenses that... they will want to be covered by the employer. So it would be worth listening not only now, but also to Mondays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U240	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U241	In the Commission, proposal 12 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U242	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. – An offer from Members Švelova, Dombrovskis, Lochmeles-Lunovo and Goldberg! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U243	The result of the vote on proposal 12: 32, 51, abstaining is not available.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U244	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U245	13. – Member Pimenova's proposal. It provides for the addition of a new article to the draft law: “educational institutions established by municipalities that implement minority education programmes may, during the period of operation of this law, not apply the provisions of the legal framework for learning content in the state language.” In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U246	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U247	Thank you. Hello! I asked you to unite the two...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U248	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U249	Thank you. Members are well informed that the transition of general education of children belonging to minorities to studies in Latvian has started. Meanwhile, the parents of Russian - speaking children turn to their children to restore their children’s opportunity to learn, in an emergency situation, mainly in the family language. I would like to draw your attention to the position of those professionals who oppose distance learning as such. For example, in the LETA report of the Agency... As pointed out by the Latvian Language and Literature Teachers Association, teachers have observed that students do not know how to organize their time. The Association noted that the school usually hosts two thirds of the children's daily time, but at the moment this organization does not take place and everything is on the parents' shoulders. If, under the conditions of distance learning, adolescents find it difficult to concentrate on what is broadcast on the screen when the classes take place in the family language, then it is even more difficult if the classes take place in a language that they know poorly or do not know at all. And learning becomes extremely difficult, but sometimes even impossible. Parents say that such learning is critically reducing the motivation for learning, especially from Class 1 to Class 6. There's disgust at any learning. The strongest blow will be done this September for Class 1 students, because due to the emergency they were not given the opportunity to attend preparatory classes. And who can now have the right to make them learn a language other than their family language, including half of the content of the teaching? It is clear that remote learning is the price for the safety of our children from the plague and that this nightmare will end. But if it is possible to even partially relieve mental stress, it must be done. To sum up this, please review the education policy of minorities in the context of distance learning and, in an exceptional situation, provide minorities with the opportunity for pupils to learn their mother tongue. I propose adding a new article to the law. This version has just been read by Mr Stein, but I will repeat it again: “The municipal educational institutions implementing minority education programmes may, during the period of operation of this law, not be subject to the provisions of the legal framework for learning content in the state language.” I call on Members to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U250	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U251	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U252	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U253	The result of the vote on proposal 13: 19, 59, abstention: 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U254	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U255	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – the proposal of Members Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Liepiņa, Stepanenko and Gobzem, which intends to restore the facilities in public transport in Riga. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U256	Members... So they have applied for a debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U257	Colleagues! After the previous debate, when we talked about the abolition of driving charges in the city of Riga, the transformations really took place – some changes took place. But, in my opinion, that's not enough. You have to make it easy... re-establishing the incentives for fares. Just now, in this interval, I contacted representatives of a number of non-governmental organisations who consider themselves to be alike. It is interesting that representatives of political parties also believe that these incentives should be renewed. Unfortunately, however, it does not come to nothing. Therefore, in my view, with regard to these protective masks and other questions on how safety in public transport could be ensured... This should be considered as a priority, and these incentives should be restored. Yeah... We can see pictures of how public transport is moving. Well, I'm sorry, colleagues - these vehicles have been reloaded... padding already now... Reloaded in so-called peak hours! They are driven by seniors and young people – all together. What is the idea? Is this limitation that a person can only drive for his money changing something? In my view, it does not change anything; it has the most direct effect on people's wallets. So, in my view, these reliefs must be renewed. I call for support for both the proposals 14 and 17 that we have tabled. Together these proposals... All this will work much more successfully than at present, when seniors can drive, but only for their money. Because when they drive for their money – they are protected. But when the country pays them these trips, they are not protected. If you look at these pictures, how people move in public transport... When you leave the Saeima or come to work in the morning, look at public transport! I'm driving a bike, I see. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U258	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U259	This is also an example of how pensioners – pensioners of Riga – are not supported. And it's absolutely absurd! So if Riga pensioners drive for a fee, then everything is safe; if they drive for free, it is not safe. If the pensioner drives with ease in public transport outside Riga, then it is also safe. Only in Riga is it particularly dangerous if there are incentives for pensioners. Why is that? Because here too... for this coalition, and in particular Development/About! with Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Pūci! – it is more interested in how to illegally restrict the rights of people guaranteed by the Constitution. Interesting in various positions. For example, the “Riga House Manager” council will now be established. Now it's over! There have been calls for tenders; they will be able to place a salary of EUR 3200. It's interesting! As a member of the Pouce class, we probably have some... enough interest in Riga. For example, transfer a company to privatisation. It is already said in the society that some part of “Riga Forests” could be. And the same “Riga House Manager” should be returned to private hands. Sponsors... All this is of interest to these people! And we return to the fact that party funding has not helped; there are only sponsors, procurements, posts and everything else. And when we have to vote for pensioners to make it easier for pensioners to travel in public transport, then we cannot; then again there is no political will and the coalition must vote against pensioners for stability. That's the whole answer to that... And Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas will also vote 'no', just like all the previous votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U260	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U261	Dear colleagues, I will call on you to support the proposal. But, as I understand it, you are not interested in it, because there are all kinds of side discussions on the forehead. And Mrs. Mūrniece does not set up a procedure either. But if we're talking about driving discounts, then... not only pensioners, but also schoolchildren... I think it really is necessary to re-establish the categories provided for in the binding rules... these reliefs, yeah... We very much hope that the education of interests will also return soon. Children are thirsty for a variety of services both in sports schools and in art schools. And children would also have the right to drive free of charge – just as it was stipulated... And also for pensioners... We still don't really understand that logic... If there is an additional requirement for these facial masks for driving in public transport at present, then it must be understood that driving in public transport has become much safer. That's what you wanted. And if you've already raised this level of safety, then there would be no obstacle to allowing pensioners to use public transport free of charge – as has been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U262	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U263	Colleagues! If these fares are abolished as if for public safety reasons, then... That is absolutely a mistake! And you can make sure that... If, for example, Mrs. Viņķele had ever travelled by public transport and instead of (Interface.) ... Well, Mr. Yusch, you're talking so loud that I can't hear myself anymore. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) Oh you, Neighbours, shut up, please! Okay. So...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U264	Colleagues! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) I really... I remind you once again to all those in this Chamber: we are in Parliament. Please respect Parliament. ( The drug is noise. (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) Please continue the debate, Mrs Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U265	It just doesn't make sense to talk. So, then, the Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Dep. A. Gobzem: “Mr. Mūrniece!... “)... I can debate it further, can I debate it further?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U266	Please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U267	I can talk further, won't Yuszs talk further?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U268	Please continue the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Mr. Mūrniece! Are you going to put in order?’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U269	Why don't you put your room on order?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U270	Please continue the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “You will lead... will you introduce order in the hall?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U271	So, if these...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U272	Stop yelling! Please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U273	The fact that these reliefs have been abolished for security reasons is an absolute mistake! This can be verified by public transport. Instead of running a disco with raised fingers, Mrs. Viņķele should... Well, better, it would be better if his public transport... Either, even pensioners would be taught how to wear their face mask properly. But it would be even better for a coalition to find the real reason why these preferences have been abolished. Is it not a place for the ‘Harmonisation’ label to be put in place for municipal elections? Be honest with yourself – why have you removed these restrictions? Because it's not a story about security. It is absurd – to think that pensioners are travelling only to supermarkets or to the market. I urge you to stop deceiving and to name things in the right words.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U274	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U275	It is, of course, nice that some Members are willing to decide not only on national affairs, but also to intervene in the activities of each municipality (Interface.) and decide what municipality to do. But... In fact, when discussing the proposal, Members have not noticed that the Riga administration has already come with a statement last week that it will evaluate the possibility of returning... restore discounts for pensioners so that they can drive free of charge at certain times... within specified hours. In other words, this proposal is already under consideration... Last week... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And if it's possible... If the Riga administration, after assessing it, considers it necessary, reasonable and possible, then it will be implemented. Not members of the Saeima will now decide what municipality to do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U276	Name of Member Dana-Reizer-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U277	Yeah... I think another task force should be set up, which will assess the possibility of assessing the possibility. (Laughter) But now I'm going to keep the subject of what to do for the country, what to do for the municipality. I am also pleased that Mr Bhutan intervened in this debate, and I hope that he will also listen carefully, because the coalition colleagues have indeed argued in previous discussions that this is a need for more charges: because we are taking care of the safety of citizens. There, health aspects were taken as the basis. But here, in turn, I call for consistency and thought to be given to solutions for driving in other vehicles as well... modes of transport. In public transport, such as buses, we see that at least two metres of distance have been attempted (there are special stickers that somehow try to organize the flow of passengers)... We also see good examples: when people who live abroad return to Latvia through a port, there is a corresponding escort that takes them home, so that there is not much time to walk around and potentially infect others. But look at what happens to airBaltic flights! One example of practical experience when the compatriots recently returned to Riga with a return flight from Amsterdam: the plane was full, there was no possibility of two-metre distance travel, people were standing in queues to facilities, moving on each other, and there was no organization for the movement of people. As soon as the strap is opened, all the steeps push out of the plane. There they are given a form with reference to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are not available; also information about personal data protection (a hyperlink on paper has been printed) is not available. And after a person leaves the airport, he has another six hours – six hours! – time to get to your place of residence. And then... Imagine what you can do in those six hours, considering that even the temperature has not been measured and that no other safety measures have been taken! Then there must be consistency: then all vehicles take care of the safety of the population, health... preventive measures and do not excuse with care and practical support!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U278	Thank you, thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U279	Dear pensioners, to understand: we are now talking about discounts for you in Riga public transport! The candidate for Riga mayor's office, Jušas, does not care, he is simply wandering with the Members of Ozola during the period when the Riga pensioners have to be protected. Then, on television, Jurash will tell you how he defends you, like Mrs Le-Gallla and Mrs Mūrniece, who will vote against this vote (and be tested afterwards), a sweet tongue will tell you how the pensioners were joined in Riga! It is a reality of life – a duality in all possible ways. And it was best demonstrated by Jušas, who has absolutely no matter what happens in public transport in Riga. Although as a candidate for the mayor of Riga, he should debate and defend the poorest part of Riga's population, i.e. pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U280	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U281	Dear colleagues, From Mr. Butan we heard the phrase: let the municipality decide. And this was said by the Member who intervened in the most rough way... In a rather dubious way, the municipality intervened in the work of the municipality, releasing Riga's thought about the violations for which... At the moment we see that the new administration is beginning to create something similar. But if we are talking about the fact that this coalition is really not interested in the Rigas, then I would really ask Mrs Mūrniece to continue to draw attention to the fact that Members in the Chamber are doing side-by-side work and to invite them to negotiate where they do not interfere with other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U282	Then, colleagues, first of all, please follow what you are calling on others. (Applause) The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time. ( Insight: ‘ Do we disturb anyone? ’) ; “Why do we bother?” ; dep. A. Gobzem: “We’re on the phone, Mrs Mūrniece?” ) The name of Member Linda Liepiņš, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U283	Yes, Mr. Butane once again blows up his comments and does not use it again (Interface.) the ability to remain silent. And you should probably learn what the Saeima can and cannot decide about, especially during an emergency, and how the decision is different from the decision that is in some kind of decision process. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Can I ask you about the procedure?” ) Mr Butane, there are so many decisions that have been taken for decades in this country, but as far as you can't, it can't... But you're new: where then do you know how fast or how long different decisions are made in our country! And you don't have to pretend to be an idiot if you're not.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U284	Colleagues! I call on all those in this Chamber not to be provocative and to remain at peace. We are continuing the Saeima sitting. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U285	Yes, colleagues! Let us try to focus on the proposal. I am forced to respond to Mr Bhutan. The new conservative party, you decided that you were released, you decided that you were entering Development/About! people in the management of the City Council. You are now the most directly responsible – together with other coalition partners! – about what is happening in Riga City Council. No cities managed by the Greens/Farmers Union, in any of these municipalities, have abolished the driving tax incentives. None! All over Latvia, the only city in which driving tax relief has been abolished is Riga, for which you, Mr. Butane, have political responsibility, because you have released... and appointed... And now the only way... There is currently no municipal management. There is currently government-designated governance. And at the moment when the term of the elections was extended... At the moment, the Saeima must also take responsibility for what is happening there! I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U286	Thank you. Technical break for five minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U287	We're continuing the Saeima sitting. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Colleagues, I call for seats in the Chambers.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U288	I am asking to support the restoration of free driving for some categories of population, to provide social support for groups of citizens, to prevent discrimination against them, and I believe that Mr Bhutan's reference to the fact that it is not to interfere with the activities of the local government is very incorrect, because Mr Pūce himself, the Minister, intervenes very grossly ( recognised by the Constitutional Court) in the questionnaire of the population of Ikšķile, grossly violating the interests of citizens and limiting their right to speak. The Ministry of Transport itself has announced the purchase of salt between winter and autumn now, in the spring, even though under very suspicious and uncertain circumstances, it would ensure very high use of financial resources for unclear purchases. In my opinion, giving millions without special economic justification to a number of companies, suspicious procurements to the Ministry of Transport calls for a much more correct and supportive approach to the ordinary population, with the possibility of moving towards minimum living requirements. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal and not to plead with restrictions and false statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U289	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Budrik, Muižniece, Zālīte-Grosa, Riekstins and Kazinovskis ask for the Saeima to continue its sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! Let us vote for the sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U290	The result of the vote on the continuation of the sitting without interruption: for -74, against -4, abstaining -3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U291	Thank you. The sitting is continued without interruption. We are continuing the debate on proposal 14. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U292	The municipality of Riga currently has one unique municipality in Latvia, because its municipality is by nature no longer a municipality that provides self-government in its territory, which takes a decision that is in the interests of the inhabitants of this particular territory, because currently Riga is the external recipient of the ruling coalition, a forced external recipient. Because if the Riga administration were to act as a municipality, it would probably be like Daugavpils City Municipality, which first introduced the withdrawal of discounts for pensioners, and the first also returned all discounts. Because it is in constant contact with its citizens and understands what is needed at the moment and what would be good for the people of the city. The Riga Administration acts as a outsourcing provider for them because they do not want to listen to the fact that currently the fare of pensioners (their wallets) is intolerant, heavy burden. They listen... points out only that they listen to the epidemiologists, an argument that can be questioned. And I think any normal person agrees that everything is going on at the moment – it's a game "good and bad policeman", because administration is a bad policeman, and when Riga's extraordinary elections come, those good policemen who will promise that here will return you to its discounts. It will, it will, but just vote for us! It's a dirty political game. So please...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U293	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U294	I would like to thank Regina Ločmele-Lunova for mentioning Daugavpils, otherwise it seemed that Viktoras Valaiņš' words would remain valid, that there is no municipality outside Riga that would have decided to abolish the driving tax relief. How good you can find information on Daugavpils website, then already on 16 March Daugavpils decided to abolish all fare benefits completely – completely! – everyone, and Riga followed only the good example of Daugavpils. And then you have to ask these Members who are now proposing this proposal in Riga – where were they at the moment when these driving charges were abolished in Daugavpils? Why was there no proposal to renew these facilities? Correctly, because Daugavpils is headed by a representative of SASKAŅA, not by any other representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U295	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U296	From my kiss, Mr. Butan. Thank you. WHY to rule well, Daugavpils is an example. And please, we will follow the good examples of Daugavpils and remove all restrictions so that Riga pensioners can travel as before – free of charge!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U297	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U298	Mr. Butane! Be careful, please! Mr. Valaiņš mentioned the ZZS...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U299	Just a minute! We hear you very badly! Moderator and Technical Department...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U300	... as an example, not to mention Daugavpils. But with Riga, you need to understand, there's a special situation. In no other municipality has the administration of the municipality been dismissed and three officials have not been appointed who understand little from the work of the municipality. Why do I say that? A short time ago there was an interview at the Crosspoint, where the head of the administration could not answer any questions about the work of Riga Municipality. He answered everything that he had no information that he had not studied that he didn't know. In such a situation, if the administration does not know or cannot, or understands something completely cross-cutting, then the Saeima must come to the help and tell you what to do. In this case, it is not possible to remove the benefits for pensioners and that it has nothing to do with health care, and it has nothing to do with it... except that it is, indeed, Mrs Ločmel-Lunovo should agree, a dirty political game.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U301	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U302	In the Commission, this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U303	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. – An offer from Members Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Liepiņa, Stepanenko and Gobzem! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U304	The result of the vote on proposal 14: 33, 56 and abstaining is not available.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U305	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U306	15. The proposal submitted by Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Vucans, Dauge, Bergmanis, Augulis, Liepiņa, Gobzems, Stepanenko, Schmidt, Papule and Švecova provides for the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop and approve a targeted programme to support creative industries of at least €40 million. Now... This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U307	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U308	Thank you, colleagues. We look at the calendar – it is already 19 May. For more than two months, we are in an emergency and there is limited freedom of movement and of meeting, public measures are being denied, only gradually starting to open up and liberalise a little bit. And there are two sectors in this time, which have been extremely affected. It is a tourism sector and it is a sector of culture and the organisation of events. What the government has managed to do in these two months is today to give the tourism sector and Minister Wittenberg and Members a curator for reduced VAT, which would be targeted support for the sector, while a few days ago, the Minister of Culture, Mr Puntulis, sent home to correct mistakes. Let's see what the neighbouring countries do. I researched that Estonia, for example, already introduced crisis grants (also in regions) for individual artists in the cultural field at the end of March, where our government is still looking for criteria and cannot understand how to support individual artists who are not part of any creative organisation. Lithuania as a whole has already decided to grant 68,3 million aid to various measures, including infrastructure development measures. Latvia – for the time being, round for zero culture and awarded. Why is this bad? Because there is also an existing end-of-life benefit system... where very many beneficiaries of royalties, patent-payers, self-employed workers specific to the cultural sector do not receive any support or very little support from micro-enterprises. And we have presented our vision of both the amount of funding and the proposal for those actions that should be supported in the cultural field in order to finally make decisions. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U309	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U310	(Sound rupture) ... Indeed, the Ministry has developed a plan for continuity of national culture and has done so in cooperation with state and municipal capital companies, private producers, non-governmental organisations and the Latvian Creative Union Council, which is responsible for individual artists, who have been granted the status of a creative person within the framework of the law. The total amount of aid is approximately 30 million. The coalition of these national cultural continuity plans has conceptually supported it. This also includes these opposition proposals, which you see in the proposal. And now the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, is working on financial clarification so that the public can get this financial support, so that the support will be.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U311	The debate has not yet been closed. The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U312	Colleagues, I am glad that there will be support at all. But what you need to understand is that time matters. And you are now smashing it in political games, in the fight for competition and in the face of jealousy. Instead of supporting Mr Puntulis' proposal, you are making him correct his offer by shortening the support time and the amount of aid. I see for the first time, it seems to me that such an interesting phenomenon is that ideas are being smelled during the crisis. If, in the past, there were some political quotas or parliamentary quotas in the budgetary process, it now seems that there is a terrible jealousy for any political force, its ministers or any representative of the Saeima, who comes with some very necessary idea to support a particular sector. Then it seems to everyone that we also need at least something to have something to sell politically, or at least let us stand in front of our feet so that the aid is not so fast and so easy to grant. What you need to understand in this case – more than 11 thousand people in the cultural sector are therefore suffering.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U313	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U314	Two months, two meters, and... and now this word here “will” – it already sounds like a lion. It'll be! Go on the street and tell an entrepreneur or a representative of the creative industries "will". Promise the promise, but didn't. What does it mean to be? How long will you feed on it “will”? It just like two months ago – Reir came out and said “is”. Well, two months go by, we look at it, it's not. Well, it's not like we thought at the beginning. When Mr. Ritvars Janson says "will"... What's going to happen? Chick and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U315	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U316	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Culture was the first to begin, in fact, with this state of emergency, which proposed a solution to ensure that part-time support is also provided to the self-employed. The first such initiative came with support, followed by clarification of these measures. And yes, as Mr Jansons said, there is currently an active work in the Cabinet of Ministers to agree to convince and achieve broad support for very powerful (I would like to say on the background of the Baltic States) support events for Latvian cultural people. And in one sense, I completely agree with Dana Reizniece-Ozola: there is no room for political jealousy here, and I call for this to be taken into account by everyone, including the applicants of this proposal, because we all understand very well that it will be... It will be possible to provide support to cultural people if there is a broad understanding, broad agreement and support in the Cabinet. That's why it doesn't matter here... I fully agree: the sooner we get support, the better. We are doing our utmost to make it faster. We also call on the authors of this application to do... help us, to make it work faster, to address the Ministry of Finance, to address, to involve various public authorities, to address members of different parties, and I think we are close to the result. Unfortunately, the cultural sector may not remain without result in an effort to vote on each other. And I think if we were to be true towards ourselves, then the opposition representatives would also understand that very well. So thank you for raising this issue and showing that you are with us too, and I very much hope that we will achieve a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U317	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U318	I'm... combine time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U319	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U320	Soundly – said Raivis Dzintars. The only thing that the National Association has done is Imants Debtor has been placed in the position of adviser at Krišjānis Kariņš. The most powerful space for cultural decline in Latvia and Latvia has occurred at a time when the National Association has been in power, when the number of Latvians in Latvia has decreased. It's the only one that's powerful. It is also powerful that at the moment it is decided that there will now be councils at the Culture Academy and the Art Academy. So in Soviet times. New feeds. This is already being decided during the crisis. It's very powerful. The Soviet authorities will now decide what to do in culture, art and everywhere else. It probably is that for our constructions too, I allow, for sponsors, we say that we will now not help artists (knowing that we have fantastic artists, world famous artists)... We're not gonna help them... And we're going to get a bit of concrete again. One Member spoke about this earlier in Parliament, and now he has forgotten it. The only heating will be concrete, an empty concert hall... You'll build it now. The most genetic idea for heating culture is that you will now build a concert hall during the crisis! Who will go there – at that concert hall? All those who emigrate after this crisis, to whom this country, our country, will unfortunately no longer need? All those you didn't help? These? They're going there? No, no, no! Even now we have no overcrowded concert halls. But we have artists and cultural workers in relatively short numbers. We have the fastest depopulated area... In Latvia... The national association, and you say – powerful. What's cool Dzintar, what's powerful? Your wages? Yours personally and Mrs. Moore's salary? Is that powerful? A neighbor has no powerful salary; he is not enough; he has to live in his mouth. But you probably... But maybe you don't have to do anything about this, too... as State Revenue Service on 16 March, as I remember, said that there is no solution for patent payments, now there is 19 May – there is still no solution. When will you help? Since in 15 years, VAT is reduced? And you can't reduce it. When will you end lying? When will you help? On what date? Name the date when you will help people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U321	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U322	A little further comment. Well, I don't know about that money – there will be or there won't be, it's not up to us. One small recommendation perhaps to the National Association responsible for this cultural sector. In Estonia, two weeks ago, I think there was definitely a timetable for organizers of events and for all people working in the field of culture. Time schedule, like a calendar, let's say, from 1 June... which is authorised with effect from 1 July... And it's very important if, even before the end of the year, then... restrictions on measures, say, on the number of people, whether measures in the open air or in closed spaces. And these people need this information to know how to plan their business. This uncertainty about the future may be hurling those people who are active in these fields into despair at the moment, than perhaps that support that they do not know or that they will receive. So I ask you to think about it, too. And if you need an example from Estonia, I can send it to someone, as it looks in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U323	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U324	The Minister of Culture is, of course, a very sympathetic minister for us, but at the same time he is probably also a weak minister, because two months and one week have passed since the emergency situation in Latvia was declared, but the self-employed still do not receive even a minimum benefit, no end-of-life benefits and any support for patent payers are provided, as the Minister of Culture is doing so for two months and one week. Recently we read that here is a recipe found at the Ministry of Culture for strengthening the cultural field in Latvia. Here's the acoustic concert hall, which will be ready – when? After three, four, five years? How do we plan our future income for the cultural sector at the moment? What do you think it's going to be yours again? And is it really the support of the cultural sector, not the support of your favourite construction industry? Please be honest, but we, the opposition, will continue to strengthen you and strengthen the Ministry of Culture, too, so that they have the responsibility to account for the cultural workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U325	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U326	Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome the words of praise to Mr Dzintars. What he said can or does not agree with, but what left a very deep impression on me is that in this Saeima, Raivis Dzintars is actually the only one who is able to at least concisely justify, to argue in essence, to respond to the opposition and to express his opinion in general. And I think here, colleagues, that well, especially for parties like... who consider themselves, so to say, to be the most European, the wisest and... than everyone else... Well, if someone 10 years ago, for example, told me or someone else that 13. In the Saeima, the only Member who will be able to say something about his position and defend it in general throughout the Saeima will be Raivis Dzintars, well, I do not know how many people would believe in it. And what does that mean, colleagues? Well... How low, how low some have fallen if Raivis Dzintars... In fact, the national association has remained the only party capable of justifying its position. Think about this, my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U327	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U328	Yes, honourable colleagues, a few weeks ago, we, the opposition, put forward a proposal to allow art and, in particular, film to be enjoyed remotely while in the car, and we received a waiver. And again two weeks later, we see that this proposal has been taken into account. Well, this jealousy is really so great, so great, that you yourself like shooting in your foot and really all the good proposals we make, you're as far away as two weeks, well, actually... I think that people will not remember who was the promoter, and you really have nothing to worry about. But if we are talking about Mr Dzintara's recommendation that we try to ban ourselves to the finance minister and the working group, then I can tell you one interesting thing – the opposition is never invited to these working groups. Please note this! We are never called. What we can do is to make these proposals, which we are also doing very actively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U329	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U330	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues, such a funny feeling, of course, from THE WITNESSES to hear compliments, but let it stay. Well, in reality, the opposition is already doing its job and criticising and, seeing that something is going on, trying to put forward proposals more quickly, and that is all understandable. It is also understandable that the minister is being criticised, called weak and so on. Well, it would be risky if, for example, representatives of the industry, representative organisations of the industry said so, rather than saying it in opposition, but, for example, in commission meetings, where the Minister presented the work and the intention... then, however, we feel sufficient support for our Minister, as all these proposals are, however, developed in cooperation with the sectors. The 32 million plan concerns people. We are talking about support for creative persons, about public order, not about concrete.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U331	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U332	National Association! You know, your reasoning – it looks very amusing from the edge. Perhaps you don't see it yourself, it seems to you that you speak very meaningfully and very meaningfully, but from the edge it reminds of such comedys... I was reminded of a comedy film story that attempted to steal the behemoth, and to steal him, he had to be sprayed from the beginning. And then they didn't really do it after plan, because it turned out to be a sleeper. Then they said... First we should wake him up. For what? For the purpose of sleeping him. That's about what you're offering now. If you really care about the future of cultural workers, you care about their support and now you tell them how huge... all kinds of huge problems you have to deal with... Here's a good decision. You simply remain in favour, and this problem will be solved. Otherwise, you are now acting like these behemoth thieves. You tell one thing, but in reality you have some very different plan in your head, and as a result, cultural workers, for whom you have a responsibility to take care of what is your industry, are entrusted to you under your political supervision, just continue to suffer. And these are you who now pay Latvian culture and encourage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U333	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U334	In the Commission, proposal 15 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U335	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. – Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Vucana, Koite, Bergmana, Plant, Liepiņa, Gobzema, Stepanenko, Smita, Papule and Svekova! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U336	Result of the vote on proposal 15: - 30, 50, abstaining - 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U337	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U338	16. The proposal submitted by Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Vucans, Plantis, Dombrovskis, Liepiņa, Gobzems, Stepanenko, Smits, Švecova and Papule provides for the addition of transitional provisions to this law, by stating that the Cabinet of Ministers shall immediately suspend any activities related to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of 7 May 2020 on the contribution of EUR 250 million to airBaltic's share capital until a separate decision of the Saeima on the investment in question. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U339	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U340	Colleagues! We have already discussed the investment in airBaltic and the need to receive support from the Saeima for such a decision, also providing Members with the necessary information to convince about the need for investment, about the business plan and its seriousness, and about the benefits also for Latvian citizens, taxpayers. You know, it is that crisis situations are often also a good time for investment. And experienced entrepreneurs use it as a time of opportunity. I think that this is one of the factors that should be taken into account when assessing the planned investment also in airBaltic. For its part, the country has promised to invest 250 plus 36 million. And then there is the question that our partner does, because Latvia's country is not the only shareholder. The second shareholder is the Danish entrepreneur, Lars Tūsen, owned by AIRCRAFT LEASING 1, which currently holds almost 20 per cent of the shares, and it would be logical that he would also take risks and invest in proportional funding to save airBaltic. But he doesn't do it. The state of Latvia is the only investor, and our shares thus increase from 80.05 per cent to 91 per cent. We are the only ones who carry this financial burden. At the same time, the Minister also commented that it was not excluded that a private investor would be able to participate sometime in the future. Look at how this will end, if it is done with dry feet through, you could think about the investment, but at the moment you can see – the person who apparently has seen the business plan, unlike us, does not want to risk with his money.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U341	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U342	Dear colleagues, On 6 May 2020, representatives of airBaltic and the Ministry of Transport were heard at the meeting of the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission of the Saeima. Information was also requested from the Ministry of Transport on the reallocation of existing funding as well as requested and allocated state funding to its restaurant. Materials were received by the Commission and a total of 417 million were presented on two pages, despite a request for detailed information with limited availability. We can ask: is it normal to decide for 417 million, without knowing what its money will be for, and we know very well that this debt burden will fall on the taxpayer's shoulders. Do we not ask ourselves why we pay almost the full amount of this two-month cut-off of airBaltic's annual revenue in previous years? But I would like to draw attention to the fact that this sector has suffered and, of course, needs support. Therefore, when colleagues see this state of emergency, I call on the members of the CPV Group, members of other political groups and independent Members to submit a proposal to put an end to the emergency on 25 May this year. Thank you, and I call for support for this proposal, despite the fact that there are some clarifications and the wrong amount to be supported, which has been recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U343	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U344	Yes, honourable colleagues, when the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima considered granting families raising children with disabilities this additional allowance, of course (one of the options was a monthly allowance of a further EUR 180 at the time)... and, you see, one of the minuses mentioned at this first option was that it is too expensive and that this “too expensive” (it is two months for families) would cost 2.82 million. It's almost a hundred times less – a hundred times less!... One hundred times less than you are now blindly trying to throw airBaltic in. And as Mr. Girgen said – without giving proper justification and simply squandering this debt to the same families, to which you simply give nothing 150 euros once so that they simply do not disturb you with their problems. This is regrettable. Thank you to Mr. Girgen for your proposal. I think it really is time to put an end to using this state of emergency to steal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U345	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U346	Dear colleagues, I stress that this is not about aiding or not supporting a national airline in difficulty. But it is a question of whether it is acceptable, as the government does, to take a decision to invest more than EUR 280 million in the share capital of a private airline under conditions of absolute secrecy without, however, consulting the legislator without informing the legislator of the justification for any such decision. Is this acceptable? And the answer is that it is shouting, colleagues, and it is absolutely unacceptable. And if you (I don't know what the leader and initiator of all this was), the New Conservative Party... if you think this is your next example, well, that's... honest, smart and how it was... that it will go through without any questions from the public, then you are not at all smart, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U347	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U348	Yes, Mr Butan, you are still Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. And the question is still topical. You could, once and all this time, repay your salary – three thousand euros – and compensation of 40 euros for the bus and get up in the platform, and explain to Latvian society at least such elementary details. Or 285 million invested in airBaltic... This means that the private shareholder holding will be reduced or not? In particular, will the private shareholder actually be provided with millions? Number one. Number two. Explain – where exactly will the 285 million be invested? To explain this to the public – public interest, Mr. Butane, how you perform your duties. That's your job, you're a state official. And explain to the public, what will happen to 285 million and whether you will assume personal responsibility if these millions are stolen in an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U349	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U350	Yes, colleagues, I would not have signed this suggestion... or by reference to our signature, if we had, in the first cause of this day, supported the logical wish of Parliament (the wish of Members) to see in more detail, to whom exactly this amount of money is to be transferred. With our mask shopping... As an example of buying, I think it is only normal that we give our answers to ourselves and to the public in order not to create unnecessary stress. But I also have one rejoinder. All of this how we manage this crisis... I was minded by one another's reply to what Ivars Zariņš said about the behemoth, who sleeps and is then awakened to spray again. There, by the way, Ivar, is the logic of something else. This reminds me more... how we have been running the crisis for two months, another joke about behemoths, where one behemoth is sitting in a pile and running bubbles, running past the other and saying, “Hear, my friend, run to catch butterflies!” The other says: “Yes, I’m going to leave here and go get the butterflies... “ And that’s exactly what people who have suffered from the crisis, especially in the private sector, are just looking at how we put bubbles and grab butterflies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U351	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U352	In response to the various Members, let us say, discussions, I can say that... I can be sad – it is not me alone, or it is not a single minister, who makes a decision alone on the granting of funding to a capital company. To your knowledge, this is done by the entire government together, assessing the situation, analysing the benefits, disadvantages, risks and so on. That's on the one hand. On the other hand, if we look at what airBaltic gives Latvia. So last year the company is... the company has paid about 18 million in the state budget. Does the opposition, the Members who debated here, believe that these 18 million are not needed in the state budget? Are there any jobs provided by airBaltic needed? ( Interface: “They don’t already provide! ” ) Does not the contribution of airBaltic to business in Riga and Latvia be necessary? Well, if that is our opposition, then, unfortunately, in my opinion, there really is no room for debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U353	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U354	Dear colleagues, I think that Minister Linita should immediately dismiss his parliamentary secretary and accept someone else. Because, Mr. Butane, you have information... I don't know where you've spent all this time working as a parliamentary secretary. All the documentation for the government – for the government! – prepared by the Minister directly responsible from your party. Other ministers support or do not support this. But its primary responsibility still lies with the minister who has prepared the decision. And that's your minister, Mr. Butan. Go on. Regarding your argument... If we follow this very interesting logic, then it happens – what? Then can any amount be paid by taxpayers to keep one company? So why are those 285...? Maybe 500... for your logic? Then 500 million euros also – okay? Maybe... What is it? Billions maybe just to keep one... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U355	Thank you. The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U356	I would just like to remind you once again that the substance of the question is not whether airBaltic has to provide assistance or not, but how and where these funds will be channelled. And, John, you... I don't think you're having a debate... Your duty... Listen to the title: Parliamentary Secretary – a person who maintains a link between the government and the parliament. It is for you today, if the Minister has not been able to arrive, to be here (in a platform or in his place) and to explain – as detailed as in the interests of the country – who exactly this amount of money will go away. That's it!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U357	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U358	However, I would ask Mr Bhutan to answer a number of questions. Where will the relevant funds be invested? Number one. Number two. Will the share of the private owner, shareholder, in the company be reduced? If not, why? Third. Investing in equity means that these funds will then be used somewhere further. Where will they be used further? And finished. Mr. Butane, you should remember that Latvia's country has historically invested so much – so much! – that now start counting that something has been paid into the state budget is simply wrong. Therefore, society has the right to know where every benefit is spent. And you, as Parliamentary Secretary, have to give... It is your job, your duty – to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U359	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U360	Mr. Butane! If airBaltic were to work as well as full turnover, full capacity and a huge number of people now, this investment would have to be opened for more than 10 years. For more than 10 years, if the situation were as good as it was before the emergency! It would be your duty to tell you here what the plan is, how many years this investment will actually pay off. That's just one question. The second question. I remember – also in 2011... your party member Gatis Eglitis... At that time, I also wondered from the European Commission whether this investment would leave a negative impact on the government deficit balance. That is another question. I just mentioned two, but there are so many. You should professionally explain to the Members of the Saeima, not learn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U361	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U362	Yeah... Mr Butan's statement that the Ministry of Transport is not responsible for allocating such a large amount of funding to airBaltic is incomprehensible. And I think his statement that all the ministers are responsible looks more like I'm sorry, after an organised group covered, financially unfounded transaction... a budget-receiving transaction that is not in any way... Right now, too... not commented or explained. So that Mr. Butane in an organized group, with a whole-- other participants have accepted and... Don't know if... by supporting or even encouraging the commission of this crime – without sufficient economic justification! – more than 250 million taxpayers in a money transaction, which is difficult to trace. And another interesting thing that... and the recognition that today fell out at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. When the Bank of Latvia was also asked to give its opinion and comment on this investment – from budgetary resources! – in the company concerned, they replied very sensitively that it is not their competence and they refuse to comment on it. So I think it's obvious here... If the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport cannot comment on anything, and the Bank of Latvia also refuses to comment, then something is not good there – there is indeed an agreement in the organized group on the management of budgetary resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U363	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U364	Mr. Butane! When you listened to the discussion about airBaltic here and tried to reflect something on it here in the Chamber, depicting some knowledge about airBaltic, you, by the way, cried out: “Sorry like this!” I have a question: you have that boot... You named the boot Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, Minister of Transport Tolly Linkait? Are you a boot yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U365	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U366	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U367	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. – Proposal by Reiznieces–Ozola, Valaiņa, Vucana, Planta, Dombrovska, Liepiņa Gobzema, Stepanenko, Smita, Svekova and Papule! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U368	Result of the vote on proposal 16: 31, 44, abstaining - 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U369	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U370	And the final one is 17. – The offer of Members Valaiņa and Reizniece–Ozola, which is about free mouth and nose cover, provision of masks in Riga public transport. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U371	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U372	Colleagues! I would like to point out that I had applied for a debate on the previous issue before the debate was concluded and not on that issue. But... Well, then I'll use my time for this proposal, I'll explain... I'll tell you what I wanted to say. Mr. Butane! Does what you said prove (from your words!) that it was not the Ministry of Transport at all, who had prepared this proposal? Because you, as Parliamentary Secretary, were not at all in the course to push this proposal forward. I'm talking about airBaltic. That raises really serious questions... Interesting: how has this proposal been made in general? What we wanted to find out here in Parliament was a debate, not about helping airBaltic or not, but about what... What is the direct focus of this assistance? Who will ultimately benefit from this assistance – a company, this company or a separate shareholder? In the present case, there is indeed a question of this private shareholder. How does the private shareholder participate in the rescue of this company? Because he was attracted to this company just as a financial investor. Or will he contribute his share? That is one question. The second question that you should answer, however, as a parliamentary secretary, is what is the interest of this private shareholder in this company at the moment? Because, as we know, this contract gave him a guaranteed income – no matter how much the company is doing. Or... with regard to this emergency... I think it's the way he's still having these 6 percent... the guaranteed income will be guaranteed by his investment? And we're gonna pay it all now so he can get it? Was that not the real reason why you hide why you do not want the Saeima to vote in favour of this decision, so that the public could know to whom these millions are actually being directed? So, Mr Butan, I think you should do your job very seriously if you really want to do your job honestly, courageously and wisely. Otherwise... It is obvious that this is a large-scale sphere that you are trying to arrange under an emergency armband... in the shade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U373	I closed the debate. So on the 17th proposal, Members... The debate was no longer open. Are Members asking for a vote on proposal 17? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 17. – Proposal submitted by Members Valaiņa and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U374	The result of the vote on proposal 17: 30, 55, abstaining - is absent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U375	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U376	On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law "Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19" at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U377	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” (No. (688/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U378	The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendment to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” in the second, final reading: on – 73, against – 9, refraining – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U379	Thank you. The law is passed. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Jušaks, Cielēns, Feldmans, Riekstins, Budriks, Butāns, Gunna, Kazinovskis, Muizniece and Rancāns have submitted their own proposal – the draft decision on the construction of the new building of the State Security Service. Whether Members have objections (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Yes!” ) to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? So the objections are to Member Artus Neminis. ( Internouncing call.) No one can speak yet... after the procedure. So Members have reservations. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. One Member may speak in favour, one against and one against, as regards the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting. Mr. Pavilut, you'll talk... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U380	No, I would like to debate this subject, if it were dealt with.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U381	Thank you. So none of the Members wants to talk about or against. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft decision of the Saeima on construction of the new building of the State Security Service on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U382	Result of the vote: 47, 21, abstention: 8
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U383	Once again, Mr. Cole... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Say it again, Mr. Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U384	Result of the vote: 47, 21, abstention: 8
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-19-PT13-2079-U385	Thank you. The question is therefore on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. ( Interface: “On procedure! ”) ) There are no more procedural questions. The item is on the agenda for the next sitting. We have examined the agenda of the sitting. Time for notification. Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague Vita Anda Steela, and we welcome him. (Applause) Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
