ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! The emergency session started on 21 July 2020. On the agenda, reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? The Members in the debate have not applied. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. “ I have to vote, ” he said. Vote!’ ) Please vote! ( The sound is broken.) ... Transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 75, against and abstaining from –. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” presented by Members Viktors Valainis, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Regina Ločmele–Lunova, Evija Papale, Edgars Kucins, Vitalijs Orlovs, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Jūlija Stepanenko and Lubova Švecova, to hand over to the Commission for Budget and Finance (tax) establishing that it is a committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I would like to tell you about this draft law. This is not the first time that we have tabled this draft law, and I will remind you of the basic cases concerning this draft law. The draft law provides that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2021. At present, as survey data show, more than 400 thousand people at risk of poverty are at risk in Latvia, or 22.1 percent of the population, especially in the age group over 65. With regard to the situation that is getting worse (in our view, in relation to the restrictions imposed by the Covid-19 on the country!) It should be said that, in our view, it would be only normal and correct if the unlimited minimum were to be increased from the current EUR 3960 to EUR 6000 per year, as well as to introduce an optional minimum for all. Explain, in addition, the circumstances that have happened recently. Why, when comparing the competitiveness of the Baltic countries, do we see that we are far behind? If we want to help our entrepreneurs to compete and citizens pay competitive wages (in particular at this time!) This draft law should be supported and the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission should launch a debate on how to really implement this provision into life. At the moment, we see that this issue has risen in the government when it comes to drawing up the budget, and it is sad to hear that some deviation from it has also started... that, however, it might not be 500 euros... That is why, in our view, it would be right if this issue were not addressed in the government, but at the political level – in the Saeima, in the Saeima's Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Here we could also consider it and then include it in the budget law – so that the law really starts working with 2021. However, there is another very important point to mention in relation to this draft law. Why should this bill really be introduced this year? We see that the Ministry of Justice has now established rules on cadastral valuation, which, in essence, means an increase in the cadastral value of a whole range of real estate up to four times. I think that, with regard to the population in the outermost regions, maybe its impact... the increase in cadastral value may not be so pronounced, but in the central districts of the country, such as Riga, Pierīga, this increase will be inexpensive. And even though the municipalities have possibilities, of course... on the one hand, there are possibilities to grant these discounts... However, even if these discounts were granted, this payment would still be too high for a whole range of people in Latvia; they would not be able to pay it. And that is why it is in all our interests to raise money for citizens in some way, so that it stays on their hands, and this is one of the most effective instruments that can be done more quickly. Colleagues! I call for this bill to be passed on today to the Commission, and then to the Commission, already at Saeima level... Without waiting for the outcome of the government's discussions, we could talk about this at Saeima level and try to do everything from 2021... In our view, this framework must come into effect from 2021. I call for support for this draft law being passed on to the Commission because it has coincided... has coincided with several cases, the first of which is the restrictions imposed by Covid-19, the impact of Covid-19 on the economy. And this fact, which has already been widely expressed today, is 10 billion aid from the European Union... I think that this will not solve the problems of the ordinary population, which would have a very large aid of EUR 500. This really disproportionate increase in cadastral value... Also this question at the moment, I think every... Any resident living in apartment buildings, for example, is very concerned. And this bill would be the right one to improve this situation. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U3	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U4	Hello, colleagues! First of all, I must say that it is a great pleasure that the Union of Greens/Farmers has finally realised that this EUR 500... this indispensable minimum... that it is possible that this should be done and that it should be done. I remember, even at the end of 2018, before the Saeima elections, the then Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, also called us populists and in many other words – no, that's... that it is not lifting and that you don't have to do it... and so on. Now it's been a while – now, I'm looking at it, too, the ZZS has understood that this is to be done and done. Today, however, I will call for a vote against this initiative because, in parallel with us, the coalition is negotiating tax reform. We, the New Conservative Party, have clearly pointed out from our side that this inextricable minimum of EUR 500 is absolutely possible. That the unobstructed minimum is to be raised from 1 January, despite some of our coalition partners, well, such a lack of courage and, let us say, some form of suffocation. So now we have made it clear what our objectives are and let us wait for the outcome of these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U5	Thank you. Colleagues, we must vote in favour of this draft law being passed on to the Commission. Thus, the Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Valaiņa, Dombrovskis, Lochmeles-Lunov, Papules, Kucina, Orlova, Yalinsk, Dūklav, Stepanenko and Svekov's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. Please, let's vote! For – 29, against – 48, abstained – 2. Draft law has been rejected. The Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mrs Stepanenko, will you talk about it or about it? You will speak against. Please! The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U6	Dear colleagues, I would like to oppose the referral of this draft law to the Commission because, overall, I do not support this conceptually general idea of approving the guidelines, not in the Saeima, as we once had, but in the Cabinet of Ministers. My proposals, too, are 12 more. In the Saeima, as a miracle, it was stated that the guidelines should, however, be laid down in the Saeima. But, as we can see, this norm was amended in this Saeima, and now this proposal is to give very great powers to the Cabinet. We have given a great deal of powers to the Cabinet of Ministers lately, as we also see in the Covid-19 context, and I think it would be very unreasonable to give one of the most important areas of the country back now... determine the Cabinet of Ministers. We can see that still the Cabinet of Ministers (in particular – the Ministry of Education and Science) cannot – neither can it at present! – determine what will happen on 1 September. Both parents and teachers are unaware. I think we should not refer this question, which concerns a period of seven years, to the Cabinet of Ministers, who cannot really figure out how it will be, what parents, what children will do and how the learning process will take place in these exceptional circumstances. That's why I'm calling... I am 'no', and I call on my colleagues not to support the referral of this draft law to the Commission. And, of course, I will be in favour of returning the norm that the Saeima is setting these guidelines, not the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U7	Thank you. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. ( Pause) We can't hear you. There are technical problems – we can't hear you! ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U8	Hello, colleagues! Do you hear me? Yes, colleagues, the education guidelines are the same as the other... Only strategies in other ministries shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a common practice, and these guidelines have also been put to public consultation. I therefore also call on the Members concerned to submit their proposals. And they can certainly also be submitted through a public consultation. Similarly, the members of the Education, Culture and Science Commission are provided with a format in which they can engage in the education guidelines... Let us say that it is for proposals to be made and for them to be involved. So I call on you to talk to your colleagues and to definitely drive the initiatives that you will have, either through a public consultation or through an Education, Culture and Science Commission that has a say in the guidelines... Let's say, in the determination. I call for the draft law commission to be handed over and for options to be found on how we can adopt, examine and also include your proposals in the guidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U9	Thank you. Colleagues! Please vote in favour of handing over the draft laws of the Education, Culture and Science Commission “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For – 75, against – 4, refrains – not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Member Viktors Valainis has taken part in the debate. Are you going to talk about or against? Please! Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U10	I will talk about this draft law. ‘ For”! So, do you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U11	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U12	It's... is the situation... If you look at the way these amendments are made – how they have been made... Of course, there was a situation where some cafes... At least this feeling is that it has happened precisely because of these cases – maybe someone who has arrived, perhaps from abroad who has a temporary residence permit, has violated restrictions and has gone to visit public places and has thus created risks. And, of course, if you look at the context of the world, then we can see that in other countries too... that exactly from these, let's say, entertainment sites have formed or have come out of any new outbreaks – viral outbreaks. This law, of course, shows such a much more stringent approach, but I would have asked very much for the drafters of the law, which in this case is the Ministry of the Interior, to participate also in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... to involve in future work not only these ministries, but... in order to involve the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Ministry of Health... probably also the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, because it is these ministries that are responsible for the activities of Riga City Council. And at the time when... For example, Tallinn Street has a... When young people organize events here in Riga and violate any restrictions, they receive... For two weeks, they're closing the whole block. Of course, also administrative penalties, administrative matters... Very, very strict control. We are also here for administrative territorial reform... Right here, Saeima... Working remotely... Many were here... was also picketers at the Saeima... Colleagues, on the day I have information, four administrative irregularities... four cases were drawn up! And this, of course, shows how seriously we take this threat of disease. But why did I mention the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance? Perhaps they have simply not noticed that we have such restrictions. Because it's in Riga... Colleagues, as we all know, on Tērbata Street... Public sector – public sector! – he makes a party in the center of Riga and hopes that people will not come there, and thinks he will be able to limit... Even more – it seems that this event was definitely held, in our view... and these expenses should be added to the organizers of the event, which was the party association for Development/About! and... But in this case, the problem is that these ministries with these extensive restrictions... that this law applies to all others, but not to them themselves. So let's get more involved in the development of the draft law of the Ministry and hope that we really understand... and that they will understand what is happening on their own holding. In this case, the government has undertaken to lead the Riga City Council and is doing so by introducing the principle “You do so, but we will do what we want!” . That's not normal, colleagues. And this relatively important draft law clearly illustrates it. One cafe meets together and does not comply with regulations, strict requirements... The event takes place in the centre of Riga – we punish the organisers, we close everything hard. But while the public sector is organising an event at the same time, we pretend that as if everything were right, no one is guilty. Let's go. Right here at the Saeima... Remember the picket that was organised in the context of administrative territorial reform! Four administrative matters, colleagues, for not respecting two metres. You are probably also sitting in the halls right now, and perhaps one of you does not observe the distance of two metres at this point, too. Colleagues, I call on you to support this draft law and to think about what our public administration and our ministers are doing at this point and who are paying attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U14	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, society! I am against the fact that the government and the coalition should take responsibility – whatever - and be involved in preventing the spread of the Covid-19 infection; that they should take responsibility for their work. Why? Because, as we know, we are all equal in our country, but some are more equal. With some I mean Health Ministers Viņķelis, Development/About! which organizes a party on Tērbatas Street. And I also regard this coalition as more equal, which... While the pre-election campaign takes place, a party is held on Tērbatas Street, booklets are shared in the centre of the city... We continue our remote vebinar activities in the e-Saami, as if here in the Saeima, there would be a hugely greater danger than in Tērbatas Street. We see all these folly at the airport as well. Our politicalists who fly, I think, know very well that at the airport when the planes arrive... We have a list of countries that have to comply with quarantine, which do not need quarantine. When people get out of the planes – both those who have to comply with quarantine and self-insulation and those who do not – they all go collectively, compressingly along the airport corridor at the same time to pass border control and customs controls and to move towards the city. One on the Tērbatas Street and one on the other to comply with the quarantine. All this is absurd! I am, of course, in favour of helping our entrepreneurs. I am, of course, in favour of helping our hotel, restaurant owners. And, of course, I am against all the absurdities that the Latvian society sees more and more every day. It is also absurd that we, the ordinary people, are equal, but you, the authorities, are more equal. That is why I am also opposed to such a document, because it is absolutely clear that to demand responsibility from the government and to claim responsibility from each ministry, so that it becomes involved and takes concrete responsibility for any of its work, for any procurement that it has made, for any decision made and for any administrative penalty imposed on ordinary people, but not imposed on officials of Riga City Council. These more equal people... they do not need any additional responsibility, in my opinion. That would be fair, because then we would see that... then it would be exactly how it actually happens in Latvia as well. And another interesting thing. One of my supporters, my constituents, wrote a very interesting thesis. In particular, he wrote this thesis – that after the Tērbata Street party we should wait two weeks, and if we had a huge Covid-19 outbreak, then it would be absolutely clear that the organizers of this party should be called to criminal justice. If, on the other hand, we had no outbreak, then definitely we would have to resign from office as a minimum for Health Minister Viņķelis and as a maximum (at best!) Mr. Kariņš, because all this Covid-19 farce, all these speeches about a pandemic that has not been in Latvia and has never been in the history of Latvia's millenniums, should be ended. I therefore call on my colleagues to vote 'no' because everyone is equal, but some are more equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No. 83, no. 1, no. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The agenda has been examined, as you understand. We're going to the second meeting. I will now ask for registration. Registration has been successfully completed. And the name to Member Juris Rancāns – for a statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U16	Hello, colleagues! Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption: 10 minutes after the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2105-U17	Thank you, colleagues.
