ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2144-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to review the agenda of the third remote emergency session of the Saeima on 19 November 2020. First of all, reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. ‘ Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust of officials’. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2144-U2	Good evening, colleagues! I would call on Juris Pūci not to approve in any commission and would urge him to treat Juris Pūci as if he were not a member of the Saeima, given that he has admitted, he has lied and not just lied. This person has, in principle, cheated on taxpayers' money by climaxing passes, car passes, apparently for the needs of his wife, who is probably also a state official, and lies were caught – not voluntarily confessed, but were caught! – at the moment when I realized that this pass was apparently registered for a particular car with a particular number and was also in the window of this car belonging to the Puču family, and was forced to do so, although before that it was devout that it was not. And in fact, I do not understand how, in these circumstances, a person who cannot be a minister (because he has lied to the public, journalists – to all!) , may be a member of the Saeima. Now, actually, from this day on, we will legalise the situation that the Saeima Members can lie calmly. All right, they can't be ministers, maybe, but they can be members of the Saeima. Well, members of the Saeima are not given any passes in the center of Riga; there is only what is near the Saeima. There may be a little bit of fuel costs or housing compensation. There's no more where. But the approval of Juris Puce in any position in Parliament is degraded by this institution, degrades the attitude of society, which is already critically low in relation to Parliament. And in fact, it becomes a basic criterion for this post, the post of Member of the Saeima. And in future we will not know in all the speeches, in all the applications that Juris Puce will do as a Member, whether he is joking or lying, at which point he must believe and not believe. And I'd call Juris Pucis, who is my classmate, to understand and understand that, Juris, you're not... Your nature and this case with a pass, which on the one hand is nothing, but on the other hand it shows that you are not worthy of an official. Your way of thinking is not worthy of the Minister. And your way of thinking is not worthy of Saeima. What you have done is not doing it to those who are worthy of high state positions. And that's why I call you, Juris Pūce, to set up the parliamentary parliamentary mandate, because every time you climb into the parliamentary tribunal, every time you have the opportunity, you will be reminded of this issue. Always. Everywhere. Anything you're gonna do. Your resignation from the position of Minister to the position of Member of the Saeima is neither a male act nor a political person who deserves respect and who has a place in Latvian politics. Therefore, I repeat – Juri Pūce, in order not to degrade Parliament, I invite you to set aside the mandate of the Saeima Member and never return to politics during your life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2144-U3	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2144-U4	Colleagues! I will also join my colleague in saying that the Saeima should not become such a greedless reserve, no matter what society as a whole thinks about today's government and legislative power. However, the last bright walk with Juris Pūce's return to the Saeima after the entire Latvian nation could be watched and observed again on November 11, and the Minister Juris Pūce lies in the Latvian public media – lies, looking at the whole Latvian nation... Most of all, of course, this whole story... Most of all, of course, it is also interesting that, it turns out, the transfer of Riga City Council made for taxpayers' money is just such an object of revolt, such a game as Juris Puce told us on November 11. It turns out, when Members get these passes, they just play with them. Juris Pūce received a new pass today – at the Saeima. Interesting how Juris Pūce promised this pass or how Juris Pūce played with this pass and laughed today. I also believe that Juris Pucem should not take part in the work of the Saeima, but rather set up a mandate and go out of politics. Because what we will hear from Juris Pūce in the coming days, days, weeks, months is likely to be a joke, most likely they will be current lies, uprisings, games. Because we will never know when Juris Puce is not lying and when Juris Puce is lying. More interesting in this whole story is that Juris Pūce has also been chosen to work in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, which, of course, is very relevant to the work of Juris Pūce, taking into account the latest episodes. Such a person should not remain a member of the Saeima, because Juris Pūce's return to the Saeima after a shameful resignation from the minister's office confirms that Juris Pūce believes that such return to the Saeima is absolutely normal, that he has been punished once by resignation from the ministerial chair, and that he will simply be able to spend the rest of his term of office at the time when the Saeima's Member's seat sits, and even his colleagues will have provided him with some commission. And we're not gonna be surprised about it, because you're all like that. And in this situation Juris Pūce really clearly demonstrates that the prestige of the Saeima can be as low as Juris Pūce's reputation. He compares his reputation to that of the legislator, because that means that the Saeima can... people who lie openly in the eyes of the whole society can work; people who play with the benefits of taxpayers can work in the Saeima and who believe that, after everything that society has seen, they can continue working in the Saeima, they can continue to live at the expense of taxpayers and possibly continue lying. I call on Juris Pucis to set up a mandate. This will be the first time, most likely, that I will vote against the election of a Member to the Commission, because I believe that Juris Pūcem has no place among the Members of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2144-U5	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2144-U6	I call on colleagues who have signed this application – Arthur Toms Plēks, Vitas Andes Steels, Mārtiņš Bondars, Inese Voika, Dace Rūksāns – Ščipčinskas, Daniels Pavluta, Inese Iksten, Andris Skridi and Mārtiņš Šeins, in particular the group leader Daniels Pavluta, who publicly states that Juris Pūce has no place in the minister's office, to put an end to the dubiousness and to say that Juris Pūce also has no place in the parliamentary office. Otherwise, your previous public PR texts do not withstand any criticism; they do not have any coverage. And, in fact, you support, with your signatures, the fact that a Member of the Saeima can be a liar, a pass-through thumbnails and in such a spirit. I call on these Members not to undermine the prestige of the Saeima in the future. It is nothing that you are from a single group, but if you vote and do not cancel your signatures, you are exactly the same as Juris Puce. You're nothing different! So you cover a person who, in the eyes of the public, lied, and you let such a person be a member of your political group. You will vote for him, you have even signed an application to be elected by the commissions. And, in essence, it is a sign of all “development/for!” group that basically all these people who are in this group, if they do so, are exactly the same as Juris Pūce. I call for the 'no' vote. And I repeat – Juris Pūce, your walk shows that your human and personal qualities prove that you are not worthy to be a state official, that you are not worthy to be a member of the Saeima or a minister. This is not the case for those who want to be in high positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2144-U7	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Election of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government”! Please, let's vote! For – 46, against – 2, abstain – 1. There is no quorum in the vote. ( The sound is broken.) ... there is no quorum. I call on those Members who are in the e-system to make their own choices and to fulfil their duties as Members, i.e. to vote. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Election of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government”! Please, let's vote! For – 45, against – 1, refrains – not. There's no quorum. So, colleagues, we have voted on this issue twice – there is no quorum. There's a proposal... It is proposed to declare this sitting adjourned by 26 November this year and to return to this issue at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 26 November this year. We therefore need to vote on this. Please see the procedure section. We will vote for a break to be announced by the Saeima at its third extraordinary session of 19 November 2020 until 26 November this year! Please, let's vote! There are no votes for – 65, against – 5, abstaining. So the decision has been made. Interruption until 26 November of this year. There's also a record of Members. It's been a success. Thank you all for your work today. ( Interruption)
