ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We will continue to take stock of the agenda for the meeting on 30 January this year. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Members Paviluts, Golubeva, Ples, Steel and Rukšāne-Ščipčinska are asking to exclude from the agenda of the sitting the draft law "Amendment to the General Education Law". Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) Mr Bondara, will you talk about it? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondar: “No, no, I’m on the sugar!” (Laughter) You have applied to speak “for”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondar: “I am not... So it’s all! Thank you. So Members do not want to talk about it. Do Members object to the exclusion of the draft law from the agenda of the sitting? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: "What are we going to do today?" ) There are no objections. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. We are continuing the debate on proposal 4. Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U2	Good morning, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima. High honourable Members! I would like to remind you a little bit of the substance of this proposal, which was already at the sitting of the previous Saeima, to look at the proposal that had been initiated. The proposal covers all sweetened drinks: those with a sugar level above 8 grams are subject to higher excise duty and those with a sugar level below 8 grams. So, basically, this proposal is not about prohibiting anyone from doing something; it is about promoting a healthier lifestyle. One of the basic things about unhealthy lifestyles is bad eating habits and too much sugar consumption. In fact, all countries are struggling with this problem. All developed countries are struggling with obesity, and also in Latvia it is a particularly topical problem, and... At an early age, at an early age, at an early age. And that is why we prepared this proposal. And first... What could this proposal do? First of all, it could reduce sugar... the total daily sugar intake. Yeah... there is no particular need to prove what the situation in Latvia is; worldwide research shows that increasing the prices of sweetened drinks through excise duty will reduce the consumption of sweetened drinks and thus reduce the total daily sugar intake. That would be one question. The other thing. I would like to emphasise once again that these amendments apply to all sweetened drinks. The previous speakers at last sitting stressed that this was particularly... that Latvian producers will suffer, but this is not true. And the statement that, for example, the drink Coca-Cola has long since ceased to contain sugar (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) And it's not true. You can each enter even the website of these manufacturers and look at them. Coca-Cola contains 13 grams of sugar per 100 millilitres - well above our 8 grams limit. And it is possible that such statements made from the parliamentary tribunal - that Coca-Cola has long been sugar-free - are, in fact, hidden advertising for this brand. Because, of course, every citizen is aware that sugar is, in fact, harmful to health if it is used too much and should actually be taken less. It is therefore absolutely wrong to think that this drink, which is produced worldwide, - Coca-Cola - does not contain sugar. Yes, there are certain types of this drink, which may contain sweeteners and do not contain sugar, but, in general, it is not true. Then another thing. I would like to say that another significant effect... think drinkers about how to produce drinks with a lower sugar content. Latvian producers have also started to work very seriously on this, and we already appear on the market and also drinks with a lower sugar content in shops shelves, so less sweet drinks. This does not mean that sugar manufacturers replace sugar with sweeteners, because a person is used to a certain degree of sweetness. And he can also find it from a certain degree of sweetness. That is what we all know: those who, for example, may no longer take coffee with sugar (Dep. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) - that, in principle, exactly the same... If you gradually start to have less sugar for tea or coffee, you just don't want it anymore. The same applies to these drinks that we can buy in stores. That's why I think it's going to be... It is a good proposal for our common health. That is why I would ask my fellow Members to really support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U3	Name of Member Regina Lochmelei-Lunovo. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “I will ask you to unite the times.” ) Are there objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U4	Good morning, colleagues! All due respect for the Development/Par! Group. on the proposal, but I will argue on whether the aim of health - care for our children and the rest of our adults - in this case will be achieved precisely by this means. First. We heard here that sugar can lead our children to obesity. Other senior public health analysts of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre Iveta Pudulis. She admits that in Western Europe, children who are copulated are in low income families, because feeding meals are cheaper than healthy ones, but in Latvia such a problem is in families with good income, because they are able to treat children more with calories-rich dishes. That's the first. Second. If we talk about the fact that it is sugar that leads to obesity in children, I will have to say that consumption of fats and trans-fat acids also leads to the same effect. Fast carbohydrates. So I... I am waiting for the proposal to be put on a excise duty (or even better to ban) cakes, candies, cakes. Let's also ban McDonald's in Latvia, because virtually all the dishes that are there lead to excess weight... could lead. Of course, the whole question is how proportional we eat it or other products. Currently, a weight correction programme is in place at the Children’s Clinical University Hospital. And I think it would be very good if “development/for!” which is responsible for health in this government, to make sure that lines are reduced to this programme. Because at the moment, we have to wait three or four months in this line. I look forward to “Development/About!” submit a proposal to each child in Latvia with diabetes mellitus to have an insulin pump immediately as this diagnosis is installed. In Sweden, such an insulin pump is given to each type of person with diabetes mellitus, both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. I look forward to “Development/About!” submit a proposal to at least reduce, if not eliminate, VAT on diabetic products, food. You could look at any store as much as you pay for products to be consumed by people with diabetes. And I'll ask you to study the shelves of our stores, which consist of the products we eat every day. There is almost no sugar-free product (the exception may be fresh meat, fish). All bread - all bread made in Latvia! - contains sugar. All, including bread! You could study it and see it. And the most important thing. On the means by which we want to achieve noble goals. Even if you raise (up to what percentage) this excise duty today, the consumer, the ordinary person, will not know about it. Yeah... For example, this is a juice that my youngest son drinks every day (Shows “Cido” grape juice package.) ... I've been looking for a long time yesterday to figure out how much sugar there is here. But there's sugar here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “More than cola!” ) Also in juice. But neither bottles nor juice containers show any sugar content per litre. You can raise as much as you want. People will not know about it. Find it! Find it! You could come to the store and help people to count how much sugar there is. ( Intersages: “There is written in Latvian! ” ; “Show it a package!” ) So you should do... Indeed, care for people’s health, not about what people will never understand!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U5	The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U6	Good morning, present! I would like to see our colleague Mr Skride's proposal from two perspectives. Both are worth considering, but I believe that one is more weightful than the other. You will agree that there is nothing more important for a person than health, since a healthy body has a healthy spirit. We can also reword: a healthy person - a happy person. Everything shows that a healthy way of life is a long way of life. Healthy food certainly reduces the need for medicines and improves the quality of life. Undoubtedly, one perspective is health. But let's see more! There are other wisdom in life. And one of them is that a fed man is a happy man. Any reasonable person will agree to this. And to have the food he needs? That's right! It is necessary to work and realise, in other words, to have a job. The work to be carried out in order to improve will create values and, in the end, to get paid for what has been done. So if you have the opportunity to provide yourself with the necessary means of living, you will also have the opportunity to choose healthier food. We shouldn't think so narrow! This means that we should not support the sector-specific proposal by Mr Skrides - even if the initial wish is so noble. Disproportionate and unnegotiated proposals seem, at first, to save the world, but they are of long-term concern. The concerns that all of us will have to answer. Therefore, I call not to support the disproportionate increase in excise duty on sweetened drinks, but rather to support the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture, which envisages a proportionate increase in excise duty. And I would like to thank the industry, which was able to negotiate with the Ministry of Agriculture on a solution that benefits all the parties involved. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U7	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U8	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! Last century Kārlis Ulmanis said that three spoons of sugar were needed at the tea: one - about Jēkabpils, one - about Jelgava, and one - about Liepaja. The time has come to think, not about capital, not about sugar factories, but about people. And that means it (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “It’s not... “) that’s sugar consumption (Dep. I. Zariņš’ intermediate call.) ... sugar consumption should be reduced. It should be reduced because, otherwise, Andris Flyre will have to say: “Let’s add a little bit. A. Gobzem: “But what do you think he supports?” ) excise duty on Stradins Hospital and Gailezer Hospital!” Otherwise, otherwise! - its costs are, at present, higher than those of sugar consumption. Colleagues! I just want to say one thing to the food industry. Whatever happens today, you will vote in favour of proposal 4, you will vote in favour of proposal 5, you will leave what is in second reading... Friends! While Andris Skride and his political power and his colleagues will be in this Saeima, the unhealthy food - the food that kills... trying to kill people. — Dep. R. Ločmele-Lunova: “Excise candy!” ) - excise duties will be increased. All the sick will be increased in excise duty! Take this into account. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Mārtiņš, how about the snuff?” ) Another... Colleagues! I just want to say one thing. ( Internouncing call.) If the cost to society is higher than the benefits (and sugar in sweetened drinks is one of them), why should we tolerate it, or tolerate it? We need to raise this excise duty crucially! My colleague's proposal for... This proposal 4 is very simple. It's a compromise between industry... and that is a compromise between what we should. The industry invented that they could go to the Ministry of Agriculture and submit their proposal, and now we will decide on it today, let us decide. Colleagues! I call on you to support proposal 4. I call you to stand on people's side, not capital's side! I call on you (Interface.) ... I call you to be with the people! Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U9	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U10	Good morning, honourable colleagues! When looking at the 4th proposal, we must remain very rational and scientifically sound, otherwise we will be politically engaged and we can make a wrong decision for the people of Latvia. I would like to remind Mr Dombrovskis of his arguments against this proposal and call for a hearing. Because indeed with this proposal, with this policy, initiated by the coalition of public administration, the policy will win... we can really just push our manufacturers out of the market and give preference to inostran... Forgive me, foreign importers. What would that mean? This would mean that we will have more sugar-free collasions on the market, and it will really be a blow to our production. I don't think that's right. On the other hand, I believe that Mr Skride's arguments are really remarkable. I think that, while respecting these arguments, we can solve a really real problem that is now for Latvian students, namely obesity. The other reasons why obesity arises for our children, in my view, are secondary because it is the consumption of sugar-containing drinks (especially in schools, especially in large cities) that is devastating for our children, so it is a serious problem. But here I am simply calling on my fellow Members who have put forward this idea to provide accurate data - so, however, to what extent there is a sugar-containing colloquium on the market and to what extent there is a sugar-free colloquium. This is very serious. In fact, this issue, I believe, is not prepared for viewing at the Saeima. If we act economically, this issue should simply be withdrawn from the Commission's perspective in order not to ruin... would not be buried at all, but carefully consider the commission again, find the answer to all the counter arguments and then resubmit to the Saeima sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U11	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U12	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Mr Bondar mentioned Karli Ulmani and three spoons of sugar. Of course, Mr Ulmanis, when he said this, thought much about our economy. And today too... I would like to ask you to listen to what the largest business organisation in Latvia says about the economy, and look at this proposal in a balanced way, so that it does not harm the industry itself, because the sector is the one that pays those taxes so that there is this money in the area of health. And we should look to the maximum... in order to minimise the harm to the sector itself. But... if we're talking about health, then this would be the right place to mention it... Excise duty on alcohol - that is what we are reducing, and it has no health connection whatsoever as it sounds like here. As well as excises like wine... Why don't you look at wine? Why could a wine not raise excise duties? It is also, I think, a very large source of revenue. Why are we... Is that so? Today, many colleagues are also using these here... so-called IQOS... And there... I think there's no smuggling in this area... And for this... this one (interfaces.) I mean, it's really... In my opinion, a place where additional revenue could be generated. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support for the proposal made by the Ministry of Agriculture, however, and for us to look at this matter more specifically and to be open to ourselves. This proposal may increase budget revenue, but it has nothing to do with improving health.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U13	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U14	Good morning! An interesting subject was touched here: that a person who apparently had never been in the countryside entered the store and discovered that even the bread had sugar. Well, I have to say this: if you try, for example, to create rye bread, I want to see those rye grains (not genetically modified!) which you will use in this process... where there is no sugar. Because as far as I know, rye grains usually contain sugar... in normal form... for the proportion is 1-3 percent (as far as I know!) . The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš’ intermediate call.) Of course, there may be different varieties... and so on. The Latvian traditions of course contain such things as the preparation of rye bread. To those who do not know who has not been in the countryside, I will explain that the preparation of rye bread consists of several stages. First... One of the first stages is the so-called in-sight preparation. The preparation of the sample is a process in which the starch is over-sugared to increase sugar content. It's a Latvian lifestyle. I know that for many there on the left, it is known. ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) And the other thing. So it's fine and desirable, so it's very good and desirable. And why is it desirable? The Latvians, you see, were not stupid. Sugar is not the root of all evil. You see, there are different types of cells and their food is glucose. And it's... different cells consume different amounts of glucose. Those who think are mainly active in brain cells. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. Well, it's already researched by scientists. ( Internouncing call.) And right in the brain cells consume twice as much glucose as all other cells. ( Internouncing call.) Therefore, sugar is not evil, and it is quite normal that it is consumed. But there's another thing about sugary drinks. In this case, however, I have to agree more with the liberal wing, which hates all this (Dep. I. Zarins: Sugar! )... historical sugar, as we say, the use of growing adults in food. There's one thing: when you're trying to eat bread and reach some grams of sugar, you have to eat, I don't know, this is a mountain with bread. It's not physically possible. ( Internouncing call.) On the other hand, when you drink such juices, which, by the way, are much healthier often when comparing the amount of sugar in 100 grams for the same collum. Look at this! You consume a lot of grams in one, say, refresh... or at the same time. For example, you know that usually without half a litre of cola or juice, nothing happens. Minimum, half a mile. That's at least 50 grams of sugar. The problem is that this... It's a food product that's very much... which is consumed very much in volume and where, in general, there is a very high amount of sugar in absolute terms. That's why, although I also use cola (of course I must also be honest, I use cola in various other drinks), I won't suffer because I don't treat it for liters... and also juice drink a litre of beer, better drink water. That is why I am in favour of excise duty on sugar. When you, WHY, resist the Latvian lifestyle, want to raise the excise duty on bread... for sugar, I'll come to the barn and you, and I'll call you to go to the fields. But for the time being, I think it is the story of sugary drinks that is to be supported. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U15	Name to Member Andris Flyrem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U16	Good morning, honorable Bureau! Dear colleagues, I would remind you, therefore, that the most important death rate in Latvia, which is linked to lifestyle risk factors and precisely to eating disorders, is 31 percent. On average, in Europe, only 18 percent. And the stupidity I heard today about carbohydrate metabolism is beyond my mind. Let us remember that there is no build-up of sugar in the body. The carbohydrates are not able to keep their reserves in the body. They are automatically deposited in the liver, creating fatty hepatosis - one; being deposited in the all-ceramic fat of us all on the abdomen - two, and being converted into cholesterol - three. Colleagues, but if we eat proteins, fat, it doesn't happen, then cells are formed to structure. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Andre, tell me better than you voted for the snuff!” ) That's one. Second, colleagues. We have also received a letter from the Latvian Pediatric Association, which points to these sugar-containing drinks as one of the biggest problems, and the Latvian Pediatric Association also asks us to increase this excise duty here. Go on. You talked about tobacco. The proposals are ready. You talked about salt. But I'm going to end again by saying that three things we eat too much kill us. And these three things are. The first one is sugar. It's exactly in that format... If we consume carbohydrates as a grain, it's okay, but if we consume carbohydrates in these sweetened drinks, it's not good. The second thing is salt, and the third thing is trans-fatty acids. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U17	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U18	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I'll count... The coalition had such a poem: “We will change taxes once - in 2021.” Now it's 2021, it turns out. Today. That's what it's like to travel on time. But if you're serious, then just let's just make a vernacular... You know what you're doing. In essence, you are doing to promote Coca-Cola products, which will increasingly replace the products of local producers. That is exactly what will happen. Absolutely clear, because Latvia does not appear in Coca-Cola's balance sheet. It's such a small market that it's not worth statistics. Coca-Cola will be able to hold their products at what price level they want. They will remain such, but the price of Latvian products – “ILGEZEEM” kvass, juice and everything else – will rise up. Coca-Cola will stay where it is, will increase the producer price of our products, and of course, the choice of slow... it's already quite fast... Coca-Cola will move on. That is what you are doing today. Nothing to do with health, nothing to do with the rest! That's total stupidity. That, I think, is very clear to you. Just let it be known. You are currently undermining local producers in favour of imported products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U19	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U20	Dear President, Honourable Members! There is a concept of common sense. For beverages with a sugar content of up to 8 grams, we set a price of 7.4 (Dep. A. Skride: “Now there is!” ), then, to reach 8 grams, we increase immediately almost three times - to 20 euros, as we offer here. The Commission has shown greater reason, they have proposed to raise twice - up to EUR 14. I therefore call for support for the Commission's proposal, that is, for proposal 5, to vote 'in favour' of it, then to make a study. If, indeed, during a half-year or a year, we see that the proportion of foreign drinks in the local industry will not increase, then, of course, we can look at complexes - or increase more or not. But make such jumps -- three times or two times... That is already enough if we double. I therefore call for support to be given to 5. - the Commission's proposal, but reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U21	The name of Member Inese Voika for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U22	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! A lot of spears are broken. For the first time, we are talking about the excise duty on sugar. I think it is essential for us to take this decision - which we will be voting on in a moment's time for this proposal, and also for the next one - to realise that you all supported at first reading a more nuanced proposal that was directly aimed at improving health. And we, with this proposal... In negotiations with Latvian producers, we changed it so that at the first time this change of tax and various excise duties on sweetened drinks would be more gradual. However, if we are talking about health, it is essential that our proposal achieves the objective of reducing the consumption of very sweet drinks. No one will deny them. And if it doesn't happen... It's about three or two times... There is a manufacturer question about what... two or three times. This is about the existing excise duty. This is not about the price of sweetened drinks; it will not increase two or three times. It must be that this increase in excise duty leads to an increase in... one half-litre bottle - so essential to reduce consumption. The World Health Organisation, the cancer research centre and others have said that this growth must be sufficient. And that is why we created this proposal, on which I ask you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U23	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U24	Yes, it is true that Mr Bondara is right. Thanks to politicians working (including the Development/Par!) In Latvia there is no more Liepaja sugar factory, there is no more Jelgava sugar factory, there is no more Jēkabpils sugar factory. And now these politicians want (also from Development/About!) ), although there are no juice-producing factories and small production plants. Please do not support Development/About! offer and allow juice producers to exist and develop in Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U25	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U26	Listening to the discussions gives us the feeling that we always want to be the first, in no way the second. At present, in Europe, as I have already said, we are second in terms of obesity levels. No, that's not enough: we want to be the first! (Applause) Sugar must be consumed more! Again, my fellow Members, I would like to draw attention to this. This is a compromise proposal. The first proposal, which was logical and well-founded (Interface: next is the compromise proposal!) )... Yes, yes, so (interim.) ... The previous one that was... Up to 5 grams... from 5 to 8... above 8... tax rates were different. There were much higher rates. And Andris Skride together with her colleagues found a compromise and offers lower tax rates. Instead, we try not to reduce consumption. We call for consumption to remain at the previous level. So we are going to the first place in obesity in Europe. Are you in favour of this? I understand that yes. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova's intermediate call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U27	The name of the Member Anda Chakša for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U28	Good morning, colleagues! What we see and what we hear is that there are very, very different views in society about what sugar means and what different sweeteners mean. My proposal is, in essence, not only about the fact that we need to talk about this price relationship when the sugar content of sweetened drinks increases. One such very important thing is... In kindergartens for children... You have probably seen that they came home and measured (in such small bags put inside), how much sugar each drink contains, starting with various dairy products, and then with sugary drinks. Visually, the amount of sugar in one food or another is very visible. But when you go to a supermarket or no place to shop and choose one of these things, there's... Well, I'll admit, I need the glasses so I can figure something out there... It is already very difficult to see how much... one - there's sugar. Whether it exceeds those five grams, or is between five and eight, or is more. The second is how dangerous it is, and how much of it is in general artificial sweetener that is now... Of course, large producers have already become much more cunning and there is no longer simple sugar, there are artificial sweeteners that are even more dangerous than sugar itself. ( From the NA fraction: ‘ That’s it! ’ ) And I think that in this case... I, of course, argue that there is also a need to increase the price, but one very important thing is that this visual difference must be clearly read, so that its mother or dad, when choosing to buy one of these drinks for his child, can see clearly that this product is dangerous. Perhaps something like those on cigarettes should also be on those drinks of artificial sweeteners and raised sugar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U29	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U30	The question remains: to what extent sugar-containing collas are represented on the market, and to what extent sugar-free collas are represented. If we... As long as we do not know about this relationship, we simply cannot make a rational decision on the proposal under consideration. In fact, all the arguments about health that have been raised here from this tribunal today are right, but a harmonious solution requires statistics. Neither the authors of the proposal nor the critics of the proposal have submitted such statistics to the Saeima for viewing. So I think... Once again, the issue is not ready for viewing and we can simply harm the good idea if we take a decision right away.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U31	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U32	Hello, dear colleagues! The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U33	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - a proposal from Members Skride, Drujish and Voika! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 39, for - 5. The proposal is not supported. ( Insight: “What are the five doing? ” ; dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Two spoons a day!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U34	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U35	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U36	Colleagues! Proposal No 5... It would be much more correct to say that it is not the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard, but the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard, which he has put forward on behalf of the food industry, is it not? Because it's not his proposal. It is a proposal that the food industry brought to him, put on the table. One day I had a conversation with a food company manager. And he said: “You know, in the food industry, the thing is that shareholders demand more money from us. This means we need to reduce costs. Consumers, on the other hand, demand us the same taste. This means that we need to use substances that are not so expensive, but improve the quality of taste.’ He said: “We are slow, but you are killed.” Think, colleagues, before you support proposal 5. Better reject proposal 5, because then there will be a norm that will help Latvian society. I call for proposal 5 to be rejected. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U37	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U38	Good morning, colleagues! I understand that the coalition's sweet speeches are possible only for sugar, but the medical wages are not. And that's why I got the idea to show you how the coalition speaks when it comes to sugar, but not when it comes to medical wages. It sounds like something like this: There's some game going on here, There's headphones, tongues, and maybe still a dozen knots, where pink beaks come in. I'm licking a sweet stick With a tongue like a sea band. Everything around the sticky and white, and finely in finely ground. That coalition talks about sugar - about that. But that's a problem when it comes to sugar... I do not really see it for Development/About! wishes to actually destroy the local industry, but the very inactive position of the National Alliance. Why? ( Internouncing call.) National Association... As we all know very well, Karlis Ulmanis is a sacred thing for the National Association, but it turns out that it is also such a fact installation - a false installation. Mr Bondaras today dug up and said that Karlis Ulmanis once said that every cup of tea and coffee should be put in three spoons of sugar. Why don't you defend those ideas of Karl Ulmanis? Why do you not defend the local producer's support? The restriction on the local manufacturer that you are voting on today is exactly the opposite of Karl Ulmanis's ideas! I guess you're... if you do (from the NA Group: "Look at the vote!" )... You are probably not such a real and real bearer of Karl Ulmanis' ideas. Because if you were, then you would defend the local producer, the National Association! And I wouldn't listen to those sweet speeches like the poetry lines of which the National Association... And Andris Skride... I like the best in this whole context Andris Skride. He talks about heart disease and obesity and so on. But when it comes to voting for alcohol, Andris Skride is the first. A. Scande's intermediate call sign.) ... Andris Skride's first is to make alcohol cheaper, huh? As a doctor, he believes that the people of Latvia need to be heard. That's for him... It's okay! And even when people drink the Coke, which will be written "without sugar", thinking that there is no sweetener there, it's all right - even then, Andris Skrides will have no objections. I think this is a false talk - that we will limit sugar consumption, increase excise drinks and then our people will be less obese. That's a false speech. We should start to limit the huge amount of alcohol consumption, and then Andris Flyres should climb the ladder and support a few other things, not a cheaper sniff. We should talk about excise duty on wine, for example; we should talk about excise duty on those foreign products, not as in this case... This is most harmful to the local producer. Those who produce local kvasu, local health drinks, local juices will suffer the most... Here, on the spot. Will there be a change in the drug trade? Nothing will change completely. I call on the National Association as the most patriotic organisation in the country to defend the local producer and not to pretend to be such false supporters of Karl Ulmanis. Thank you. ( From the NA Group: Have a look at the vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U39	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U40	I want to agree with the many previous speakers from one point of view - let us support the local producer! And how can we support that local producer? It's very simple! So, by rejecting this proposal, the original proposal will come into force. So entrepreneurs will start to think innovatively: how to make their drinks more competitive, more delicious, with less sugar content. So these entrepreneurs will become more for... Exports are more competitive on external markets. That's one. The other one I heard. I have heard talk about Coca-Cola, which doesn't care about it here - this market. I can say that the cola is also produced here, on the spot in Latvia, and these local producers should become more competitive from weight... directly rejecting this proposal. Why is the initial proposal logical and justified? I told you earlier that if you drink the body... If you want to drink and drink... The body is able to absorb the liquid in cases where the sugar content in the liquid is up to four grams per litre. This means that in the original version - up to five grams (some mistake at the limit of four grams) - the body is normally drunk. Okay, if you want something sweeter, a little bit more, it's excise... A little bit. But if it's a oversweet drink, logically it's only logical! - that there is a much higher excise duty. And you don't have to object here to local kvass and health drinks! Now let's not be naive - these drinks, which are high-quality drinks... It will be chosen by the consumer irrespective of the price. ( Internouncing call.) He'll buy that drink, too. We don't drink it every day. But when we want a quality kvass or a health drink, we buy quality, not some cheap juice. I call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U41	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U42	Good day, good day, good day. It'll be interesting right away! You would have thought why Mr. Butane is such a great specialist, but you don't know the answer. He is a shareholder of “Cēsu alus”. ( Owesa.) (ANALYTICAL PLANTS.) Do you know who is the main profit maker of Cēsu alus? Not beer. First of all, it belongs to foreigners. But not beer! These are the cocktails, the jeans, the jeans. These are the cocktails with which the youth drinks. This gentleman even makes a profit from it! ( Laughs) And now he comes here and tells us he won't buy cheap manure! (Laughter) Are you serious?Oh, no, no, That's how it is about morality and so on. I'm just... You could say... Maybe go to the shareholders' meeting and say, "Listen, we end up producing this shit next year!" (Laughter) When you stand up as a shareholder, you call everyone, decide, not come and make some butter here, forgive me! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U43	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U44	Dear colleagues, I just want to introduce a little more clarity on this issue, however. A lot was said here about the local manufacturer of these... We could suffer from our offer, juice producers could be destroyed and so on. First of all, I am asking you then to really get acquainted with what is written in the excise tax law... in the Law on Excise Duty. First of all, drinks and... natural juices and beverages containing natural juices are not subject to excise duty at all. And, of course, there can be a question... and can be said, “Yes, but juices also contain a lot of sugar!” , but let's take it into account - it's true... but there are many different vitamins and minerals in natural juices. It's not just water with sugar and maybe another sweetener or a colorant. So... in fact, amendments and an increase in excise duty on sweet drinks (but I stress - a substantial increase, not one that has been proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture!) support directly those producers who produce fruit and vegetables from which juices are obtained and, further to this, producers of beverages would be interested in adding these juices, natural juices, to their own drinks which will not be subject to excise duty at all if 30 per cent or more of natural juice is present. So there is no need to fundamentally mislead the public and members of the Saeima! In fact, this proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture cannot be supported in this wording, because it does not actually solve anything in substance, and the increase is very minimal. This may lead to a few cents increase in the price of the product. And then, two years later, when this tax came into force, we can say, ‘ Well, you see, there was no effect at all. We got up, but there was no effect.” There will be no effect if we do not raise this excise duty in any way tangible to bring it back to the final price of the product. Consequently, I call for no support to be given to the offer made by the Ministry of Agriculture, which, by its very nature, does not solve anything.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U45	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U46	Hello, fellow Members, again! On the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture. I see two problems there, and I would like to point them out here. The first is that we have said on several occasions that this is not a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture. And so in the future, too, when the Saeima came... The fact that the industry has its own interests is legitimate and understandable, but the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture brings it and says: it is our proposal... Then they sit there, in the Commission, next to the Ministry of Health, who supported both the original proposal and our previous proposal, which we have now rejected... both the Ministry of Finance, which did not raise objections... And the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't say... Only after pressure, he says: “Yes, of course, we worked with industry.” We must have ministries that are not belonging to the industry, as they have been in this country for a very long time, but which defend both citizens and producers. That's one thing. And we should know here at the Saeima... without pressure and without the fact that we are constantly kicking it out of the podium... And the other thing. I think that producers in Latvia should stop seeing each change as such a complete threat. You have to listen to what society... where society is going; how can they support public health? They should face up to this challenge and change within two years (but they are used to making sure that nothing changes and everything stays old), so we can also listen to the things they need. I therefore ask for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U47	Name of Member Regina Lochmelei-Lunovo.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U48	Good afternoon, colleagues! I will also ask for the rejection because this proposal provides for a doubling of excise duty on sugar. I would like to point out to Mr. Butane (interim: “Don’t listen, John!” )... I would like to point out to Mr Butan that she, as a Member of the Saeima, has a duty to support her speech in the facts of the topic. Facts! I am particularly concerned that the facts do not support the presentation by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. I would like to point out that according to statistics from 2019, Latvia is the 81st place in the world, according to the number of people who are obese. In Europe, Latvia holds 8th place in the same data, and we have both Great Britain and Hungary, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria and Spain in front of us, and Norway is right behind Latvia in position 9. And, for example, we are separated from Norway by only 8/10 percent. On average, in Europe, the percentage of people who... who are obese is absolutely the same. That's between 21 and 23 percent. Because it is a problem for the whole of Europe and, unfortunately, I have to say that Mr Skride has also deceived you here and that the World Health Organisation's opinions on the causes of obesity should be read. Read also the UN programs, read simply the opinions of our local dieters, because your speech makes it possible for women to continue eating pasta, white bread, butterflies and nothing! Because you just told me I was talking stupid. Unfortunately, I will tell you that you are speaking foolishly today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Scande's intermediate call sign.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U49	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U50	Dear President, Honourable Members! Let us consider what will happen if we reject this proposal? Then there will be an old, previous proposal of EUR 30 per 100 litres. So that increase will be four times... practical. We did not take the previous three times. I call, however, for support to be given to the proposal supported by the Commission and presented by the Minister for Agriculture - this is the fifth one here. And if there are really ideas that this excise duty should be increased very quickly, then we should also come up with a proposal for a gradual increase, let us say, to some 15 grams maybe we could have... Let's say leave these 14 euros. Then up to 20 grams - maybe we could raise to 20 euros... and in proportion. But I say again, you can't jump about three times at once in excise duty... Four times. After all, we talked about more than 30 percent of alcohol, and we argued. But right here, we're ready right now... Because if we do not vote, I say it will be a four-fold increase. I therefore call for support in this case for the Commission's proposal. And, Mr Bondara, I also see nothing terrible if we support local producers. What are you worried about? You say... You know, you saw... Did you then sit under the table when these local producers came with their proposals? So... I think so. I call for support for the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U51	The name to Member Martin Bondar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U52	Colleagues and colleagues! There is no reason to fear that this proposal will cause such damage to local entrepreneurs and that they have problems. Colleagues, the bill comes into force after two years. If within two years the local company is unable to produce a healthy, delicious, non-alcoholic drink, I would recommend that we close our doors today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U53	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U54	Yes, I too, like Mr Kirštein, however, call for support for the Commission's proposal. Although it increases excise duty, it increases less than at present. But another remark. I was delighted that about the crime that the Minister of Agriculture has spoken to the industry, made a proposal that would come in cooperation with the industry. Better still, that the sector was thus taken away from the ministries, in general... I really... I was called Daniel Pavilut, a alien who passed by. I am sorry, I would very much like me to stay on this planet and that the sectors, especially the economic sectors, would work with their ministries, with their ministers, not be ashamed of the fact that this proposal has been made together as a compromise proposal. It would be just normal. I very much hope that we will continue to do so, not, let us say, untie the forests from the ministry: the Minister will do one policy, the forests will do another... Absurdy's just! Think of what you are offering! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U55	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U56	I'm gonna fix my mistake. Unfortunately, you will have to be invited to support this proposal because there is no other option. Personally, I am against all excise duties being raised in this case, because I believe that there is a need to go a different route in principle: to reduce VAT and in any way, other instruments, prices for healthy foods and to label all foods containing substances harmful to health.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U57	Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( across the board: ‘ Is there sugar or not?’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U58	As far as the way in which this proposal and these accusations were made to the Ministry of Agriculture are concerned, I would like to join Mr Schmidt. It is quite normal that the Ministry of Agriculture works with the industry. And that should be the case - it should be the sector that works. Any other ministry should also work with sectors, industry entrepreneurs, trade unions and thus come up with better proposals. This is the case, it is not opposed to this by the largest business organisations in Latvia. And there has already been a lot of talk about that it will have an impact on certain producers. However, I would like to turn to the Development/Par! Group. . If you experience it so much that a minister is working with the industry, I would ask you to examine... consider your own proposals when you move them and how your ministers work, at the moment when a basketball club appears new sponsors, because then new initiatives, new directions from Development/About! , from ministers who are from “Development/Par!” . So, colleagues, start with yourself and think before you talk about some pressures you look like yourself!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U59	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U60	Development/About! , obviously thinking that the Ministry of Agriculture does not have to work with the industry, does so... as with the reform. Then when I was going to Suncrasts yesterday, where with eggs abode, if... that you don't want to talk to the industry in principle, you don't want to take into account... They would probably like all businessmen, just like their respective ministries to solve the problems by pretending their houses with eggs... That's one thing. The other thing I understood in this sugar discussion. Those who say that we need to increase excise duty have no argument in substance. They do not have any arguments for a number of reasons. Firstly, because it was promised that taxes will not be raised this year. Second... Secondly, there is a total misunderstanding that tax raising is like helping entrepreneurs, although we all understand that in Latvia overall, the tax burden on businesses is too high. And the third thing that I understood - that it is both in a direct and permeable sense: the movement of this excise duty on sugar is, in principle, advocated by the most prominent Members of the Saeima - both in a direct and in a direct sense. Those who have the greatest influence on some position, or those who are dependent on... apparently sugar. Because in a normal situation... If we look at and compare, there is no... To the background of other countries... There is no obese society in Latvia. Our Members too... If you look at the Members - well, these are not the fattest Members that have been in Latvia's history. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) And... and...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U61	Mr Gobzem, I have to tell you, and I will refer to Article 8 of the Saeima's Code of Conduct, which states: "The Member respects human rights and does not use argument to refer to his opponent's race, gender, skin colour, nationality, language, religious belief, social origin... “
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U62	I didn't.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U63	“... or health status.’
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U64	Neither did I refer to health.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U65	This is also a state of health.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U66	Also, I did not refer to health.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U67	I call on you to respect the code of conduct of Members of the Saeima. ( The utterances: “Time! ”) ) I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U68	Proposal by the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard - 5. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U70	6. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U72	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U74	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U76	9. - An offer from Members Skride, Drujish and Voika. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U77	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U78	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U79	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U80	11. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U82	12. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U84	13. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U86	I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U87	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U88	Hello, colleagues! ‘ Amendments to the Law on Security Activities’ (No. 541/Lp13) designed to reduce the share of the shadow economy in the security sector and to promote fair competition. It is planned to set up an electronic service “Registered Security Operators” in which controlling authorities, customers and residents will be able to verify the registration of the trader for security operations or exclusion from the register, as well as to obtain more detailed information about the registered security trader. The draft law provides that when registering in the register of security officers and internal security services, the security officer will no longer be issued a special permit (licence) and, accordingly, a registration certificate to the internal security service. Instead, the security operator and the internal security service are registered in a register which will at the same time be the issue of an authorisation for the provision of security services. The security businessman will be obliged to keep his information up to date in the register on a regular basis. A digital application will be created for each operator. There is scope for regular updating and updating of the register. This will include all security-related actors. The register will include not only security operators, but also industry-related training centres (professional development courses), which will exclude future risks of obtaining false certificates. Electronic recording of working time at the item will also be used. Detailed requirements to establish delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers are being prepared also the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers under this draft law are being prepared. During the development of the draft law, there were consultations with industry associations with whom good cooperation has been carried out. The associations supported the register concept. The planned users of the register will be the State Police, security officers, entities of operational activities, investigation institutions, State Revenue Service, State Labour Inspectorate, court, prosecutor’s office, Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau, state security institutions, educational institutions, as well as any person who wishes to check whether the security firm is registered for the provision of security services, basic information about the company’s range of services and services provided. The amount of the State fee for the registration of the security operator and the internal security service is left to the existing level and will ensure a level playing field for former and new companies. It is also foreseen that, for the performance of a single contract, the prime contractor is entitled to attract no more than one subcontractor, thereby encouraging the development of the number of employees at the disposal of the economic operator and the logistical provision. The draft law was approved by the Commission at its meeting on 21 January this year. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U89	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U90	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 20 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U91	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 20 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Natural Persons”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U92	Good morning, colleagues! In the Commission we looked at the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Register of Natural Persons (No. 523/Lp13). The draft law provides for the addition to the Register of Natural Persons with a new range of entities - foreign diplomatic representatives accredited in Latvia and their family members. The entry of these entities in the Register of Natural Persons is subject to freedom of choice. Such regulation is necessary because there are situations in Latvia where the personal code is mandatory, for example, to receive different services. This regulation has been created in line with the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U93	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Natural Persons” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U94	The deadline for tabling proposals for second reading is 20 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U95	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U96	We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits” (No. 504/Lp13). The Commission has unanimously supported the draft law at first reading and has... That's later. But in principle, the essence of the draft law is that the obligation of the Minister of Justice to determine places of war trials, the composition of the courts and so on is foreseen. That is the main issue. I ask you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U97	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U98	The good news is that this coalition is not planning war in the near future, and therefore the deadline for submitting proposals is 31 March 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U99	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 31 March this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U100	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, For the first reading, the Legal Commission has examined and supported the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” promoted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The draft law provides for the transfer of the administrative liability currently included in the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations in the field of use of the Latvian flag to the special law of the sector. The draft law also provides for competent authorities to carry out administrative infringement proceedings. These are State Police, Local Government Police, Administrative Commission of Local Government or Sub-Commission, Consumer Rights Protection Centre, NBS Maritime Force Coast Guard Service. It is foreseen that the law will enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability on 1 July this year. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U101	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U102	The deadline for the second reading of the proposals is 28 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U103	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U104	Hello, honourable colleagues! The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted a draft law in accordance with the Diaspora Law adopted by the Saeima on 1 November 2018 and the eighth paragraph of Section 15 thereof: “The recidivist Diaspora member, who is considered to be a resident of Latvia for tax purposes, shall be subject to the non-taxable minimum pension for the taxation of personal income received abroad to the extent that it is determined in the respective foreign country.” This task was to be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers by 28 February 2019. And today we see it. The aim of the draft law is to promote the return of members of pre-retirement age to Latvia. The proposed law provides for the detailed conditions under which this non-taxable minimum will be applied by the foreign countries concerned and also imposes an administrative burden on the applicants who will apply for this non-compulsory minimum on an annual basis to submit a document from the foreign country concerned, which is the sum of this non-taxable minimum amount in that foreign country, together with a income declaration. And another condition is that the pension age set in our country must be reached in order to qualify for this non-eligible minimum in a given foreign country. If the non-taxable minimum of this foreign country or, in other words, the pension is not taxed, then a ceiling of EUR 1000 per month is imposed, which does not really correspond to that function of the Diaspora law. The discussions in the Commission were very broad and detailed. In general, the Commission supported this draft law at first reading with a view to improving it and improving it in the future.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U105	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U106	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! With this draft law, the non-application of the unlimited minimum pension earned abroad in Latvia is approaching its culmination with personal income tax. We have come a long way since autumn 2017, when, having been addressed by the European Latvian Association, I submitted a proposal to the budget for 2018 for the application of the unlimited minimum pension earned abroad to the extent that it was established abroad. At the time, in 2017, with the exception of the CROSS, no political group supported this proposal. Later on, the proposal regarding the budget for this year and the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to fulfil the promise already included in the Diaspora Law and to submit amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax” in the Saeima with the votes of the government coalition group had been rejected. Now, finally, a business conversation has been launched, which I hope will be crowned with the adoption of a legal framework that will motivate the people of Latvia who live abroad to return to Latvia. It is clear that the wording of the draft law under consideration will have to be improved at second reading. First of all, there is a difference between the Diaspora law and the current text. Section 15(8) of the Diaspora Law deals with taxation of pension income earned abroad with personal income tax. In turn, in this draft law, the regulation applies to income from old-age pensions earned abroad. The European Latvian Association also points to other shortcomings in the draft law. In particular, regulation must not create non-enforceable conditions or impose a disproportionate administrative burden on the parties affected. It is necessary to ensure that not every individual applicant would provide the State Revenue Service with a foreign certificate on the extent of the exemption, but that through the exchange of information between them the SRS would clarify with the relevant tax authority in the particular country. Individual applicants living in Latvia would not be placed in a situation where they have to go to the country each year or otherwise ask for such special certificates. Such certificates, by the way... standard form... Most countries do not exist at all, according to the European Latvian Association. The concept of “depreciable minimum pension” does not exist in a number of countries, as is also stated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. There are countries where the general tax regime applies to total income, and there are countries where the minimum subsistence is not a non-negotiable minimum. So in the bill... from the applicant in the requested document... There should be no mandatory specific reference to the non-eligible minimum, but to the threshold from which personal income tax would apply to the applicant’s pension abroad. The draft law should ensure that this possibility should apply not only to the reimmigrants who will return to Latvia and become residents of its tax after the entry into force of the law, but also to the eligible applicants registered in Latvia before its entry into force. And more. The European Latvian Association points out that the assessment foreseen in the transitional provisions should be planned for five years or 60 months after the entry into force of the law, rather than for three years as currently established. By setting a deadline in 2023, there will not be enough time to return to the target group, namely pensioners who want to return to Latvia really, and there will be no possibility to assess their impact on Latvian tax revenue and consumption. Certain organisations representing emigrants should be heard in order to make regulation simple, clear and easy to implement. I call for support for the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U107	Thank you. Mr. Judine, you're going to have a debate with five or six minutes? The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U108	Hello, colleagues! I also call for support for this draft law, but knowing that I will not work on the committee that will assess it, I would like to focus on one problem. The draft law emphasises that it has been designed to address the problem of re-immigrants. This is very important and very rightly. But please note that there are not only people who left Latvia and then return to Latvia, but there are also people who may have been born in the UK, who earned money there and, for example, when they are 60 years old, decided to live here. And he got the status, and he lives here. So they will have to pay other taxes, and they will have a different approach. There are also people who may be the people of Latvia and have never gone away, but worked somewhere away and then received a salary, and they also have to have money, a pension of some kind. Will they not, either, be subject to the amendments that we have planned? I believe that we must talk about all these groups. We shouldn't focus on law using terminology... The law should not write "remigrants"; we should talk about people who have income from abroad. I ask the Members of the Commission to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U109	Thank you. Mr. Legen, four minutes' time? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leiiņš: “Yes, absolutely!” ) The name to the Member Atm.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U110	A unique man stands in front of you. ( Milestones.) I eat two countries SRS-Swedish... I paid taxes in Sweden for the small pension that I received, and I paid taxes in Latvia, of course. And the SRS that I am honest still charges me extra taxes for paying a little tax to Latvia... Because I paid... Ah, it's completed intricate (interface.) ... The tax is all, yeah. I get double taxation. Think of the fact that you are now looking at that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U111	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U112	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U113	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U114	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 February 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U115	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 February this year. Colleagues, time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Name for reading the results of the registration to Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U116	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, Boris Cilevičs, Aldis Gobzems, Janīna Jalinska... Yes, Richard Cole, Inara Mourniece... ( Interface: ‘ I am! ’) )... Yes, Ivars Puga, Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko and Reinis Znotiņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U117	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U118	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We shall proceed to the discussion of the agenda for the meeting on 30 January. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Road tolls Act”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U119	Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! Well, we're resting, we're starting to work! Before the second reading, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Road tolls Act’. Four proposals have been received. All four proposals have been received from the Legal Office. All four proposals have been supported. The proposal is received from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U121	The proposal is also received from the Legal Office. And that's also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U123	Proposal No 3 has also been received from the Legal Office. And that's also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U125	And 4, concluding, the proposal is also received from the Legal Office. And that's also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U127	Colleagues! On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I ask you to support the draft law on Amendments to the Road tolls Act at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U128	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road tolls”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U129	Colleagues! Let us await your proposals by 19 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U130	The deadline for submitting proposals is 19 February this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U132	Draft law ‘Amendments to criminal law’, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U133	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission examined 19 proposals before the draft law "Amendments to the Criminal Law" (No. 425/Lp13) at second reading. I would like to point out in particular that discussions were held on these proposals and other related proposals; several sub-committee meetings of the Criminal Law Policy were also held before they were discussed at the Legal Commission meeting. And now I will focus on the proposals. Proposal 1 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which intended to supplement the General Part of the Criminal Law with a norm, stating that in the cases provided for in the Special Part, an offence may be qualified as an offence committed in a group of persons even if at least one of the members of the group is a special entity. In the light of the uncertainties that could arise in the interpretation of the norm, this proposal was not supported both by the subcommittee and the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U134	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U135	Proposal No 2 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, which intended to substantially expand the concept of "a single committed criminal offence" by identifying as a separate continuing criminal offence also offences which... covered by a single purpose and whose total value reaches a certain level. This proposal was not supported, given the major objections both from the theoreticians and practitioners.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U136	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U137	Proposals 3, 4 and 5. The applicant is Member Karina Sprūde. The proposals relate to the conditions for imposing a fine. The proposals are also related to the amendments proposed by Member Sprūde to the Criminal Procedure Law. These proposals were not supported by the sub-Commission. The Commission also assessed the proposals of Member Sprūte and they have not received any support. Thus 3. - the motion of Member Strove - the Legal Commission has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U138	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U139	4. - The proposal from Member Slurry. The Commission for Legal Affairs is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U140	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U141	5. - The proposal from Member Slurry. The Commission for Legal Affairs is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U142	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U143	Proposal No 6 Applicant - Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. This proposal provides for the addition of a list of aggravating circumstances, which provides that in future, the fact that the person who committed the offence has intentionally given false evidence may also be recognised as aggravating circumstance. The Legal Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U145	The next one is the group of proposals prepared by the Ministry of Justice. Proposals 7, 9 and 10 concern the establishment of conditions for early release for life of sentenced persons. After extensive discussions within the Commission on Criminal Law Policy and also within the Commission for Legal Affairs, the Members did not support a more liberal regulation on the life of sentenced persons who could be exempted from execution before the deadline. On the other hand, proposal 8 provides for the establishment of a procedure that does not include detention during the sentence, which coincides with the execution of a custodial sentence for another criminal offence. This proposal is supported. In particular, Proposal 7. Applicant - Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U146	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U147	Proposal No 8. Applicant - Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U149	Proposal No 9. Applicant - Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U150	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U151	Proposal No 10 Applicant - Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U152	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U153	Proposal No 11 Applicant - Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. It shall be provided that when determining the type of means of coercion for a legal person, account shall be taken not only of the nature of the criminal offence and the damage caused, but also of whether the legal person has previously been subject to a coercion. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U155	Proposal No 12. Applicant - Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Provision shall be made for the provision that property belonging to a person who committed an offence which by its nature is aimed at obtaining material or other benefit, regardless of whether the crime has resulted in the material or other benefit, may also be recognised as criminally acquired. This proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U157	Proposals 13 and 14 are editorial. 13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U159	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U161	Proposal No 15 Applicant - Member Andrejs Judin. Provision shall be made for greater responsibility in cases where false declarations have caused serious damage or serious consequences. The Commission supported this proposal but, in the light of the editorial clarifications, a proposal by the Legal Commission was drawn up, including the rules drafted by Member Andrejs Judine. The proposal has been partly supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U163	16. - The legal commission's proposal. Refers to the above-mentioned Member Judine's suggestion of greater responsibility in cases of false statements... qualified compositions. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U165	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The criminal liability for breach of the prohibition on the use of hazardous construction shall be established. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U167	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is a technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U169	19. - The proposal by Member Karina Scratch. This is linked to the proposals referred to above and not supported by the Commission on the replacement of a custodial sentence by a fine. The proposal is not supported or put to the vote by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U170	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U171	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U172	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U173	The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U174	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 13 February this year. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. We have to register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U175	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, Boris Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Inese Ikstena. Sub-words: “On the other hand!” “Chach is here!” )... Anda Čakša, Inese Iksten, Rihards Kols, Igor Pimenov, Ivars Puga, Karina Sprūde, Julija Stepanenko and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-06-PT13-2037-U176	Thank you. The agenda for the sitting of the Saeima on 6 February will be discussed in 10 minutes, i.e. at 11.25 p.m.
