ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! The agenda for the second remote emergency session on 18 December 2020 will continue. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 17 322 Latvian citizens “Let children breathe freely at school””. The procedure had been applied for before the break by Member Jūlija Stepanenko. Does Member Stepanenko want to talk about the procedure?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U2	Yes, colleagues, good morning! I...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U3	Mrs Stepanenko, please apply also to the electronic system. ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U4	Good morning, colleagues! I just wanted to remind you that we closed the debate with such a peculiar statement by Mr Butan. I would very much like to wait... Perhaps also a comment by the chairman of the sitting on what we have heard... whether this name, which Mr Butan mentioned, is now to be used in the Saeima in a broader way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U5	Thank you to Mrs Stepanenko. Once again, I can only call on Members to respect the political roll and code of conduct of the Saeima, and in particular Article 7 thereof: ‘The Member shall avoid in public statements words, gestures and other acts which may be offensive, and shall not use statements which are offensive or incompatible with the respect of the Saeima...’, and Article 18: ‘The Member shall develop its language and its language skills’. But, honourable colleagues, if there is a wish, these issues can always be assessed in depth by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. So we are continuing the debate on the draft decision. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Mr. Dombrava, you had applied before the break. If you want to speak, you have to log in again! Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U6	Yes, colleagues, good morning! I really do call for this view not to be exaggerated because with facial masks we will be able to beat the virus when it comes to just one facial mask. If we look at the positive example of the countries that have managed to beat the virus to a large extent already now, then strict border controls are ensured there. Any newcomer is tested for a virus. It is also strictly observed whether he is keeping himself isolated or quarantined, not that the borders are open, that any citizen of the world is in, that control is less than in hospitals, and that we only see a solution in the face. Of course, correct use of facial masks helps stop the virus; misuse directly causes more problems. I would urge you not to discuss, for a long time, the correct or incorrect use of facial masks, but to proceed to the vote. Then the question will return to the Cabinet of Ministers for another evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U7	The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U8	Yes, good morning, colleagues! It seems to me that this was a debate where we heard the most controversial opinions in one sentence from time to time. I would say that in this case I do not even see the real reason why this draft law should be sent back to the Cabinet of Ministers. If we look at the epidemiological situation, what medical professionals warn us about, it is actually the opposite of protecting children at the moment: not allowing children to breathe freely at school, but making these children to some extent the victims. The other thing. What is totally unacceptable to me - that Members allow medical workers to be attacked - those who are currently fighting for the lives of people in medical facilities are fighting for the lives of their colleagues. And what permissions (and we accept others) to shake them and name them in different words. The third thing that I think is also very important. This is not a story about children, this is a story about their parents. When each of the Members talks about the correct or wrong use of masks... Parents are not divorced from their families, they are allowed to train their children at home... They are the fears of parents, not children, of masks and parents’ resistance to masks. We are talking a lot about domestic violence. We are talking about emotional violence. But when children are displayed on the Saeima sitting screens after 10 a.m., it's violence. When children have to be in beds with pajamas and cleaned teeth, they are exhibited in front of members of the Saeima. And it's violence! This is not a story about children - this is a story about their parents and about our attitude towards how we want to limit infection. Do we want to play games or do we really want to limit this infection and help people to wait calmly for the time when the vaccine comes. Thank you. I think we need to win at some point in our mind.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U9	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U10	Yes, good morning, colleagues! Thank you. This draft decision has been created thanks to 17 322 submissions from Latvian citizens. These are people who doubt, they are people who demand clarity, and they are people who want to know exactly why they are being forced to do so and what the positive and possibly negative consequences will be. Why do people doubt? Because they don't believe it. Why don't they believe? Because probably the decisions made by the government and politicians so far call them into question the professionalism of the government and the quality of its work. Emotions - this is just a secondary way of showing people their frustration, ignorance and despair. Unfortunately, the government, acting so far, and ministers did not give the public the confidence that they were acting in the public interest. That is why what is happening now is also happening: people's displeasure. People show their attitude to what is happening and demand clarity. People are trying to protect their children. One more thing. I also really doubt that for children carrying masks... So they're gonna save us from the future spread of the virus. Perhaps Mrs Stepanenko was right that the best solution would be simply to shut down schools and kindergartens and ensure complete isolation by giving the child safe to the family and compensate families for their losses... Pressed starters... being at home with children. And yes, Mr. Dombrava was also right. In my opinion, it is also a logical step to close the border or to monitor those crossing the border more closely and to give more attention to this issue. Why, then, will our children now answer non-professional or insufficient action by government ministers? Another aspect that I did not like very much, so to say, from Friday. Why Mr. Dūriss was allowed to use “Image... “ and so the terminology? One more moment. Then, with an expert, "Image... “, Gott, this term... Mr Butane consulted when he decided to open up the road maintenance market and return 60 million to the cartel of road builders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U11	Thank you. Colleagues, for clarity and for the verbatim record, let Mr Dūreis keep to the political roll and code of conduct of the Saeima during his speech, but also, as Mrs Švekova said, this is about another Member. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U12	Good morning, dear colleagues! Well, there's so many peer accusations and insults coming here for those who listen to specialists don't listen to specialists. I am looking specifically at this issue, what exactly the recommendations of the World Health Organisation are, the answers to the question of whether children should carry a mask or not. The World Health Organization gives such a clear answer only to children who are smaller than... which do not exceed five years of age - no, do not have to carry masks. And those over 12 years of age have to wear masks like adults. But the question is about children between the ages of six and 12. And there, the World Health Organisation does not give any clear answer, whether those children should wear masks or not, and says that this response depends on the evaluation, taking into account several “for” and “for”. These include factors such as whether proper monitoring of children will be ensured to ensure that children can properly wear and remove masks, or whether they can either replace masks in schools or wash them out to meet the required requirements. That, for example, is... I quote: “It depends on the potential impact on children’s psychosocial development.” The World Health Organization quite clearly states in its recommendations that these decisions should be made in consultation with, I stress, teachers and parents. So the World Health Organization itself says that these decisions need to be made in consultation with parents, including children. That is why I find it hard for some of my fellow Members here to understand such a groaning about the parents of a child. Then I will call on colleagues to read the recommendations of the same World Health Organisation - see that a professional evaluation of them for and against this issue is needed. So we're here... I understand that coalition colleagues call on us to trust that the government has assessed this and, if it has assessed it, then the government will ensure everything that the World Health Organisation requires. In particular, both - to have supervision of those children and - will be able to replace or wash their masks. And so that children's psychosocial development is taken into account, that there will be consultations with their parents and teachers. The coalition Members are calling on us now to trust that the government will ensure all this. But, colleagues, coming back to our debate on Friday and remembering one computer for remote learning in the Valka district, and remembering the reaction of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science to the fact that this issue is all about... that the mayor of Valka dared to say publicly about this - about only one computer, refuting him that, behold, he did not write any letters there through the Ministry of Education and Science. I have no such conviction, colleagues, that this proper assessment of the government will take place. Although what to do with this - well, it's hard for me to say. Here perhaps I should agree with my colleague, Mrs Chakša, that returning it for re-evaluation by the government may not make sense if there is no confidence, there is no belief that this... If for the first time it's really done, well, I don't know where the reasons are to believe it's going to happen for the second time. Unfortunately, we have quite a systemic problem with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U13	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U14	Good morning, honourable Members. Good morning, chair of the sitting! Good morning, everyone who listens to this beautiful debate! I see that the holidays have not come for a good time. To this beautiful, full-blown Friday debate, honourable fellow Members... I would like to remind you of what we are talking about right now. So we have one draft decision that must either be supported or rejected. In this case, let us drop back on the ground and read what is written – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 17 322 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Let children breathe freely in school””. We open the document and look at what the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has decided. And it has decided that on the basis of this application “Let children breathe freely in school”, to instruct the Cabinet to reassess the order of 6 November. Everything we're talking about for about eight hours... You won't deny - bad! - You will. Now at least Ramona Petraviča, who is both a Member and a Minister, will be able to bring more information to his colleagues' office and tell them about the debate that has been. But today, dear colleagues, let us finish this debate on masks, let children breathe freely at school! Thank you to Mrs Čakša for a very strong point on the 'i' assembly. Hello, Anda! Thank you for doing this. Let's stop this simple, well, yelling about and around. Neither you are an inectologist, nor can you influence the course or failure of this application at the moment by your decision. Both options are not acceptable to you. Whether to move or not - what do you want? Just swipe now... is it still? Let's start Monday with a frightful fluffing...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U15	Mr. Neighbours, I have to tell you... I'm calling...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U16	I got it. And, Mrs. Moore, you too, good morning!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U17	... to use expressions connected with the respect of the Saeima in this parliamentary debate. Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. Mr. Zarins, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U18	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U19	You can.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U20	Thank you. Good morning, everybody! For those who have not yet woke up, they do not understand what we are doing here, I will explain that we are discussing this decision, and the nature of its debate is as follows: the government has taken its current decision, while the public has responded to this decision and is asking us, the Saeima, to act, that is to say, asking for a review of that decision. What we are trying to understand at the moment (at least personally, as a person who does not really have competence on this issue, I want to understand whether this government decision has indeed been made reasonable, well thought out, and there is no reason for public concern and protest, or yet it is not. If you remember, colleagues, on Friday, at the very end of the debate, I called for a competent response here. So if the government considers this to be so, by making young children wear masks, that the risks of transmission of infection decrease, I would ask you to explain whether the government has, in parallel, considered and presented in its decision how it will achieve the correct use of these masks for young children. I was hoping that Mrs Chakša, who had applied for a debate, would tell you everything that the government, which was responsible and wise to decide - as I understand they think - once again has decided to make sure that these masks are actually used correctly, that the masks are... The next question is that the masks are provided to the extent that is really necessary to enable children to change them. Is it ever thought that they are intended to be changed? Go on. My question was also how these masks would work in a room that does not ventilation, which does not have adequate ventilation, whether or not they would work. And I also asked: has the government decided and thought about what meaningful sustainable solutions? Because one thing is that they are now in despair chaoticly, suddenly making some decision - well, let us now also wear masks for young children - but maybe this thoughtful decision, if we really want to reduce the risk of transmission in schools, is to think about ventilation, proper ventilation in schools, because no one has a secret that in the way that the heating of schools has been carried out, in many places, ventilation of these rooms has suffered much of this. Then maybe the right way was not that you're going to try out for little kids now... just put them on top of the mask, but think: one - about ventilation of the premises, the other - about the organization of the learning process to reduce the density of people in the room. I think that is what we should think about, because what we are seeing now, what is happening globally, this virus in the mouth, is appearing in some new variations. We may need to think not of any short - term options, we close something for a moment in the hope that everything will change, but think about how we will actually live with this virus and continue to work, study, and live. This means changes in the production organisation, changes in the technical requirements of the premises to ensure ventilation. Otherwise, what is the point of making children wear masks if they don't mean to wear them, nor do they wear ventilators. I call on those who believe that the government has done everything right - come and say: is it all thought or not? Otherwise, what you're doing here... It is you who work with demagogy and say: “Well, all, all, all! The government has decided. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. There will be no saying to the people at all.” Personally, I do not agree with this. I want to understand what the right decision is. At the moment, I am not convinced that the government has done everything correctly. I think it would be right then to decide that we are giving this popular initiative once again to the government to decide, come and explain to the public our meaningful, well-thought decision or to prove once again that they have acted incompetently, chaoticly, not head-in-head, but another place for fear of this plague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U21	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U22	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to call on you to put an end to the debate on this issue and to vote in favour of this initiative and this decision being re-examined in the Cabinet. For your part, I would like to call on you to respect each other, because we are an example for society as a whole, and if Members of the Saeima cannot control their emotions and thus increase the aggression of society itself? In turn, I will ask the government to develop my communication skills with the public, because this initiative... A huge number of people who have signed it have only shown that communication with the government has failed and is indeed a systemic communication crisis... which needs to be improved. Please vote in favour of the referral to the Cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U23	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U24	Good morning, Mrs. Spykers! Good morning, colleagues! So, on behalf of the commission... The Commission assessed and decided that it would invite the Cabinet to reassess this decision, on which votes have been collected in the MyaBalss.lv system. I therefore call on the Commission to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 17 322 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Let children breathe freely in school”! Please, let's vote! For - 90, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U26	The Act “On Unemployment Insurance”... During the previous crisis, we accepted such a special unemployment benefit. And it implies that if a person loses his unemployment pay at the time of the communion crisis, which therefore goes six months, then for another four months a person can continue to receive €180. The specific amendments provide for an extension of the time limits so that the person can receive the benefit for an even longer period. These are three extended periods, i.e. a half-year extension of the period for granting the unemployment benefit; an extension of the period for suspending the payment of the benefit in the event of employment; and an extension of the period for granting the unemployment benefit to a person from the date of submission of the application for the grant of the unemployment benefit. Commission as No 1 asks the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U28	On behalf of the Commission, I also ask for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U29	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U30	Having asked both the Bureau of Law and the Ministry of Welfare, it was found that no proposals for second reading were envisaged, and Members unanimously asked the Commission to approve the draft law at second reading in the Saeima sitting without re-examination by the committee, if no one objected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U31	Please enable the procedure section. Are Members opposed to the final reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? Members have not applied. Let's vote. Let us vote on the draft law at final reading. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Job Seekers”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U32	The very essence of the draft law is that, as before, what has been unemployed while maintaining the status of an unemployed person can become a temporary worker or self-employed person - for a period of up to 60 days for a period of 12 months. This draft law also extends the deadlines (as it is a time of crisis)... how it is possible to apply... and even the draft law itself extends the time limits. The Commission is asking for urgent action to be taken on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers”! Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U34	The Commission is asking for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U36	In consultation with the Bureau, the Ministry of Welfare, Members, it was found that proposals for the second reading would not be submitted and that this should also be adopted as a matter of urgency, so the committee unanimously asked the Saeima to support this draft law in the second, final, reading, without re-examination by the committee. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U37	Please enable the procedure section. Are Members opposed to the final reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? None of the Members have applied; we can vote at final reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Labour Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U38	Good morning, colleagues! The Social and Labour Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” at second reading. The main discussion in the draft law is on the transposition of the legal framework of the European Union, which amends the directive on the posting of workers for the provision of labour services, and this concerns the posting of workers. The main discussion is on what percentage of the daily subsistence allowance is paid by the employer to the posted employee. The scope of the debate was wide - from zero to 50 per cent. Together in the commission, as a result of discussions, we stayed at 30 percent of the daily subsistence allowance. Three proposals were received for the second reading of the draft law. 1. - a proposal from Members Edmunds Teirumnieks and Ilze Indricksones. They offer to remain at zero interest for the employee. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U39	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the motion submitted by Members Teirumnieks and Indricsones! Please, let's vote! For - 19, for - 45, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U40	2. - a proposal from Members Edmunds Teirumnieks and Ilze Indricksones. Expresses the fifth paragraph of Article 14.2 of the draft law as follows: “The employer shall not be obliged to pay to the posted employee the daily subsistence allowance provided for in the laws and regulations governing reimbursement of mission expenses, unless otherwise provided for in the employment contract or collective agreement.” This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U41	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Teirumnie and Indrickson Members... Colleagues! There are still Members who have applied for a debate. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U42	Good morning, colleagues! I'd like, though, maybe... a few words in addition to what the commission representative has already said in connection with this proposal. I call, however, for this proposal to be supported in the context of the fact that our employers, with the introduction of the new requirements of the European Union, are actually obliged to pay equivalent remuneration to that of the Member State to which they are sending their workers. This means, for example, that when working in Germany, we have to pay the German employee's salary to our Latvian employee. This proposal provides that, if there is no agreement or agreement in the collective agreement, it could be said that by already hiring a staff member in the other way, then you may not pay any extra travel money, because if we say that there is an obligation to cover the entire travel money or even that 30 per cent, still equivalent salary... then, in any case, the Latvian businessman will choose to bend his employees to the country, not to take his own from Latvia, because that would be more competitive with other businessmen in that country, because otherwise labour costs are more expensive and he is not competitive. This means that we will encourage our companies that will work in other Member States of the European Union to raise their employees in those countries. They could also be Latvians who already live there permanently, as good Poles or arrivals from third countries. And in fact, our businessman will not take his employees from Latvia, because it is very disadvantageous for him and he will not be able to compete with labour costs for other European companies. However, I call for thought to be given to and support this proposal, because we comply with the European requirement that we set an equivalent remuneration, but this section is already a little bit of our perseverance. So I am calling for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U43	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what can be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U44	On behalf of the Commission, there was still a long discussion on this. This puts the worker in an unequal situation. That is why the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U45	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Teirumnie's and Indrickson's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 15, for - 55, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U46	Okay. 3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Changes to the transitional provisions shall be made. It is therefore necessary to supplement the transitional provisions with a section which states that, in the case of the transfer of workers to the international road transport sector, until... the transitional provisions are extended until the regulatory provisions have been transposed from a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The proposal was supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U48	No further proposals were received for the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law. Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U49	I'm calling! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to Labour Law" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! For - 90, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U50	Good morning, colleagues! Thus, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. Five proposals have been received. Proposal No 1...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U51	Mr. Eglitis, we don't see you!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U52	I don't know...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U53	Try to check that the camera is shifted!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U54	So, yeah... ‘Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions’. Five proposals. 1. - a proposal from Members Stein, Bondar and Bauman. Provision is made for officials of state and municipal institutions to voluntarily waive remuneration by informing the institution, and this type of funding would be paid into the budget of the Ministry of Health. And only a section that exceeds the minimum wage could be abandoned. The budget and financial (tax) commission does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U55	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U56	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! During the next year's review of the state budget, some high-ranking state officials initiated a specific competition, which first and next will reduce or freeze their salary. The opposition went even further, proposing that high state officials pay the minimum wage next year. Minimizing wants to go further than a snowball. Personally, I'm sceptical that the motivation for this proposal was generosity, solidarity... or, however, populism, because the financial benefits of this step are rather limited. According to my estimates from the Ministry of Finance - almost 100,000 euros. The remuneration of most public officials or senior public officials is composed, by law, of a fixed and variable part, where the variable part is linked to the average wage in the corresponding economic area in the previous year. This means that wages can change both up and down every year. In my opinion, this is right and fair and this system should not be damaged. I believe that, in times of peace and, in particular, of crisis, we will all be helped more by the fact that officials at both high and all other levels will do their job well and professionally, not by the race of public officials in less than the competition. However, if the majority of the Saeima has firmly decided that officials should be given the opportunity to give up their salary, for whatever reason, we have a good proposal with colleagues in the political group, how to make it easier to do so, leaving this decision to officials themselves rather than politicians - it would be more correct and fair than the Saeima to amend the law every time politicians want to please voters for populist or other reasons and show that we take away something. The essence of our proposal is, firstly, to extend the range of public officials who can give up part of their salary by keeping a minimum, voluntary - starting with the President of Latvia, ending with the rapporteur at the Ministry or the municipality, and secondly, to simplify the way in which this is done so that everyone who wants to do so has the opportunity to show solidarity comfortably and simply without the Saeima having to vote on it. We also propose that the money that will be saved in this way be put into the budget of the Ministry of Health. Dear colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal, but before the vote I call on you all to give an honest answer to the question to yourself - do you really want the country to be run by officials with reduced or minimum wages during the fatal virus pandemic? Is it reasonable, in this time of ignorance, danger and stress, to enable people who make decisions on millions of valuable purchases, on restrictions on freedom and on other measures that depend on the health and life of us and our loved ones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U57	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U58	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues, colleagues! Last Friday, when the Commission debated this draft law, the lack of rational arguments for such action was striking. There were many emotions, inconsistent approaches, different salary ceilings, which take into account factors. For some, for others, no. Even a very serious state institution such as the State Audit Office encouraged to freeze its salary at a time when the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission had finished its work and the Saeima had already decided on the state budget at final reading. The question arises: where were all these representatives at first reading of the budget? It was an opportunity for all who wanted to give up their share of remuneration. A high-quality bill could have been drawn up. The President of Latvia also sent his letter lately. These institutions are certainly familiar with the budgetary process. As a result, the current draft law creates unequal treatment between different groups of officials. That is wrong. At the moment, the law does not explicitly state the possibility for state and municipal employees to voluntarily give up their remuneration, and we and our colleagues offer it. It is not enough to offer your salary or share of your salary for charity, a voluntary opportunity for everyone to give up. The current scope of the law is very wide - more than 20 groups of officials and employees, starting with the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers, the President of Latvia, the State Audit Office, the Ombudsman’s Office, ending with industry supervisors, municipalities, port boards and judicial institutions. I call for an end to the demonisation of only narrow groups, but to give everyone the right to decide. In addition, the Commission proposed improvements to the wording by providing that staff members who have renounced their share of the remuneration or the remuneration may withdraw such a request at any time, but the majority of the commission rejected such an incentive. I would also like to mention that, until now, we have been able to observe the decline in public administration. Unreasonably, there are arguments that public administration... the size of the public administration. As the director of the State Chancellery, Citskovskis, pointed out this spring, over three years the state administration has decreased by three thousand people - about seven percent. I would also like to remind you that the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government welcomed the planned reform of the remuneration system in public administration in the spring. We must allow this reform to take place. Such initiatives do not contribute to this reform process. By proposing the financial means saved in this way to be included in the budget of the Ministry of Health - this would be symbolic support for health care and true solidarity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U59	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U60	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues! I, for my part, call for this proposal not to be supported for two main reasons. First. It is truly populist and, in my opinion, it is the only objective of this, not to promote solidarity in public administration, but to try to discredit the idea of not increasing the remuneration of state officials next year. I would like to remind you that this was the proposal of the opposition: to freeze wages, not to increase representation costs at a time when income is falling rapidly for a very large part of society. Our proposal was not to reduce salaries for senior officials - where else to the minimum wage level! - because it could really motivate people to work and significantly increase the risks of corruption. The fact that the principle of solidarity is now being used in the reasoning behind this proposal is, in my opinion, also quite dubious, because, in general, we also see from previous practice that this political power, as well as the Members, has such a peculiar understanding of solidarity. I will just point out one example that one of the first acts of political power in the Saeima was voted in favour of reducing the solidarity tax. In fact, in the draft budget for next year, when discussions were held on the Solidarity Tax Act, no argument was heard about the fact that the recipients of high wages should not be subject to a reduction in the solidarity tax. This was done again, while substantially increasing the tax burden of the small regime for taxpayers. There is nothing to do with solidarity; this is a very populist proposal. Even the arguments... In my opinion, we heard in the Commission: on behalf of at least the first speech, someone obviously wrote before Members. The second argument. I have also mentioned in part: if we are going to reduce so much wages for those working in public administration at the moment, this will significantly increase the risks of corruption. But that will be the reason if such a norm is adopted to really start such an unstoppable race in public administration and to put enormous pressure on officials - to reduce the wage to the minimum wage - and it will now be a real victory for any populist force that will also exert public pressure on officials. I think that anyone who is currently in a much less acceptable position in public administration and who has a higher salary than the national average will feel a great moral tension to reduce this salary. That is not the aim. I would see any populist opposition force proposing such proposals, but not a coalition party, which has a duty to ensure the stability of the work of the public administration. So that I call, for my part, not to support this proposal without study, to remain subject to regulation which, it seems, would be possible for the majority to agree by freezing the salaries of senior officials next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U61	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U62	Good morning, dear colleagues! In general, it is necessary to agree with Dana Reizniece–Ozola. She explained this proposal quite correctly, but there were a number of facts here against it. Some errors were made by previous reasoning on the proposal. One of these is, for example, the need to make large procurement decisions. In fact, decisions are taken not by these persons, but by the procurement commission in particular. But in general, why this proposal is not yet to be supported and why wages should be frozen at all. In fact, during the crisis, it is people with lower incomes who lose their jobs, while those with higher incomes retain more or less jobs. As a result, (economically it has proved) the average wage is rising during the crisis - that is such a paradox. It happens that many people remain unemployed or without income - the average wage is actually rising, and therefore the officials here also find that the salary should be indexed upwards. I think that is not really right. Thus, wage freeze, let us say, suspension of growth, would be something to support. And another fact. If, for example, every official can now withdraw as much as he wishes from his salary, the question is who will carry out administration, how much, when and why he refuses to pay. I don't really know if they're going to have the funds in the end... It will be necessary to pay those savings to the accounting officers to administer it all. That is why I am calling for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U63	Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U64	Good morning, colleagues! The remuneration of public officials shall be interconnected. There is a system in which one travels, while another freezes, becomes domino effect and hits many. Amateurs in public administration have been established in the context of equivalent professional posts in specific sectors. They are moving up and down, up and down in our country's economy. By attracting individual levels of civil servants' salaries, we risk making public administration a place where professionals in the sector do not come to work, and we cannot afford to come to work. It is already difficult to find suitable candidates for high positions in public administration. After every unsuccessful competition, we all shake our shoulders, extend our eyes and wonder why highly qualified professionals do not come to work for public administration. Having listened carefully to both the statements of the positions and the opposition, to the budgetary process and to the Thursday and Friday long sittings, we must conclude that we have all marked a lack of capacity in public administration. This draft law will increase this lack of capacity. No matter how good the political slogan may seem, the freezing of officials' salaries is not the solution. With this amendment, colleagues are proposing a way in which officials can show their solidarity with individual groups in society on an individual basis, without undermining the common system. This will allow everyone to make their own decision, talk about this decision in society, boasting in different audiences, but with individual decisions we will not at least interfere with the remuneration system in the country. And, of course, the positive side effect - let us put savings into the health budget. I call on you to support this amendment and allow officials to express themselves individually, but during the debate I call on all of you to consider whether we should not, however, vote against the draft law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U65	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U66	Good morning, colleagues! I will immediately reflect on Vita Anda Steel's presentation. Well, sorry, Mrs. Steel, what domino effect?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Your colleague just explained that it is symbolicly 100 thousand euros. Rather, we could talk about the domino effect of the fact that the State does not pay out the full cut-off benefits. There is a domino effect, which has a very profound impact on the economy. Excuse me, what kind of contests? Do we have competitions for ministerial posts? We have competitions for the parliamentary secretaries? Everything is clear there: the ruling coalition means who will be the Minister and who will be the Parliamentary Secretary. For the eye... The fact that someone has expanded their eyes is that, here we have no competition for some position, 10 candidates, but only one or two, for example. You know, I could say that more society has spread its eyes when the public administration made decisions that have a very negative impact on economic and social life, and does not bear any responsibility at all - neither political nor financial, let alone criminal responsibility. That's what surprises our society. And the last one. Krista Baumane, full respect, but the opposition has never proposed to reduce the ministerial salary to the minimum monthly salary. People had asked for it, and if it is necessary to prove it, I will show you a lot of comments and letters, where people are asking you to do this. The opposition's request, as Dana Reizniece-Ozola rightly pointed out, was to leave the salaries of ministers and parliamentary secretaries at the same level as in 2020. Just like we did ourselves, Members of the Saeima, with regard to our salaries. It is a pity that, for the time being, this decision is only for 2021, but this bill and its orientation is an example of the fact that the position and opposition could work very constructively together. I understand the opinion of the public, because the main thing in this matter was... And Mr. Stein is... It is the speed of response to the public opinion, when people properly measure their public opinion, for example, both the Presidential Chancellery and the Auditor General... I think the State Audit Office in this case focuses on its conscience, for which I also thank them, and I hope that the State Audit Office will perform a function that unfortunately cannot be performed by the state administration itself, so that the actions of the public administration more correspond to those expressed by the majority of Latvian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U67	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U68	Thank you. Colleagues! Unfortunately, it must be admitted that this proposal is truly populist from colleagues and contains elements of the show. I therefore ask the other colleagues not to support this. If we are talking about a high-quality, efficient and well-functioning public administration, then we have shortcomings in this area, to put it mildly. I would say that we have systemic deficiencies and there are no problems. And why? Because, first of all, if we look at the budget lines, we will see that in 2021, billions of EUR 272 million of total expenditure is to be set aside for remuneration. And in the state budget it is 11.8 per cent of total expenditure. Now, if we look at the macro-economic and budgetary financial accounts, then we will see that, every month, the report on wage growth also indicates that the highest wages remain in the public sector, where they were, for example, in October, EUR 1160. This is about salaries and funding for the employees working in the public administration. Another problem. Of the 21 small public administrations operating in the previous period, there was a reduction, if I remember precisely, of only one, and it was reduced by adding another public authority to keep the number of officials in practice. Another point noted and pointed out by colleagues in their discussions is that low pay is a problem in the search for high officials. You know, I asked the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission... during Mr Citskovsky's time, could not it be that the direct political motives and political pressure are the reason for the possible rotation of high officials or the problem of finding the official concerned, and yes, the answer was positive. Indeed, the political aspect and political pressure are one of the reasons why senior officials operating in the public administration may refuse to perform their duties or do not want to tender, and therefore should not be searched... the remuneration of our weak or inefficient public administration system, because... One more moment. If we are moving towards the Scandinavian model, there is a fixed component of permanent remuneration in Sweden as a basic component and no premium for officials after that - as we use it - is not paid extra. What does that mean? That means that it's just... if the public administration manipulates loyalty or unloyalty or close or uncomplicated civil servants, with a variable component, and its variable component is its component, which also provides a politically loyal and relevant official, then there also lies its problems. And you don't have to mix the causes with the consequences and consequences with the causes. A stable system and a competent public administration must be created from the outset, which is adequately remunerated with a permanent component. And if you're now playing games for a municipality or other officials to give up, it's not prohibited even now if there's such a wish. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U69	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U70	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Christa, Martyn, you didn't make such a proposal! Well, you didn't play on that side of the field! You will not have to make such proposals, because you first entered the position... to the position of those people who want to show that they are the right readers of this situation and know that at this moment, it is precisely at this point that these pay matters must be abandoned. Only one grief. Last year did the same thing, and what? Today is a day of greater solidarity than last year. And what if tomorrow is a day of greater solidarity than today? Oh, my God! You also put forward a proposal, the opposition field... Because they can only say that someone does not give up. This proposal allows the opposition to waive its remuneration to the minimum wage. They can now go and refuse. Well, this is a welcome proposal! This proposal is to put an end to hypocrisy, the hypocrisy we have. And that's what people like. Then each of us could make his own decisions, each of us would have his own responsibility for his own decisions, and he would not have to make decisions about others. Colleagues, I call on you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U71	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U72	Highly respected colleagues - especially those who are so strongly in favour of maintaining wages - at least to maintain the pace of wage growth for those working in the public administration! That is, of course, very impressive. I am sure that those working in public administration will appreciate this concern. And that's not... This is not wrong. I, of course, share some of your arguments that this is some kind of competition for what will declare the biggest reduction in wages and with this will try to win the voter's sympathy. It would be interesting to see to what it will ultimately lead. But, my colleagues, this is a little bit of something else. It would be good, colleagues, if you were just as passionate to stand up for the wages of people working in the private sector, so that you would stand up just as passionately for the support of those entrepreneurs who have suffered for reasons beyond their control in the corrupt crisis. Where were you, colleagues, at the time when, for example, the Director-General of the State Revenue Service was almost excited about a person who would receive a monthly retirement allowance in the amount of some euro? Where have you been? I do not remember in any way that you would have debated this or put forward any proposals here in the Saeima. Where were you when we put forward proposals last spring to increase the amount of cut-off benefits? Zoom to the size that now... which your government has now decided on. For your part, there was complete silence. The fact that people were paid those tiny idle benefits, you were completely okay while public... salaries were fully maintained for those working in the public administration. So here's the question, colleagues, about how much... How much do you observe this “One Law – One Justice for All”. Well, if you've dried up, that your constituents are those who work in public administration, and that's why you stand mainly on their income, well, it's already, of course, understandable attitude and political strategy. But this is in no way in line with the principle of "One Law - One Truth for All", colleagues. And it's not a secret to no one that you're just as passionate about the income of people who work, as I said, in the private sector. The other thing, colleagues. Do not forget why we are in such a situation today. Of course, the opposition's proposal to freeze the salaries of two or a year's ministers, parliamentary secretaries, in any way, would not have received any support. Because we all know that the opposition proposals here are mainly... 99,9 per cent shall be automatically rejected without any assessment. Let us remember why we are in this situation today. Thanks to the Members of the New Conservative Party, who suddenly decided that they wanted to submit such a proposal - to freeze the salaries of the Minister, the Parliamentary Secretaries. Why did they make such a proposal? Because during the budget review... All of this during the eight-day debate - have we seen... How many parliamentary secretaries have we seen and heard? Have we seen or heard the officials of the parliamentary commissions, the chairmen? Have we heard a great deal of those Members of the coalition who worked on that commission? That indignation, as I remember, came from the New Conservative Party to some Members from the fact that the parliamentary (forgive me, with a few exceptions, especially at the Ministry of Culture) secretary of no one ministry, almost nobody, was prepared to defend this budget. And also, colleagues, if our government ministers have enough time to publicly handle their relations in social networks during their working hours, then perhaps not so much they are working to deal with this crisis and can tolerate this small, small increase in wages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U73	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U74	Hello, community! Hello, colleagues! From today's discussion, I can most agree with Vita Anda Steel, who said the following words in his speech: "If one goes up, the others also get up." That is something that I can certainly agree to. But I cannot agree with the rest of this discussion under any circumstances, because all these proposals are purely populist proposals. The most realistic populist proposals! Dear friends, every one of us, starting with the President of Latvia, continuing with the Prime Minister, further with Members, officials and everyone else, can donate all our wages today, all of them in full - but you are voting against large families, against entrepreneurs! - You can do it every day, but you don't. And that's one thing. I call on you to donate your wages. I've done this in my Member's career, fully donated my salary to the last cent, and there doesn't need any law, you can do it today. This will be a much greater public benefit than these populist amendments, where, if one goes up, everyone else will. So maybe we will stop doing populism and start defending the interests of Latvian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U75	Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Pause) Once again, the name of Member Viktor Valainis. ( Pause) The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U76	Dear colleagues, Yes, in my view, this proposal is very, very, very, very populist from the point of view that those who put forward this proposal, as we see, have not at any time been able to give up either one premium, even compensation, or even service transport. We know that Mr Dūris has received his 224 euros in October, Mr Stein has received his 723 euros in October. It's all right, for the rest, it's a little less. Currently, the law allows a Member to refuse compensation, the law does not oblige the Saeima Member to receive... may waive these allowances. We know that there have been cases in the Saeima where a Member has given up the bonus in respect of his work - the running of a political group - with other examples. Sadly, no one followed this example. If we are talking about the applicants themselves, they should probably also have set an example of how they would like others to act. At present the law does not prohibit anything, the law does not prohibit either the waiver of various bonuses or the withdrawal of wages. We know that we also had the President of Latvia, who gave up his salary and donated it to charity. To you too, honourable colleagues from Development/About! , no one prevents even your entire salary from donating for noble purposes. And we're just going to be happy about that, too. If we are talking about the other things, about the fact that, well, you think ministers were not allowed to freeze their wages, we remember that you fought very, very intensely against this bill, you were practically the only ones in the Saeima who opposed... Then we know how your ministers are never enough. We know your ministers who, even with all their wages, are still looking for a way to find a pass from the Old Town. So here, I think those colleagues from Development/About! who want to moralise now - look, dear, look at you, look at your own ministers and look at your own life... how you are now in the Saeima. Look at how you have fought to have an increase in party funding, and how you are living with that increase. Therefore, colleagues, I think that this proposal, such as trying to provoke Members to some vote, to some kind of debate, does not give you glory. So that's... In general, such a proposal does not solve anything in substance, nor does it prevent anything from happening. Until now, no law prevents the waiver of bonuses and wages. It's just as good as... whether, probably, such a disruption of air and an attempt to justify your previous vote, a number of votes against the freezing of ministers' salaries. Let me remind you that ministers' salaries, I understand, under this law have been frozen only for one year, contrary to Members' remuneration, which has been frozen on the entire term. So it probably doesn't even make any sense here... It seems to me that you did not even make sense to submit this proposal. I had to start with myself, with my particular example: to give up all the premiums, to give up the political groups' transport, to the transport of the committee leaders, to the political groups' heads' transport, to give up all the premiums that are being paid to you at the moment - for running the political groups, for running the parliamentary groups, for the rest. Illustrate with your noble example, and then we will see how clean and crystal clear you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U77	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U78	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I think that this proposal has not worked well, because instead of working on a single remuneration law and establishing uniform principles in public administration, this proposal provides for a reduction in liability. Your proposal provides that around us have already done everything, voted, and that then the officials themselves appreciate their work. It's a mess of responsibility. Politicians should be very strict in themselves as far as remuneration policy is concerned. I cannot definitively agree with such a proposal, because I think it is... It's simple, I understand... You were thinking of playing such a certain populism, but in essence, there was an irresponsible proposal that simply... Politicians want to take off their responsibilities instead of... Especially in these times, responsibility has to be assumed! I therefore call for the vote to be taken against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U79	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U80	Colleagues, I would like to ask you to read the whole proposal to the end, because this proposal contains two fundamental nuances. Basically, we are debating only this amount of remuneration, but the other thing is what we are proposing to do further with that money: that is, these Members are proposing to direct the money to the Ministry under the supervision of their political power, so that they can have more money to suffocate. And we know how this ministry, how responsible it is, how competent it is to deal with money - then you don't have enough money for mask purchases or anything else... You say that, well, what are you coming here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Come and try to make a circus here! I call for this proposal not to be supported. Really, if someone wants to, he has all the money available... And if you want to really help the health sector, you better do it directly! Help those who need help! But if we let it through the Ministry of Health, it's a huge barrack and an irresponsibility that happens there... In my opinion, this is not the right step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U81	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U82	Yeah, thank you. This proposal was rejected and, above all, because no obstacles were identified that would prevent public officials and local government officials from making all or part of their salaries available at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U83	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the motion tabled by Members Stein, Bondar and Bauman! Please, let's vote! - 22, 70, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. So let us start looking at the next proposal after a break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U84	Dear colleagues, We shall continue to discuss the agenda of the second remote emergency session on 18 December. See the draft laws “Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U85	2. - a proposal from Members Petravičas, Zakatistov, Pugas, Kursītes, Ģirgena, Možvillo, Pucen and Gaidan. It is planned to freeze salaries as from 2021 for the chairperson of the municipal council, the vice-president of the municipal council, the chairman of the municipal council committee, the vice-chair of the municipal council committee, the members of the municipal council, the Prime Minister and so on. So all of you have to freeze your salary. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U86	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U87	Good morning, honourable colleagues! This draft law provides for the freezing of salaries from 1 January 2021 until 31 December 2021, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, to the chairman of the municipal council, the vice-chairman of the municipal council, the chairman of the municipal council committee, the vice-chairman, members of the municipal council, the Prime Minister, a member of the Prime Minister, ministers and parliamentary secretaries. At a time when the country's economy is falling rapidly as a result of a pandemic, the revenue of the country is falling, at a time when businesses are suffering and many people remain unemployed, it would be unacceptable to raise remuneration for political officials: not only for ministers, parliamentary secretaries, but also for municipal political persons - for the President of the Council, for vice-chairman and for committee heads and vice-chairmen. We are all responsible for how quickly we will overcome the pandemic and when the economy will be able to return to the usual rails, as well as for the support that citizens expect and will receive from us. We are not asking for a reduction in wages or a minimum wage, we are asking for a freeze. Everyone must also feel the responsibility of solidarity towards the people of their own district, towards the people of their own country. And this is definitely not a situation where we can afford to raise our pay and watch each other live with a break-off or unemployment benefit. Please support this proposal, and let us be in solidarity with our people, with our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U88	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U89	Hello, chair of the sitting! Colleagues! This proposal. The main thing is to understand what the current situation is. The main thing here is to highlight exactly what concerns the chairman of the municipal council, the committee leaders, their vice-presidents, the vice-presidents and, of course, it is very right that you have noticed this, that there may also be, if I do not make a mistake, a five-percent increase here. But what you may not have noticed or forgotten is that next year the budget cut is 90 million. And there this solidarity is already included. It would be difficult for me to imagine the substance of this proposal at all, because there will hardly be any municipal manager, deputy or anything else who, in these circumstances, is drawing up the budget for next year... which would, at all events, require such a provision. It is difficult for me to imagine how you could now suddenly go by local government leaders and decide this maximum rate. But if it were to be decided, it would be a decision of the council, and then the city manager would have to explain it to the residents of the municipality. I support this proposal, but I also call for thought to be given to the fact that, at present, for municipal officials, this rate is not static, it is variable. And each council has the maximum ceiling, and each council has the range in which it can decide. At present, the vast majority of local government officials do not use this maximum rate at all, far from the maximum rate. That is why I think it is very good that you have noticed this. I just ask you to remember that there are also local government officials. I call on you to remember that you reduced 90 million to municipalities. And really, in such a situation it would be very difficult to imagine which of the municipal managers without any special justification... which council would go and decide on wage supplements for municipal managers. Yeah, it's from my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U90	Name to Member Artus Neminis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U91	Yeah, well, we just heard the head of the municipal union, I understand that. Mr. Valaiņš is still the leader of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia - as it may be called. Before I heard... I didn't understand the Minister, the Members... who was the rapporteur or defender for this proposal. But, Ramona Petraviča, you don't have to laugh at what you said? It's a rhetorical question. Because I watched you speak on Latvian Television recently in the programme “Today’s Question”, which is right after “Panorama”, and there was the top for the show that the community’s morbidity in the homes is very high, how it can be, and who is responsible for it. You have answered that the people who work in these homes are responsible for many other works as well. They are also responsible for the cohabitee's plague in these homes. And then you tell me, Ramona, how many chairs are you sitting on? Let's read it out loud: you are a Member of the Saeima, you are Minister for Welfare, you are the Head of the Parliamentary Group of Members with... Head of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union... There's a group like that. In short, it doesn't happen, because all journeys are banned, but you're there. The main language is English. Do you have that? I think in the 10 ball system, three. Let us go further, then you are still a Member of the National Security Commission, as well as a Member of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. And how can you combine everything now and work in a high-quality way? This is the rhetoric that emerged from the question raised by the journalist in the Latvian public media about why the society is in the homes. At the moment, when you hear your argument that local government leaders, vice-presidents, committee managers may need to reduce their pay. It's quite populistly raging over the big one. We have decided in the Saeima that the remuneration of ministers, the President of Latvia, the Prime Minister, the parliamentary secretaries is frozen. Now you're leaving the municipality... all in one soup, so to say, absolutely all the officials. Put it there again... Why not police officers, let's take it? Everyone, everyone, who's... working in the public sector, all in there. Why not? I think it's clear... I don't know, in any municipality... I am not just talking about something like Rāviņa or Lemberga, either, about large municipalities, but there are also small municipalities. And its wages, in my opinion, are there, well, EUR 500 at best. Well, that man works there. All right, he can combine the positions, he can still work there, perhaps in one of his companies and so on, but it's not important. It's just a nonsense that you're offering here right now - to put everything in one... local governments, ministers and everything else. And above all, as I said a long time ago, three years ago when we stood by Ramon and said, "The country must start with itself!" Just an example, Ramona! Now you're on four chairs... Five... By figuating, standing on them, you say that probably the community is so large in the Republic of Latvia, because people do... several works. What example do you set in the respectable, Ramon Petraviča? I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U92	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U93	Dear colleagues, good morning! Well, I have to start by saying that this bill, tabled by Members of several coalition parties, is not... It does not aim to engage in any populism or subsidization. The draft law was submitted on the basis of a request made by a number of public officials. And we're not just going to talk... So when it comes not only to the draft law, but also to one of the next, where it comes to the State Audit Office, the draft law was presented... We received a request from officials from another specific public authority that please do not raise our salary. Our job... It is simply our job to meet this request. That is why, for example, there are also proposals on the State Audit Office. But when it comes to this proposal, where it comes to municipal officials, I must say that in local authorities... A municipal member is such an interesting position. Thus, unlike Members of the Saeima, municipal members may combine the position with any other profession. It is also practically possible to be on the boards of SIA, which means the company, and there is practice to deal with anything. This is also reflected to some extent in the remuneration normally received by municipal members. Given that I have had that happiness and experience, and this hardening was obtained by fighting against state forces in the Riga City Council... There... There are also municipal Members there, well, those who are queue Members, as we were, do not, in fact, get any particularly high wages. If I am not mistaken, Riga City Council Member's salary was about 700 euros. In other regions, which are smaller, wages are even lower, because municipalities simply cannot afford to maintain such a large wage fund. And in this case, perhaps the proposal is on these maximum levels. But there's another thing here. These ceilings could and should not be raised to the extent that municipal officials could be paid the salary there. But I have to remind you that the municipal member... Local governments are democratically elected public administrations, where people have gone and voted for certain Members, and also expect appropriate economic decisions, such as those that please them in the local government. For example, one of the municipalities of Pieriga has already acted and decided, so these Members have gathered together in the council and decided not to raise their salaries next year, leaving the current level. Therefore, it would be only logical that, pending the next municipal elections next year, citizens would demand economic decisions from their municipal members and also municipal members would consider making such and similar decisions at the meetings of the Council. This can be done even today, and it can be done all the time and can still be done on any working day before the end of the year. Since I am calling, first of all, not to support this proposal, because this proposal does not, by its very nature, actually solve... not achieve what should be achieved. Secondly, I call on democratically elected officials... the municipalities themselves decide whether they want to, say, freeze salaries or not. Knowing that there is already an example in Latvia, where it has happened, this can be done by decision of the Council. So that I call on you not to deal with populism, to answer only... support those proposals where the officials themselves have asked (ministers, parliamentary secretaries have also asked, the State Audit Office, the President of Latvia) and move forward. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U94	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U95	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! I would, however, like to return to the very nature of the proposal, on which we are really debating. And that is - so freeze wages, if I reword it, to the President of the Council, the Vice-President of the Municipality Council and other persons, committee leaders and so on. Colleagues, these are elected officials who are not already elected by the citizens, but by the district Members. A lot has been said earlier about the fact that municipalities will now have less money and so on... But let us not forget, colleagues, that the municipality is also entitled to make political decisions, which may lead to a higher budget, may become smaller. In this case, I would like to mention, for example, the real estate tax credit, which one municipality uses, for example, 90 per cent, while the other, however, looks at the social groups benefiting from the discount. As a result of this political decision, the municipality's budget is either smaller... a smaller balance is left, or it is in turn used in a more reasonable way. With regard to those who should reduce their remuneration, however, I believe that this proposal should certainly be supported. I think that we can not always hope for very high integrity and morals of the Council officials, given that it is now clear that administrative territorial reform will continue, and we will soon see a different national map, and these small regions, where we could count... where there are practically only a thousand inhabitants, there will finally be no more. Both the population and the territorial principle will be consolidated and the budgets will therefore also be larger. That is why such a temptation - not to vote for yourself - or, to be precise, to be wrong with a reduction in wages is very great. With this proposal, we impose an obligation of solidarity by law, I would say, both with the President of Latvia and with the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, who have also asked themselves not to increase their remuneration. Here I want to call the Minister for the Interior, in that regard the Minister for Economic Affairs and also the Ministers for Welfare who have asked for it. I would like to say that it is very important, however, to set an example. One Member has already spoken here about starting with himself. In this case, several ministers have begun with themselves, the President of Latvia has started with himself, and I believe that the members of the county council, the chairmen in particular, the vice-chairmen and so on, would not be the time to think about raising salaries. Society in separate layers... individual types of occupation... people are very difficult to survive at the moment. I can mention in particular hotels, restaurants and, let us say, the service area as a whole, so I do not think that the time has come when we could leave such decisions to local governments, where the temptation not to reduce their remuneration will be so great, so we can do it right now with the force of law. Colleagues, I ask for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U96	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U97	Dear colleagues, When we talked about how Mr Feldman is fighting something, it is absolutely necessary to look at the results here. We have very often heard Mr Feldman constantly fighting against state forces. Let's see how these battles are over now. If we assume that the anti-State forces in Mr. Feldman's eyes are a party of "Conciliation", then this fight with the so-called anti-State forces has ended with Mr. Feldman's being the one who won the largest party financing in Latvia's history. Well done, Mr. Feldman, really! That is how you can continue to fight! If we are talking specifically about this proposal, then I would like to say yes, thank you to Mrs Petraviča for this proposal, I will also support it, but in general I have to say that it is really a pity that we are now, as we are taking a piece of it, now, these proposals. The government, by its very nature, should have included all these rules in the budget. I really have a lot of surprise at the fact that we must actually correct government mistakes at the moment because, knowing how difficult the period ahead is to be, do not think that for ourselves, and above all Mr Kariņš, the remuneration should be frozen, including for the rest of the political officials - well, I think the head of the government should, as I say... Well, the head of the stone government. Since I also believe that we must now try together to show solidarity with society, but at the same time I would like to remind you that, by reducing wages, i.e. by freezing wages, perhaps one hundredth of the problem is solved. You just show that you also understand the situation and that these wages should not climb, but it is already very, very... well too little. The fact that someone will have a lower salary or a lower salary does not mean that the people that that politician should take care of will get something more - no! And the problem is, in fact, that I would be the first person to suggest that we raise the ministers' salaries if we actually saw the result this year. If we saw that people had received cut-off benefits in time, if we saw that infection was limited in time, if we saw that hospitals were also prepared to fight infection in time, I would be the first to run and say that Viņķelis needed a higher salary - up to 20 thousand! But unfortunately this is not the case, and so we also see that no one deserves a wage supplement at the moment or, indeed, more. Therefore, there is already a problem that it will not be better for society to freeze wages. Yes, it will be a gesture of solidarity. Yes, maybe people will be a little less angry with politicians, they will not really be irritated by the fact that there is once again an increase in wages, but in general, a problem for every person who is still waiting for a cut-off allowance (some 200-300 euros) because he has no way to pay out some of the same communals - unfortunately this is not the case. I am very sorry that the head of government, too, will probably get this report - yes, he will also have no increase in wages - feeling that he has already solved the problem and that nothing has to be done anymore. In fact, for those people who are currently responsible for managing the crisis - I am talking specifically about politicians and not about officials who are doing more harm to society - I am talking about politicians who are now in close contact with society - who should sit 24/7 right now and think about how to help people. And think about how to mitigate this damage, which the officials and the secretaries of the state do. I am referring specifically to the crisis team that has done a very serious damage to society at the moment. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U98	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U99	Colleagues! Many are talking and calling for some examples of the fact that... The Minister or the President of Latvia is even called upon to give an example inviting him to give up his salary. Then I would really like to call on all those who are talking about it with themselves - whether it is a Member, whether it is a Minister, or whether it is the President of Latvia... I would remind you that Andris Bērziņš, who has done this, was the only person I know, an official, the highest official of the state - the President of Latvia, who did not ask the Saeima for any special regulation. He simply gave up his reward by offering it to the school from which he came. I think this is an example of how to really start with yourself, not doing such a certain populism. But with regard to this proposal - the difference between the officials who come and ask the Saeima to reduce something - is that this is about senior local government officials, that local governments have a maximum rate, but they do not have to comply with it. And, as I said in the previous speech, it would be difficult for me to imagine a municipality which, when drawing up the next year's budget - right now the municipalities are making the next year's budget - could decide that it does not apply to Members. This is precisely the case for local government leaders, their vice-presidents, committee leaders, vice-chairs, so that they may vote for any additional annexes to the Council President, its vice-chair or committee heads, their vice-chairs, in a situation where you have taken 90 million votes in the budget. This issue must be left under the direct responsibility of the local authorities. I will therefore call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U100	Name of Member Anita Muižniece. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U101	Hello, dear colleagues! At last, I have the feeling that, as soon as I see a proposal from a JPV LV Member, I have the kind of lamps that light up, that special attention should be paid to them. This time, too, as I listened carefully to the debate, I heard from Mr Nemir, sorry, completely empty talk about how we need to have solidarity, to set an example knowing that this same Member receives a premium for the Central Land Commission... on the President of the Commission. I'll remind you that the Central Land Commission... We've got this... Well, haven't managed to eliminate it, so someone had to be elected. If I correctly estimate that it is Member Nemiro who currently receives around four thousand wages, then that is really an empty embarrassment. And freeze the wages in the municipality... Mr Valaiņš said quite rightly that, unlike ministers, parliamentary secretaries, there is a rate of the President of Latvia's base, but the coefficient is the maximum wage. The municipality itself shall decide whether to apply this maximum or any lower coefficient. In fact, even if this proposal were to be supported, then that part... and is the majority of municipalities where the maximum coefficient is not used, no one would, in principle, also prevent the municipality from applying it, and its wages could also be technically raised. I do not really believe that a municipality will do so in these circumstances. So we end, please, with populism, we end up making absolutely pointless proposals that do not solve anything just once again in their public channels to blow their feathers. Let's get started, my friends! And by solidarity, start with yourself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U102	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U103	Thank you, colleagues. It seems to me that, in the most important context with this proposal, and also the following, it is important to understand where the state budget comes from. Consequently, the financial resources in the budget, which are being redeployed by members of the Saeima or by members of the local government, come from the taxpayers. Taxpayers are people who are established or engage in any other economic activity, or payers of patent fees and so on, who earn and provide budgetary income by paying taxes to the State. Now we are in an economic downturn. We are in a crisis situation. Several people don't work, several companies are idle. People's job opportunities, as well as income opportunities, are reduced or completely... no longer exists. What are we doing as Members? It is our duty now not only to take care of ourselves or those working in the public administration, or of the members of the local government, but also to make sure that the funds that could be provided... to provide support for those people who cannot work at the moment because we have imposed strict restrictions on the country and on us Members. And it would only be logical if people who are now in a critical situation and unable to receive income received support - not only morally or financially, but also emotionally - that civil servants, people working in public administration, Members and Ministers solidarity with the part of society that is currently in a very, very difficult financial situation. I am also asking the chairman of the Saeima to draw attention to the terminology used in his speeches by the Members of the New Conservative Party, and to the fact that they also move during the discussion to personal insults against other people and colleagues. Please avoid further this type of terminology and behavioural pattern in the Saeima discussions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U104	Name to Member Aigar Bikšem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U105	Hello, honourable Members! I wanted to say that, in my opinion, the municipalities are sovereign in their democratic essence and have the right to determine their remuneration. In my opinion, it would not be right for the Saeima to decide about municipal wages. I would also like to say that, in my opinion, during this time of crisis, no one is getting such fantastic wages to buy a home in Spain. This brings money back to society. It's another bought bread or coffee. I think that this proposal cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U106	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U107	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! As I have pointed out on several occasions, I have only recently come between you. I'll tell you a little story about my experience of where I come from and how salary is being raised for the municipal management. Next from a municipality with an annual budget of four million and a population of up to five thousand. Each year the State adopts the budget, and then within two months the municipality must adopt its own budget. As every year - and this was already common, especially in recent years - there were problems with market failure, with various difficulties, with cuts in money for municipalities. The trend started that the municipal administration always found an opportunity to increase its salary with the adoption of the budget, while employees promised: “Well, if the budget is good enough, we will raise the wages.” Such stories were several times, several years. Personally, as a member of the Council, he received 81 euros per month, while the Chairman of the Council (at least last year) received two thousand net wages plus, the deputy - as a percentage less, but also close to one and a half thousand. Did their activities improve the life of the municipality? I can say no. Unfortunately, these hosts in their country, as they have stood up in the last elections, have now led the municipality to have major problems with its own budget, there are major problems with various activities, which do not necessarily mean good governance. And there are several that are now... which I am currently in contact with. My colleague continues to fight against these unthinking decisions, with various fictional problems that have to be resolved suddenly, right away, while schools or kindergartens do not have real time and resources at this difficult time. What do I mean by that? Is it the law, is it any rule, but a lot of this... especially for the managers of small local governments, who have used the opportunity to increase their salaries from year to year and who have done so in good faith... I think that this proposal should be supported. The next thing I want to emphasise is that... I put my head in front of the heads of the local government who are really going, fighting for their people - I do not regret that they have an increase in wages, but most cases are where wage supplements are, to be honest, these people are not deserved. They are using both their political backs and any other way of getting to the wage supplement. So that I call on my fellow Members, however, to support this proposal. And once again, I thank those former colleagues, the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Council and, in particular, the Executive Directors, who are now having to take all the weight, but I would certainly call for support, and people will be able to appreciate it, especially on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U108	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U109	Hello, colleagues! I would like to continue by what our newly arrived colleague, Aigars Bikše, said, that the municipalities should be given the opportunity to be truly sovereign in power, because they are directly elected from among the population. My colleague, Viktors Valainis, has also stressed in his speech today that the law already in force in respect of municipal managers does not provide for strict access to the average... the average remuneration in the previous period, but the rate is set at ‘to’. Thus, the coefficient indicates the maximum remuneration, but the municipalities themselves have the possibility to set lower levels of remuneration. Colleagues, let us not forget that 2021 is the year of municipal elections. I think that this is precisely the psychological factor that will determine and will also show citizens how much municipal leaders are prepared to cooperate with local government citizens, with voters. Therefore, I believe that there is no reason to limit the sovereign power of local governments at this time, let us allow local governments to determine the level of remuneration of their executives, and then voters will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U110	I closed the debate. Is there any more to be added on behalf of the Commission? Mr. Eglish, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U111	Nothing will be added.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by Members Petravičas, Zakatistova, Pugas, Kursītes, Ģirgenas, Možvillos, Pucens and Geoidans! Please, let's vote! For - 17, for - 70, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U113	3. - the proposal from Members Feldman and Eglitis. It is planned to freeze salaries for the State Auditor General and the members of the Council of the State Audit Office for the period from 2021. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has been supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U114	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal from Members Feldman and Eglise! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U115	4. - The Commissioner's Gürgen's proposal. This is identical to the previous proposal. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U117	And Proposal No 5...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U118	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And... However, we are starting a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U119	Process... on the procedural question... what we supported in the past... So this is also "Members don't mind"? So it's supported? Which one is supported? You can simply ask us for some clarification from the Legal Office, that we have something legally wrong here... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U120	It's okay. The proposal has been supported and is almost analogous and clarifying the supported proposal. We shall continue to see the draft law, please. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U121	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Provides for the entry into force of the law. So the deadline is 1 January 2021. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U122	Members also support, but have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 78, for - 10, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U123	Yes, since this draft law has been granted urgency, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-21-PT13-2175-U124	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 81, it's against - 12, it's not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, We have therefore examined the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 18 December. Registration of the presence of Members is ongoing. It's over. Dear colleagues, We will continue to work after 15 minutes on the agenda of the third remote emergency session on 17 December 2020. See you in 15 minutes! ( Interruption)
