ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 15 October this year. Please, Members who work in the Chamber, arrange their computers so that they can work! Please add headphones to your computers! Please, all Members in the Chamber check that the headphones are connected to computers! Thank you, colleagues. We will begin to examine the agenda for the remote emergency session on 15 October this year. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Riga regional court Boris Geimans from the position of judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 October, the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Riga Regional Court Boris Geimans from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Boris Geiman, the judge of the Riga Regional Court, to be dismissed from office as a judge at his own wish from October 19, 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the dismissal of the judge Boriss Geimans from the office of judge of Riga Regional Court! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Linda Medne to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Linda Mednes to the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission we worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 750/Lp13). I will remind you of the purpose of the draft law. The aim is to lay down rules on the simplification of the application of value added tax in the field of e-commerce by providing an environment of fair competition at European Union level for all economic operators, regardless of their country of establishment, by extending the scope of the special VAT arrangements in force and by introducing a new special VAT regime for consignments of goods from third countries or third territories. 17 proposals were received. 1. - The Commissioner's Gürgen's proposal. It is envisaged to supplement Article 24 of the Act with the seventeenth paragraph as follows: ‘The reduced rate of duty of 12 per cent applies to public catering’. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U5	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U6	Hello, dear colleagues! I would say that this issue is not just about public catering, but about how we are going to support the business sector in general, because, as you know, the new restrictions have come into effect since Saturday and there will be the next wave of protest from businessmen, perhaps. However, I would like to point out that we already had enough time to prepare for this second wave. As we know, I have already made various proposals in the past on how we can support entrepreneurship, but so far they have not been heard. Even though an example of why this proposal has been made, because this reduced VAT would certainly have allowed economic operators not only to reduce prices but also perhaps to make some savings in the summer period, when there was still an influx of customers, so that we would not have to spend more on our budget... grant additional grants to the national budget. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Minister for Health, Viņķele, has, of course, publicly informed the entrepreneurs that it is possible to apply for support measures, but I would call on them not to mislead them, as no new support mechanisms have been put in place at present to promote further entrepreneurship. But I would also like to draw the Cabinet's attention to the fact that this second wave is inevitable and it is already necessary to make new decisions how to support entrepreneurs. This is one of my proposals to the Saeima, as we could do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U7	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U8	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We also call for our support for this proposal on the application of a reduced rate of value added tax. We called for this at the beginning of the Covid-19 crisis, because we believe that at least a fixed-term tax reduction would allow the catering industry to recover. At the moment, given that both the tourism sector has almost a complete stop, and the catering sector is therefore suffering, as it is also largely linked to the entry of foreign guests and restrictions in this area, the reduced VAT is certainly one of the desired support measures... perhaps even the best. In particular, we want to support this proposal because, until recently, representatives of the tourism sector visited the Tax Commission of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, and said that they had come with their proposals on how entrepreneurs can survive the winter period, when there are fewer natural (seasonal) customers, but this year, for example, this year, for example, offering vouchers to Latvian citizens so that they can spend them in local tourist establishments, catering companies, expanding the offer of “Latvian school bags” and similar ideas, which unfortunately have not gone through the Ministry of Finance or the joint government bundle, left only in the corridors of the Ministry of Economics. Since I also believe that, in this situation, the Saeima must take the initiative in its hands and offer support measures for its own part. This is one very concrete... I believe that one who also brings immediate benefits to entrepreneurs and will allow them to survive winter (also literally). Thank you to Mr. Girgen for your proposal. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U9	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U10	Dear colleagues, I have a request to each of you to ask myself the following questions: First. Is tourism in Latvia needed as such? Second. Is there a crisis in the tourism sector? Third. Has the government done its utmost to resolve this crisis in the tourism sector? Four. Has what the government does or does not do achieved its goal? I think the answer to the first question is quite clear. Unless you believe that this Covid-19 crisis is forever and that people will never travel again, then the tourism sector is needed. I think you have already confirmed this by your decisions to allocate more than EUR 280 million, directly or indirectly, to airBaltic, because it is clear that... If there is no future for the tourism sector in Latvia, then is it not clear who airBaltic needs to buy all those new aircraft that this airline needs at all? Second. Is there a crisis in the sector? The answer is absolutely clear - yes. As my colleague, Dana Reizniece–Ozola, and your colleagues working on the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, all can assure us that we had representatives of the tourism sector around a week ago and absolutely everyone in one voice said that there is a crisis in the sector and that what the government does if it does anything at all does is not solve this crisis. Consequently, this crisis in the tourism sector is unresolved for the moment and does not seem to be resolved in the near future. This specific offer is also something that could help to tackle the crisis in the tourism sector. It is an elemental economy that, by reducing VAT, we can reduce... impact on public catering prices, which will increase demand and turnover in the sector. You have very recently, my fellow Members, you, the majority, supported a reduction in the VAT rate on fruit and vegetables in this Saeima. As a result, the reduced rate of VAT as an instrument can help sectors, it is no longer a saint cow... in no way should it be done. Ask yourself: if the majority of the Saeima considered that this could help to increase the turnover of the fruit and vegetables sector, reduce the shadow economy and so on, why can you not also answer the question in the affirmative: could the reduction in the VAT rate have a similar effect on the tourism sector, including public catering? Also in view of the fact that this sector is currently in a deep crisis and in general to survival... the question is its survival. That is why I call on you, my fellow Members, to think with your head this time, because if the government continues - and there is nothing to suggest that it might not continue to do anything about the tourism sector either... because when the hotels, restaurants are shut down, people will start to lose jobs, you will have to remember, colleagues, these decisions that you will take today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U11	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U12	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. I think that, at last, maybe that moment has come, so that this long mutilated reduced VAT rate can be allocated to the restaurant industry. I'll remind you that already during the pre-election... At that time, if I am not mistaken, it was a restaurant “Liblioteka”, which consisted of representatives of all parties (the representatives of parties represented at the Saeima and not represented at the time), which signed a kind of memorandum for the industry, such as a promise that the VAT rate would be reduced by 12 per cent. I think we could actually go even further and cut to five, but well, we could start at least with some kind of charity gesture. I will call for support for this proposal by Mr Girgen, and I am pleased that this proposal comes directly from Mr Girgen, because Mr Girgen represents the coalition forming group. And one more thing. It is this week in Riga and perhaps elsewhere (in Riga definitely) will take place... The restaurant week is taking place. I would call all 100 people's servants... Our wages can... for our wages... Who else, if not the Members?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can easily afford to go to restaurants. So I would call everyone to have lunch every day before the end of the week in one of the... lunch, dinner at one of the restaurants in Riga. Look at that offer. We actually have something to be proud of in Latvia. The restaurant industry is one of them... the catering industry directly. So I'll call you... Well, before pressing the “ Against” or “Resist” button, think! An uneaten person is an angry man. People need to eat healthy, beautiful, also enjoy some good wine, and when this process takes place in the calm, beautiful and good atmosphere that the Latvian restaurants can offer, they will also have good thoughts. And... Well, yeah, I'm not gonna take longer. It's five minutes, but I've got three minutes. Colleagues, good morning, everyone! I very much hope for a productive day and many good decisions that we can probably take together today. So I'm going to call for support. Thank you, Kaspars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U13	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U14	Hello, colleagues! I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to Mr Ģirgens, who, unlike other colleagues in his group, may have consistently maintained that the VAT rate for catering should be reduced. We also remember that in the spring... At the end of the spring, the Ministry of Economics made such a proposal and we supported it as well. But again there was a government conversation, and again this initiative disappeared somewhere. Judging from the negotiations in the government that we heard very recently, a few days ago, so we have... Mr. Kariņš, we have a high jumper, and the Minister for Economics is a bullet grainer. Then we would urge them to hold on to their name, stick to their position, and put their heavy bullet further, relying on the Saeima, trusting the Saeima's decision and remembering that the Saeima owns the highest decision-making power. Whatever you're not... on which you would not have agreed in your Government corridors and how you would not have discussed various sports and opportunities there, please remember that the mandate of the people belongs to Members and Members is an opportunity to amend both the budget package and many other laws and make it enforceable. If we are talking about the impact this initiative can have on the national budget, I think we need to be very objective and also optimistic, because in fact, despite perhaps different calculations that we will immediately have in front of Mr Reira, telling us that there will now be huge losses, the representatives of the restaurant industry have mentioned that there is, unfortunately, also a grey area that they want to fight against, because there are also many who fail, and maybe many who, well... There are also perhaps those who do not understand how to bring them their own farm and how to combine all these taxes together. Then we rely on the fact that this sector will really get out of the shadow, pay all taxes, and so we will benefit from it. We will benefit from this reduced VAT rate, not lose. We will retain jobs, we will retain companies that will continue to pay taxes to the same Members and Ministers. I really call on my colleagues - especially colleagues from the CPV LV who cannot understand where they are - with which foot, let us say, in political terms, they are - to remember what you have promised to your constituents, not what you have promised to do to the dalds and raids. Remember your constituents, remember what you promised entrepreneurs. I will call on you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U15	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U16	Mrs. Mourniece! Colleagues! I will add a little more. I wanted to say a great deal of thanks to Mrs Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who has supported the sector from the outset. Thanks to Dan. I would like to remind Mr. Stein, whom you recently said in an interview, that you regret one decision that you do not say... on which you voted 'no', which was directly linked to the reduced VAT rate in the catering sector. This is this great opportunity for you to correct your error, and I will also call on all “Development/About!” to support the Group. I am sorry that Martin Stein did not support this proposal at the time; you have the opportunity to recover for this wrong decision made at the time. Regarding Mr. Dalder and the Young Unity of the political groups, I regret that there was one meeting for the industry at the time, if I don't beg, on the “Gemos” premises, where Int Dalder was also present, at that time he was a counsellor of Reira. I do not want to criticise anyone's ability to be or be counselor, but I just want to remind him of a meeting that was by chance near the Saeima. Then if I don't... I am not mistaken, Janis Jenzis met Mr. Reira on the street together with Mr. Latkovsky... Yes, Mr. Latkovsky, it was also you, where in fact you were a little bit concerned about the industry's efforts for many years now, as you say, to get this gift from... to those in power in the appearance of a reduced VAT rate. Finally, if we are talking about the grey sector, which, if not for me, knows exactly how big it is in the industry, and perhaps this would be the time when you should listen. I have been catering for quite a number of years, even though many of my friends tried to stop it from happening. Be so kind, please cut... And I can assure you that in this sector better times will come at reduced VAT rates and entrepreneurs will come out of the grey sector.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U17	Thank you. The debate is over. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U18	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Latvian society! I would just like to say that reduced VAT rates are normal, European practices in the operation of restaurants. This coalition, however, says that it is such a pro-European one, and looks at how Europe is going, and sets restrictions as Europe is. So maybe we need a reduction in VAT, too, as in Europe? Like in Germany! I am calling for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U19	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U20	For the Commission... 1. - the Commissioner's proposal has not been supported by the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U21	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Ģürgen's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 38, against - 45, refraining - 8. The proposal is not supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U22	2. - The Commissioner's Gürgen's proposal. Add Article 42 of the Act to the eighteenth paragraph as follows: ‘The reduced rate of duty of 5 per cent shall apply to the supply of foodstuffs which are acid-free milk products referred to in the Annex to this Law, without additives, milk, bread, fresh meat, fresh fish and eggs.’ In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U23	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U24	It seems that I managed to push the button faster than Mr Girgen himself, but I would also call for support for this proposal. It provides for a reduced value added tax on the first necessary, or most commonly used, foodstuffs - meat, fish, dairy products, eggs and also bread. A number of considerations why this proposal should be supported. First of all, we see that we have a very positive experience with a reduced rate of value added tax on local fruits, berries, vegetables. By introducing a lower rate, we see that objective consumption has increased, people eat healthier, can afford more. The shadow economy has fallen, for example, the number of registered VAT payers has increased by about 10 percent. Legal wages have grown faster than the average in the country. Areas with fruit, berries and vegetables have also grown. There are also several other positive factors. So continue with the fruit, fruit and vegetables... But I think we can achieve a similar effect by reducing value added tax on certain foodstuffs, such as meat and fish. We see that these are two areas where there is an extremely high proportion of the shadow economy. According to experts, this is about 20 percent. If value added tax is reduced for these product groups, then the shadow economy could reach a level of up to five percent. I think that then it would be beneficial for the economy both to have legal tax revenues and to have fairer competition. Those companies that are currently trying to work fairly would be more competitive. Another argument. The primary value added tax on foodstuffs is, in substance, a regressive tax. Why is that? Because for the less prosperous population, food accounts for a much higher proportion of the consumer basket than for the very wealthy. This means that if we reduce value added tax on these products, we are actually helping less well-off citizens. This is the case in Latvia, because, as we know, we have an extremely large proportion of the less well provided population, the inequality is one of the highest in Europe. This would be, especially in a crisis situation, I think a good support mechanism. I call for this proposal to be supported. The Ministry of Agriculture, too... At the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, they said, for their part, that they were not only in favour, but that they had also led such a proposal within the government itself. The discussion was about whether the bread had a reduced VAT because... it would require further clarification as to whether indeed all bread products would require a lower tax (e.g. fine bread, cakes). There could be another solution. This is the second reading of the bill. We can make such clarifications at third reading, and we can now support - conceptually and also practically - the idea of a more affordable price for essential foodstuffs for the less well-off population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U25	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U26	Yeah... Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this initiative has also come from... from the Ministry of Agriculture and they fully support such a reduction in VAT directly for meat... and other foodstuffs. Because as we can see examples with vegetables and fruit, then... This has been a very positive example because the number of VAT payers registered in the fruit and vegetables sector has increased by the same nine percent. The turnover of fruit, berries and vegetables producers has also increased by nine percent and the turnover in the country has increased by 16 percent. Because this has been a very good, positive example of how we achieve a much greater effect with reduced VAT, and we should move forward and extend this food basket. The argument of the Ministry of Finance that there will not be 80 million in the budget, but, in my view, does not pass any criticism because... as well as correctly underlined by the “Agricultural Family”, these money that will be saved - about 300 euros per family - will also be used to purchase other goods. Consequently, I believe that this proposal would certainly be necessary, supported, because we have a very high level of such populations... share of low income. This proposal would only be a bonus - so they could save extra money. Thank you very much. Support!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U27	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U28	Colleagues! I will, of course, also call on you to support this proposal. Thank you once again to Mr Ģürgen for presenting this proposal. As you know, for several years now, we have been fighting for this reduced rate for food. And we believe that one moment we... We will have a smart government that will really support this initiative and will not take account of everything in Excel tables. Yeah... Mr. Girgens's arguments, which he heard... against the reduction of this VAT rate... If I heard it right... So the Ministry of Finance is still maintaining its 80 million... Despite the fact that Mr. Girgen's proposal also mentions fish... because our proposal did not mention fish a month ago. So, obviously... I just... Well, those numbers, 80 million, are just put on like that counter argument. And no one even delves or computes, depending on the change in positions. I would also like to remind you that our proposal on reduced VAT, which was, if I am not mistaken, a year and a half ago, the Ministry of Finance responded with an counter argument that it would cost around EUR 50 million from the state budget. Well, there's nothing, I think, so much changed in our tax system that this effect changes so dramatically for one and a half years. I would also like to remind you all the more of the errors of reasoning that we have also heard from the Ministry of Finance. So the Ministry of Finance thought this... this fruit, berry and vegetable... the initiative does not bring anything... no positive, let us say, changes in the state budget. But the ministries themselves... The draft law, driven by the Cabinet of Ministers itself, which was moved to the Saeima in the budget package... the annotation of this bill on VAT clearly and clearly points to this positive contribution that fruit and berries have had. So, not only the rise in labour taxes and the rise in labour taxpayers, but also, of course, the elimination of the grey zone. And, in principle, this initiative, which we will also look at in the budget, is focused on continuing this grey area in fruit and berries... To keep fruit and berries in trade, let's say, leaving... Clear... away from Latvia. Colleagues! If such contradictions are in government and if the Ministry of Finance does not understand, do not count and, let us say, the Cabinet of Ministers, drive arguments that contradict what the Ministry of Finance has said, then I think it is time we finally search for a new finance minister who understands something from the economy, knows how to count and is consistent in his judgments. I call on you, fellow Members, to support this proposal, and I believe that, regardless of how you vote today, no matter who of the members of the JPV LV stands perhaps on one leg of the Unity, we will achieve this... these positive changes, if not today, are certainly in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U29	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U30	Dear colleagues, Especially members of the coalition! I understand your position very well. Every week's cycle is as follows: on Monday, some decisions have been made on the coalition board, and then these decisions are taken to you when you have group meetings or... Let's say on Wednesday or Tuesday... or what you've got in there... You are told some story about why we need to vote as it was decided on Monday at that coalition sitting. And I assume that then, on those Wednesdays, the fact that groups are sitting all sound quite logical. But then comes Thursday, and I'm sure very many of you are now really asking yourself a question - but why do we really... Are we opposed to at least any instruments, both for the tourism sector and for other sectors? And those justifications are not understandable. You see that opposition Members are speaking here and they say quite logical things. You have certainly noticed that none of your colleagues are against, none of your colleagues are now in favour, are in favour, do not explain why it is wrong - to apply such a non-... reduced VAT rates. And you may also have some other questions. You have certainly noticed this. I understand you: it is possible that you do not want to ignore the group's discipline, somehow to disrupt the coalition... Something else... But! I will tell you that it is possible for you, as you can do, to do the right thing: ask the leaders of your political groups to withdraw this bill from this sitting, the sitting of the Saeima, the agenda and return to the committee for re-examination. And then talk inside - in the sittings of your political groups - again. Yeah... I will remind you, colleagues, of the same tourism - very recently at a meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, in which your colleagues also took part... and your colleagues, listening to the tourism industry, have not said anything against them that what they say is somehow wrong, is not true. No, it was heard, took note, and confirmed their accusations. And the government does nothing. I don't know why. Perhaps because the Ministry of Economics is headed by a minister who comes from a party that is probably not quite a party anymore and for which no attention is paid in your coalition. But in order to have some sort of bills inside the coalition, you have consequences for the whole economy, for all those working in the tourism sector and for other sectors. They don't care what internal coalition bills are for you. They do not care if the minister for the economy is from the right or wrong party, or whether his party will soon be dissolved or not. It is important for them that you, members of the coalition, each of you, colleagues, are responsible for everything. And when you talk about the Ministry of Finance's attitude towards this kind of proposal, you have to understand that the Ministry of Finance is... cost the so-called fiscal effect absolutely mechanical... in proportion. I think each of you with a higher education... You probably... have taken some kind of economic courses. Have you heard of the law on request? Have you heard such claims that demand will change as the price changes? If VAT is proposed to be reduced, it will affect the price - the price will fall, demand will increase. Do you know that? However, all this is not known in the Ministry of Finance! The Ministry of Finance totally does not count such things! The Ministry of Finance does not have such an elementary economy ABC at all, they have never taught... They think that even the 21st century is outside! The Ministry of Finance does not calculate any demand effects. With a few exceptions, of course, when it comes to alcohol. If we talk about alcohol, then suddenly the Ministry of Finance wakes up and starts talking about the effects of demand (whether Estonians will come or not to buy alcohol in Latvia). But there are some exceptions that only confirm the common rule. So, colleagues, there are serious questions for the Ministry of Finance about that... in fact - the competence of the work... on the analysis of proposed tax changes by the Ministry of Finance. This is very primitive - what the Ministry of Finance is doing. And the question is also the government, which has been actually doing nothing to tackle the crisis in the tourism sector for a month. And that's a fact, colleagues. And that is your responsibility as coalition Members. And you don't get out of it anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U31	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U32	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! Thank you to Mr. Girgen once again... on this, too, proposal 2. I will ask you to support this proposal. Unfortunately, the proposal 1... Something went wrong there. You didn't understand the time... Members probably did not fully understand how important this is for industry. But despite that negative vote, I will still invite you to go to the restaurants and visit them... and watch and enjoy... and understand why this reduced VAT rate was needed for both proposal 1 and... is needed for this - 2, where is the speech already concrete... for certain food groups. Now a few words about the reduced VAT rate that has already been mentioned for fruit and vegetables. Despite what some officials in the Ministry of Finance say that this experiment with a reduced VAT rate on fruit and vegetables is a failure, I will, however, oppose because I have completely different information at my disposal, quite other data that show that this reduced VAT rate has yielded quite a lot of good results... Well, it can't be seen in any Excel table; it can only be seen if you look at a list of firms dealing with fruit and vegetables supplies... There will be some companies where there has been a sharp drop in sales... or who have ceased their activities at all. And it's directly linked to the value added interest rate... 5 per cent... The scheme no longer benefits from VAT, which means that the schemeers are slowly disappearing from the market. This is also confirmed by some large fruit and vegetable suppliers. And why else, if not for them, do you know better what's happening in industry?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can only ask what it is, and then listen to what the industry says. Because, whatever we want, honourable colleagues, we cannot be experts in all areas. So I will call for support, even for this reason. Life is not just in Excel table. Life in business is also outside Excel. Second round. Another important thing. Well, there is no secret that in Latvia food is very expensive compared to what people have average income. And this would be an important reflection for people - to buy food. And if we're talking about healthy food, then... It is even more expensive; buying healthy food in Latvia is very expensive. Those who eat healthy know that. And now I have another question. Why do I not hear about these important decisions from Mr Bondara... Mr. Bondara, who is the head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission? Why can't we hear anything from Iveta Benhen-Beeken? Come and tell us why these proposals have not been supported by the Commission. What are your arguments? The fact that you could now say that all of this has been discussed in the Commission - well, it will not withstand any criticism, because it is impossible for Latvian society, the people of Latvia to follow... I don't think people should follow commission meetings. That's why there's the parliamentary troupe - once a week, as determined by our Rules of Procedure and our work... Well, it's more common. So come here, please, and tell me from the platform why you don't support... or, if you support deep in your heart, why today's vote is 'no'! Then you're going to support... and so on, and so on. Once again, these changes are essential to help a whole range of entrepreneurs out of the grey zone. People in that grey area are not sitting behind their good will, believe me, they'd rather sleep quietly, don't think about those little skeletons in their closets, which they have now had to put into that closet, so that these businesses can be kept alive at all. So, think about entrepreneurs, please! Give them a chance to get out of the grey zone! Give entrepreneurs the chance to... self-regulate and listen to their offers! As this is one of the suggestions from the business world, I am asking very much: dear colleagues, listen to the cool mind! It is not always necessary to raise the hand to vote as the coalition says. I ask you to support 2. - Mr. Kaspars's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U33	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U34	Hello, colleagues! I hope you can hear me... changes after treatment. In my opinion, the discussion of this proposal is very important. And I very much hope that this discussion is followed not only by the members of the opposition and those who are still attached to these computers to look at and press the necessary buttons, but also by the Latvian public listening to this debate, because this debate shows what is happening in Parliament - in our highest legislative body. In particular, rather than coming here to debate, the coalition Members are simply sitting here and keeping their oath to the Latvian people to work for the best consciousness, because they are either... And here are two options why they sit and remain silent. Either they don't even understand what's going on, they don't have any consciousness... senses about this ongoing process, about fulfilling these responsibilities at the moment, or everything has been decided for a long time - not in Parliament. And at this point in time, Parliament works simply as a blind voting machine to take away the decisions made by the power cartel; it is simply a cloth in which they can wipe their feet and walk cleanly and white and say: “You see, everything is legal! It was decided by the Parliament.’ Although, in fact, as we can see, this decision-making process is most discredited here: Parliament does not work as a decision-making power in this case, but simply as a blind voting machine. If that is not the case, then I call on the authorities... Members of the coalition come here and justify their position. You don't do this, you confirm it. And so I invite all those who listen: the public, you who listen to this debate, don't be lazy, enter Latvia.lv and sign up for the dismissal of this parliament! The sooner you let it go, the less shocks in our country are going to work. I call for this proposal to be supported. And I call you to do the rest of society, otherwise you'll expect not only the miracles that... What makes you come here and stand in demonstrations, and you make walls... This wall is really built - a wall between the legitimate power and what is actually happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U35	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U36	Yeah... Colleagues! We, too... Some time ago, we, the independent Members, together with businessmen and the Ministry of Agriculture, created a think tank where we also tried to discuss all these issues and understand whether this reduced VAT will really help businessmen. That was the main issue; we are not even talking now about price cuts in stores, which will, of course, happen more or less organically, but we are talking about putting the most serious emphasis at the moment on reducing the proportion of the shadow economy. And what we got - we confirmed this concern that indeed the Ministry of Agriculture has been working on this reduced VAT for years on basic food, especially with regard to meat, meat and egg production. We found out that, in the meat sector, this reduced VAT will bring very large benefits to the public budget, because it will destroy the shadow economy, which is simply dramatic in the meat sector. In the egg sector, competition will be ensured for Latvian entrepreneurs, as there is also very strong, very strong competition with other countries. For bread producers it will thus increase turnover... Percentage... All the resistance that we have to face, the silent 'no' that we hear all the time, can most likely indicate that someone - someone who is making these decisions right now! - it is very beneficial that the share of the shadow economy in certain sectors still exists; nothing else can be explained. We are currently talking about reducing the proportion of the shadow economy in sectors, and you will now vote 'no'. Then don't tell us after you fight your grandmothers who sell blueberries at RIMI, or other sock-dogs... They are not the share of the shadow economy... The perpetrators. That's what you don't want to destroy right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U37	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U38	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! So what else can I say? Thank you to the opposition colleagues for this very meaningful debate. That's what I couldn't say about the position, because I can't hear anything... Except... Well, Mrs Mūrniece's meeting is to be conducted, that is clear. I call once again: please support this proposal. I also invite the Latvian society (just like Mr. Zarins): follow me! I remind you: follow the Saeima sitting! I remind you that this is not a legitimate sitting of the Saeima, this is just a conversation. I was a little late at the beginning of the sitting, so I have not applied for a debate on the procedure. I will call (also like Mr Zarins): well, you know, if you can't get this House and understand that it is Parliament that decides, and that wigs, wigs, divers...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U39	Please address the proposal in particular.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U40	Mrs Mūrniece, please do not stop me because I am calling for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U41	The role of the Head of the Saeima sitting is also to suspend Members if they do not refer to the proposal. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U42	Latvian society! You have just seen a classic example of these remote sittings being an excellent way of closing the mouth of the opposition. How do you know... My followers and those who support me, and those who do not support me. I did not vote in any of the votes in this remote mode, because I also consider myself an anticonst...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U43	Mr Gobzem, please speak on the specific proposal, proposal 2, tabled by Member Ģirgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U44	In this respect, I would like to say to you that, in essence, I am, of course, in favour of reducing VAT, because the shadow economy in Latvia actually exists, not because people are unfair. Most people are honest, and most people would like to pay all taxes in full. I am deeply convinced of this. However, the problem is that in our country, there is a system in which it is simply impossible to pay all taxes fairly physically. It's a system that's made up in an exell, thinking that if we raise taxes more, we'll charge more. It is not a system adapted to be competitive, at least at the Baltic level, even at regional level. This exalliation system must be abolished only in one way - by releasing Parliament. Dear people, you are very dissatisfied! I know you wrote me a hundred letters every day... Latvia.lv/ pv. There's another month of time. Only a hundred thousand signatures you need. You can do it in two minutes. If you want less VAT, entrepreneurs, then all as one pick up computers and walk all the parish, all the neighbors, all the aunts of Mirdza. Show me how you do it, how to fire this House. The time of the month is for you. It may be too late afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U45	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U46	Dear colleagues, I would like to say to you that by treating the proposals in this way, by means of taxation as a policy tool rather than simply having a fiscal function, you make a big conceptual mistake. What you are doing is perhaps, on the one hand, welcome: you have complete confidence in what the decisions of this government are. I can tell you that even! - In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which should be specialised at all, there are no questions from Members from the position on this subject, there is absolutely no discussion. I call on you, my fellow Members, to change the order in which we are dealing with this in general, because if you continue to act as now... What you're doing, you're actually... This is your vote... That's... it cannot be deleted. And then you will put yourself in a situation where you will not be able to take any step in this direction of tax policy by reducing the rate... without losing your face. You limit the room for manoeuvre to yourself by blindly following such an unwise policy from the Ministry of Finance. I call on you to change this order. If you're here today... if you have a suspicion on Thursdays that you make the right decisions... Ask your management to withdraw this bill and re-examine it. You'll get the government's answer. You will ask the Prime Minister to come to the Saeima once a month and answer your coalition Members' questions as to why the government does or does not do either. As it does in fact in all other parliaments of civilised states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U47	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U48	2. - The Commissioner's Gürgen's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Ģürgen's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 37, against - 42, refraining from - 12. The proposal is not supported. Please open the procedure section. Member Liepiņa wants to talk about the procedure. Mrs. Liepaja, please apply. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U50	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I would remind you that 44 662 voters voted for me in this parliamentary election. I am the most elected Latvian member of the woman... represented parties. And for this very reason, I would now like to say to the people of Latvia, not to Mrs Mūrniece, to anyone else, because... Mrs Mūrniece's work is to turn off the microphone at the right time - in her opinion, at the right time and in the right time. So, what I want to say to the people of Latvia: I think that time has been hit when we should release this throne of the Saeima, where there have been a few women from falling parties, such as Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere and Mrs Mūrniece, who...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U51	Mrs. July, you have to talk about the parliamentary procedure... on the procedure for a particular sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U52	I am referring to the procedure. ( Not to be heard.) ... turn off the microphone. You don't have any right to close my microphone out if I'm talking...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U53	Talk about the procedure at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U54	... if I am talking specifically about the procedure and how you chair the sittings of the Saeima. I'm ashamed of your place! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U55	Okay. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U56	Yeah... Dear colleagues, I may also turn to those who are watching this sitting of the Saeima and record all the irregularities that are happening at the moment. I call on you to take note of the fact that Member Liepiņš, when speaking about the specific proposal, on the reduction in VAT, was pointed out and her microphone was switched off. She didn't say... on the parliamentary roll of order... she did not use insulting or irreconcilable expressions with the respect of the Saeima. We are all witnesses of this. She spoke about the proposal. And the proposal can be discussed in absolutely different ways. Let us say that there can be a very long introduction to start talking about the proposal. She did not offend anyone and behaved politely. That is why Mrs Mūrniece, by denying Mrs Liepiņa's speech at the moment, has, in my opinion, violated the roll of order of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U57	Thank you. Two colleagues have spoken about the procedure. Colleagues! When it comes to the proposal, Members must talk about the proposal in question. Not on various other issues, but on the specific proposal. Please, let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U58	3. - The Commissioner's Gürgen's proposal. It provides for the addition of Article 42 of the Act to the nineteenth paragraph as follows: ‘The reduced rate of duty of five percentage points applies to the purchase of electric cars’. This proposal would be a violation of the Directive and was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U59	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U60	Dear colleagues, In the previous votes, we could see very well how important Latvian citizens are to us. I think that none of you Members who voted against or abstained would be able to have any normal argument... explain to his constituents why he has voted against the proposal so that VAT is reduced and people have more revenue... And let's say, fruit and vegetables, and all... the meat would also be more accessible. But most of all for me, of course, is the way in which both Parliament and the government work. We're free... We can give airBaltic a few hundred million hands, just as we can reduce the excise duty on alcohol in one day. And... I also have a bright example of how we can give money to various studies in the same way, with our free hand. Somehow... As an example, we can take the Ministry of Education and Science, to which we have now allocated 10 studies... not us, but the government has allocated five million. For example, I can say that 495 thousand goes out of the economy, politics and... legal... The following study: framework for maintaining the potential of the Latvian economy and promoting competitiveness after the pandemic crisis. At the end of the day, we will make a little compilation - and 500 thousand will go nowhere! At the same time, we were already able to remove these 500 thousand from these 80 million, with the Ministry of Finance holding a very stop. If we return to my proposal - I would like to say that this proposal was made on the basis of a statement by the Minister for Transport, Fare Linkait, that a new tax will be created - a tax on cars over five years old. In my view, this is not the right way to tax citizens because... Five years for a car, let's not say it's like that... That this is the oldest car, but... Of course, we know that in Latvia there is one of the oldest car parks... And with... mean age - 15 years. I still believe that this is the wrong way. Moreover, if we have heard publicly that these funds will be spent on the purchase of diesel locomotives, then the question arises: where is the logic? If cars contaminate... trains seem to me to be even more polluting. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that in other European Union countries there are... Stimulatory measures are being developed and electric cars are being supported by... on average... about 4,000 euros - such as compensation for the purchase of these cars. But yet... This proposal was aimed at the fact that... Since the Ministry of Transport cannot, let us say so, give this “burcan” or bonus to citizens, why should they switch to green cars, so there was also this proposal to reduce value added tax. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this proposal from the Ministry of Transport... on this tax... Kariņš was withdrawn (probably by summer). So now... I will expect a clear vision from the Ministry of Transport, however, of how we could support the purchase of green cars in the future, so I have withdrawn this proposal and I do not request a vote... just like about... I do not ask for a vote anymore if I do not pray for proposals 14 and 15, because the Saeima has shown itself that the people of Latvia are not interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U61	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U62	Colleagues! Despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance argued that we cannot simply take such a reduced value added tax and introduce it, because it... it is not specified in the Annex to the relevant VAT Regulation that it falls within the competence of a Member State. But it is possible to reconcile this with the European Commission, and I believe that it must also be done by providing support and incentive for the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles such as electric cars. In particular, I would like to emphasise this because... and also to support it because Tālis Linkaits, the Minister of Transport, wanted to do one great mistake: to introduce additional taxes, taxes, i.e. to collect more than EUR 20 million from Latvian residents... Well, a total of €24 million... under the flag of “to achieve environmental objectives” or “to introduce greener transport”. And, you know, none of this money was intended to provide more environmentally friendly vehicles! It was thought that people were as old as... the same number of cars will continue to be imported into Latvia, they will be bought with only a few hundred euros of registration fee. And this money, as Mr. Girgen also said, would be diverted to the purchase of new diesel locomotives and wagons. Well, where it's seen that talking about noble goals, about sorting the environment, at the same time doing absolutely the opposite! And more. Colleagues, you... we and you, we all know that we will have to achieve those environmental objectives, and if we cheat people now, we will collect money from them and we will not achieve them, then... After a few years there will be new taxes again, new restrictions again, new requirements that will hit the people of our country, and therefore the business, in the pocket. This proposal should therefore be supported conceptually. Without support for electric cars, I would say there should be another specific stimulus package. There could be, for example, an exemption from vehicle operating tax, registration tax, low emissions... new or almost new cars. Another aid instrument could be that, in a situation where a person transfers his old or very old car by writing it off, he would receive a special voucher for the purchase of a new electric vehicle. This is already one of the proposals that have also been made public, it is also being applied in neighbouring countries, and it is worth considering. As for an electric car, there is another nuance that needs to be taken into account. All in all, cars... and to achieve environmental objectives... In Latvia, a natural resource tax is also paid for cars and unfortunately it is even higher for electric cars than for conventional cars, because of the batteries used for electric cars. How do the Ministry of Transport and VARAM plan to achieve this in this situation, so, as they said, that over a few years 18 000 electric cars should be sold in Latvia and people should travel with them? Knowing the purchasing power of Latvian citizens and the price of electric cars, and knowing that we do not have a special support instrument, I cannot imagine how this could be done in practice. I call for support at least for this proposal from Mr Girgen, even if it is not formally correct at the moment. It will be an incentive for the Ministry of Finance to do... and the government also work and find, if not, other support instruments. Thank you. And... Well, I forgot to say... Colleagues! I will also try to take this opportunity to inform you that the members of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union are in the Saeima buildings and that some of my colleagues, unfortunately, could not vote on the previous proposal - hopefully this one - because there are regular problems with the Internet. The Internet is not working, communication is breaking, computers need to be reloaded all the time. So we are also asking for support for Members working here.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U63	Thank you, colleagues. The Saeima Bureau has called on Members to work in specifically designated rooms - each group. In halls where IT support can also be provided, in halls where there is a moderator, in halls where... Then the members of the Saeima can also report to us various technical difficulties. Please, colleagues, take this opportunity. All Members who work in another place are responsible for both Internet connection and the prevention of technical difficulties. That's why... We are working at a distance, but - on specified premises - to be able to provide and receive the necessary IT support. And, colleagues, I would remind you that this proposal has been withdrawn, so we do not have to vote on it, but the debate is possible. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U64	Yeah... Well, reflecting on what you just heard... on technical problems... and that the Speaker of the Saeima has answers to everything... It must have been the case. That is why it is already the President. I would like to say that... Well, yet the Constitution... Adjust where to sit and what to do... But... Well, that's it. I come back to the proposal not to turn my microphone and camera off immediately again. I will now talk about the proposal. So... Well, here - to this withdrawn, to regret, to the proposal - it would be to say the following words: drive more slowly over the bridge, friends! Whatever you want to drive and get on with your life, you should get down and think about it. Think of how we live on this... in this place called Earth. And whether this one's actually been thought-out here, too... led by a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, to which... Kaspars Girgen also mentioned - about the new tax on those old cars - those over five years old. Well, where do we live?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We live on some planet X, unknown where now that car is five-year-old... Now, that's it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, We've got everything out, nothing ever worth anything anymore?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Colleagues! Making new is much more expensive and more harmful than using old and old things. Not old, old things... Why should they be taxed? They could be taxed, not because they are harmful, but because they are probably becoming more and more luxury every year. But... Well, that's another story. This isn't... there is an incorrect justification. If I take the opportunity, I call... Let me also remind you that it is the most environmentally friendly... Of course, if you're talking about cars... if you need to move faster than with your feet, an electric car could certainly be the most environmentally friendly at present when it comes to cars. But... I'll remind you, there are also wheels... and there are yachts. Now we're going in a little wrong direction. I think that one of the previous speakers has also mentioned this... Cameron said yes... that I support - with the support of millions! - airBaltic. Not at all, where that money remains, what will be done with that money. But now we are in favour of the most environmentally friendly... Because... Well, because the state has something in it. Well, that made me think about it. Thanks to Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who mentioned this necessary harmonisation... what would be necessary if we... if Latvia chooses to go another way... and I think it should also do... the need for this alignment with the European Commission. Well, unfortunately, I have to admit that I have not heard anything about the fact that, let us say, those in the government, that is to say those in power, that is, those in power, that once in Europe. I have not heard about the efforts of Mr. Kariņš to represent Latvia's interests somewhere, to fight for something somewhere. All the time we only blindly accept, go after what someone tells us - either from Europe or... God alone knows where he comes from. We leave our own interests somewhere -- that's... in that background... and in general behind the curtain somewhere. So I'm going to remind you that the parliament is still working... Well, right now - no (in view of the fact that sittings are illegal)... Didzis Schmidt is the only Member who consistently holds the line and does not participate in these sittings. I think this one too will have to be compensated in some way for those in power... the fact that we have one Member who... He is still denied the opportunity to attend Saeima sittings because... Well, those arguments... I'm afraid that Mrs Mūrniece will close that microphone outside, but I'll remind you, however, that Digijs Schmidt has great skills and great skills in lobbying, representing Latvia's interests in the European Union, because Didzis Schmidt was the representative of Latvia who returned to Latvia... We managed to make it again, which we could lose. Who doesn't love to eat the spaghetti? If we were all sitting in the Saeima's sitting room now, I would ask the Members who do not love to eat the Sprat to raise their hands. Well, I don't have such a chance. And those smokes too... The level of benzo(a)pyrene in those products... Perhaps some of the members of the opposition have heard about such things. If not, then open your Google browser and search - you will find a lot of different information. So, everything we need is right here. I'm just... I would like to say, by means of an opportunity, that something may have been confused and that the wrong people are now in power and in control, and that is where it is time to change. Therefore, I will invite all residents of Latvia to sign for the dismissal of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U65	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U66	Hello, colleagues! Madam President, On the one hand, it is possible that this question would apply to the procedure... But... However... Recalling the experience of the previous sitting and previous discussions, I would call on the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission rapporteur, not just to name a mystical word... a declaration, but explain it to all the other Members who have not participated in the discussion. Hazard before taking a decision... I understand that the proposal cannot be put to the vote at the moment, as it has been withdrawn. And yet... What is it about a directive that we would violate if we voted... Is that so? Including those who would support a possible proposal... What would we do if we did? We need to explain the consequences! And we also need to explain the whole discussion! Why is this proposal not to be supported from the European Union's perspective? I call, however, on the rapporteurs to be professional and also to tell those people who now want to hear the position of the coalition Members, or who want to have a reasoned opinion... a reasoned explanation as to why such a proposal cannot be adopted at present. All the more because... if a similar proposal is made from the Ministry of Transport, it means that officials or politicians who currently represent and work in this field, as well as... encourage the Saeima to violate a certain directive which... name I don't know. Mr Cielen, please explain what this is about and what we have to respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U67	Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U68	Colleagues! I would like to mention another argument why this proposal would be important. The procedure for calculating the vehicle operating tax will change. The accounting procedures for CO2 emissions are being changed. In the past it was more based on laboratory data, now... the new system - on the practical extent of CO2 emissions. And this transformation should in fact not change the tax burden. What is happening, unfortunately, is that the Ministry of Transport cunningly shaped their table so that the average increase in vehicle operating tax... Also for the new... That's 17 percent. Well, dear people, that's what we all have to take into account now. It would therefore be important to have at least some support mechanism for environmentally friendly cars... the purchase of means of transport. But... I'm asking you again... please also note that there is currently no complete guarantee of work for the Members of the Saeima. Members in the Group of the Greens/Family Union are honest, they want to work. They were asked... We were asked to work right now on the Group's premises, because the guest hall that we are given is for the Group's meeting. Shortly after the Saeima sitting... on break... And it was the members of the Saeima who told us... asked to work on the Group’s premises. We are doing this, but unfortunately the Internet has already been done for a number of colleagues now... on several occasions it was not working. And so we do not have the opportunity to work fully on very important issues as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U69	Thank you. Let us ask the Administration of the Saeima to get involved and to be present, too, to send moderators to the space to which the members of the FAO Group are being asked to move. We're going on. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U70	Hello, colleagues! I see that many Members have an opinion - practically everyone - on cars and the transport sector, so I wanted to be a little clear about the policy of the Ministry of Transport with regard to environmentally friendly transport. Thus, in general, the Ministry of Transport is based on three transport whales to achieve environmental objectives. The first is the development of public transport. It is the purchase of new trains, it is the construction of platforms, it is public transport routes, new buses and the like. The second is micromobility. It is the development of pedestrian infrastructure, the development of cycling infrastructure. And the third is environmentally friendly road transport. Or, in this case, we, if we look at the proposal... then it would be directly worth one of the proposals to base this third round. Unfortunately, this proposal cannot be voted on, but at the same time, the Ministry of Transport has, for its part, worked to organise environmentally friendly transport in a different way. For example, the Ministry of Transport subsidises the electric charging network for electric vehicles, including by developing it, by investing in European funds. At the same time, it's... In parallel with electric cars, natural gas transport, such as commercial transport, has been supported by the Ministry of Transport for its part, both the Jēkabpils Bus Park and Daugavpils Bus Park, where buses will be able to drive compressed natural gas. The government's decision to reduce excise duty on natural gas is also directly to contribute to the development of this environmentally-friendly road transport. Of course, in the future we have the goal of having around 18 thousand electric cars in Latvia in 2030, and any proposal that can stimulate this, of course, is welcome. Of course, we must look at all this in the context of the budget and so on. However, I believe that in general we want or do not... Let's either stimulate or not electric vehicles... Let us achieve this in any case, because, as we can see, in Europe, car manufacturers are slowly giving up both the production of internal combustion engines and the... Given that Latvia is a secondary market for developed Western cars and it is already in developed countries that the registration of electric cars is increasing significantly and internal combustion engines are decreasing, then around 2030 we will also have a significant amount of electric cars entering the secondary market at reasonable prices, which citizens of the queue will also be able to afford. And this number - 18 thousand - is not something that can't be achieved. In my opinion, this will happen by itself in 2030 and we will achieve these objectives. Thank you for your attention, and late luck for you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U71	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U72	Dear colleagues, In the Commission on Sustainable Development, we have on several occasions examined these issues relating to climate change and the necessary amendments specifically relating to light vehicles and lorries - making them more environmentally friendly - and their objectives will not be easily achieved. At the moment, if we are talking about this specific proposal, which would mean a reduction in VAT on electric cars, it would not actually solve the problem. Why? Because the purchase of a new car, like Tesla, which costs 100 thousand euros... The one person who can afford to buy it will be able not to pay value added tax of around EUR 15 000. At the same time, he probably doesn't drive an environmentally friendly car... In fact, it is quite a loss from the public budget, but we do not solve the problem. Rather, we need to look at various incentive measures, how we can help society to rebuild existing cars into more environmentally friendly cars, both to transform engines into natural gas and to transform electric cars... There, its costs can only be measured in a few thousands of euros, and these would be the incentive measures that should be promoted. Also, of course, the purchase of more environmentally friendly cars, new cars in the future. If we want to achieve the objectives that have been confirmed by the European Parliament in recent years, so that we do not have to pay penalties, we really need to take sufficiently intelligent and strategic action, rather than reducing in a sufficiently simplified way the value added tax on certain cars, which are only available on the market to an absolute minority of members of society who can afford to buy them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U73	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U74	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Well, I'll answer from the beginning... I will reflect on what Mrs Papule has said. Mrs Papules, you are right in everything you say, but, well, reflect... You can only talk about things that you know. If you do not know which directives or which ones regulate, then there is obviously nothing more to be said by the rapporteur at the moment. There you are, Mr. Butane, as usual... I am very pleased that you are speaking in the debate and you are Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. You fashion my day - once again. In translation: ‘You made my days a lot, much more colourful’ with your presentation. For those three whales. Well, three whales you mentioned - public transport, micro-mobility, environmentally friendly transport. That's wonderful! I'd have had enough in fact with a one-wall elementary understanding of things. Well, okay, somebody needs three whales, somebody needs one. Then about the figures you called and about their expression: “Latvia is the secondary market.” Very rightly you say, well, we live in such a second hand in a great country as well. And it seems a little strange to me that, as a parliamentary secretary in such an important ministry, the Ministry of Transport, it is absolutely satisfied, you are proud of it, you are even expecting that their cars will now enter the re-use market, and you are even willing to buy some second hand to citizens. Well, my point of view is completely different from you, but not for me to talk about it here now, because it's healthy here... Well, it makes no sense for most of the House to tell you, because you will hardly understand what I will try to tell you. So, Mr. Dombrava rightly mentioned that price to Tesla - 100,000. Mr. Butane, your goal, with which you are proud, is 18 thousand in 2030. God gives so many people to be left in Latvia for that time, let alone 100 thousand. You wanted us luck. Thank you for your luck. Unlike your wishes, I will not wish you luck, because I do not want to see you in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U75	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U76	Thank you. On the one hand, Mr Bhutan, thank you for having taken part in the discussion, but I think that the dream that a citizen is going to rank, a citizen of the Latvian rank (if you even... maybe would like to become such), will ever be able to buy Tesla, whether with a five-percent discount, is, of course, a good goal that may be brewed into the sky. Perhaps, however, do business in a food store with a solution to the Brussels waffles issue. I very much hope that the Ministry of Transport will review its whales, because I really do not see any sense that in Riga, for example, trams could be replaced by diesel trains and that would be a green ecological approach. That's one. And the other. What will then be charged to your power stations if people cannot simply buy an environmentally friendly car? Please also think about what you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U77	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U78	For the Commission... The proposal by Commissioner Ģürgen was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U79	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate on proposal 3. We do not have to vote on this because the proposal has been withdrawn. Dear colleagues, Time for notifications. Five minutes later, the Bureau and the Fraction Council held a joint meeting at the Guest Hall. Again, please! The group presidents and the Bureau meet in five minutes' time at the Guest Hall. I would therefore like to ask you to register the presence of Members. Thank you. It has been a success. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U80	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U81	Keep going, colleagues! 4. - a proposal from the Legal Office to replace the words "payment received" with "payment received". Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U82	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The legal office's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 73, against and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U83	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is a clarification of the reference. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U84	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U85	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Explanation of terminology. It is proposed to replace in paragraph 1 of the sixth paragraph of Article 134 of the Law the word ‘supply’ with the words ‘supply of goods’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U86	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! ( The sound is broken.) ... Abstention - none. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U87	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. There is also clarification of terminology. It is proposed to replace in paragraph 2 of the sixth paragraph of Article 134 of the Law the words ‘for supplies other than those mentioned’ with the words ‘for supplies of goods and services other than those mentioned’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U88	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U89	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. It is proposed to replace the word ‘special treatment’ by ‘special tax treatment’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U90	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U91	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. It is proposed to replace the words ‘name and surname’ by ‘name of the natural person; legal person’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U92	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U93	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U94	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The legal office's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U95	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is proposed to make the introductory part of the second paragraph of Article 1404 of the Act as follows: ‘The import regime shall be eligible for the distance sale of goods (excluding excise goods) imported from third countries or third territories, provided that the true value of the consignment does not exceed EUR 150 by the following taxable persons:’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U96	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U97	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Only one intermediary may be present at the same time as the taxable person for the benefit of the import regime. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U98	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U99	13. - also a proposal from the Legal Office proposing to express points 4 of the fifth, sixth and seventh paragraphs of Article 1404 of the Law as follows: "The tax identification number or an equivalent number enabling the taxable person to be identified for tax purposes and granted by the State in which the taxable person carries on his economic activity." The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U100	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U101	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Commissioner's Gürgen's proposal. Supplement the transitional provisions to point 36 as follows: ‘The amendments to Article 42 of this Act which provide for the addition of the seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth paragraphs shall enter into force on 1 January 2021.’ The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U102	Please turn on the microphone for Kaspars Girgen! I would like to understand whether proposals 14 and 15 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U103	Hello! I withdrew my proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U104	Could you please turn on the camera because we don't see you? Mr. Girgan! ( Technical problems.) Mr. Girgen, could you please turn the camera on, so that we can see you, and once again say that these proposals have been withdrawn? Mr. Girgen, please, a microphone! ( Pause) So Mr. Girgen has gone out of the e-Saami system right now. We cannot claim with full conviction that these proposals have been withdrawn. So 14 is the Member... ( The sound is broken.) No one has applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Ģürgen's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 16, for - 50, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U105	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Commissioner's Gürgen's proposal. Add an Annex to the Act in the following wording: 2. Foods subject to a reduced rate of duty of 5 percentage points.’ There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U106	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U107	Yes, colleagues, I am a little sorry, a little technical problems, but I would like to mention that I have withdrawn both 14 and 15, as I said. And I already set out my reasons. Because proposals 1 and 2 were not supported... These proposals were accompanied by proposals 1 and 2, which were not supported by the Saeima. So I withdrew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U108	Thank you, Mr. Girgen. Therefore, proposal 15 has been withdrawn. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U109	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! Well, the wonders are happening here again. Mr. Girgen then you can see, then you can't see. I did not understand that, Mrs Mūrniece: it was a vote, it was not a vote? Yeah, well... We didn't hear there, either... You asked Mr. Girgen's question, Mr. Girgen's gone somewhere in the dark. I see it wasn't. I am not sure if it was Mr Ģirgen's vote who said that he would withdraw this proposal. Someone... We have some mystic here today. In the ZZS fraction, in the compartment of the fraction where they are seated, they don't work... The Internet doesn't work. The Internet is not working properly, let us be precise. Now, too... I have now entered the Facebook so that my constituents - 44,662 - can see how you close the microphone for me, how you don't let me talk. I think the people need to know their heroes. I'm about myself, not about you. So, well, then... How is it going to be with that bill now, or this one at all... whether this draft law can, in general, be put to the vote in its entirety, taking into account all these technical problems that have been pointed out to you and any infringements, including from your side. Actually, I... I think it is only from your side today. You didn't allow me to talk, you didn't allow me to speak, you closed the microphone out. There was no reason for this: Mrs Jūlija Stepanenko pointed out this. What to do with this draft law? How's that? How, then, will it really be? I don't know, I have... Maybe a colleague can help me? Maybe Mr. Many, if you're now... Is that so? I know that Mr. Dauge is very well-oriented in the parliamentary order-- maybe Mr. Dauge can comment in some way... Well, so far... because we are already on proposal 15, there are two more proposals. In fact, we will have to vote immediately as a matter of urgency. This is, if I am not mistaken, the second reading, so we will not have more opportunities. How do we do better now, because now something really isn't here, I think today - should probably offer something... Perhaps we will return to the Commission, and then there will be some time for Members within the framework of the restaurant week to think about it too: to grant restaurants a reduced VAT rate or not to grant a VAT rate. Would the Latvian people, however, have the right to buy vegetables, eggs, dairy products and fish, or not, at slightly lower prices, thanks to the reduced VAT rate. Well, Mr. Butane would have an opportunity to reconsider whether in 2030 it would be in Latvia at all... 18 thousand people will live, all of whom will drive electric cars... for 100 thousand euros purchased. I think there would be a number of things to think about. Well, I've had three minutes, two more stays. You really got my idea... I would like to see that Mr. Many has applied for. I would like to make a number of comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U110	Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U111	Yes, honourable colleagues! I hope you hear me. In fact, we are already talking not as much about the proposal as we are talking about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U112	Many, sir, we hear you very weakly. Please speak louder.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U113	Yeah, but then I'll look on the screen funnyly. Do you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U114	Very weak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U115	And now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U116	Now we see you quite weakly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U117	No, no... Well, yes, I only have two options.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U118	Talk, talk. We made sure it was you. Please talk.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U119	Yeah. There is no discussion at present about the proposal, but actually about the procedure. But Mr Ģürgen already when he reported on his proposal on electric vehicles - already then he withdrew these two proposals. Secondly, the previous proposal was not at all put to the vote, because it was not supported by a proposal which... which... To which was the subject of proposal 14 at the time of entry into force. And 15. Neither is there to be a vote, either, because the proposal that... Which, let us say, supposedly determines that such an annex should be made. So, I think, we just have to go ahead, time just running terriblely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U120	Thank you. I closed the debate. Thank you, colleagues, for all the proposals. I must say that Mr Girgen said, when he spoke about proposal 3, that he did not vote on proposals 14 and 15 - just like on proposal 3. To make sure that he really withdraws this proposal, such a question was asked and it is legitimate. We received Mr Ģirgen's reply to the 15th proposal that it had been withdrawn, and this information was also provided to all colleagues. We really couldn't see what Mr. Girgen thought. So, following on from the Saeima, we need to have very precise information on whether the proposal has been withdrawn or not. With regard to technical problems, they have been eliminated. The Saeima Administration works. Mrs Rafelde has been involved as Secretary-General and all the problems that are being... which, if any, they are also prevented. Dear colleagues, We are indeed late on the agenda. Please, let's get on with it. So, on behalf of the Commission, Member Jānis Cielen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U121	16. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. It is proposed to provide in the draft law that the date of entry into force of the law shall be 1 July 2021. Partly supported by the Commission, included 17. - the Commission's proposal. On behalf of the Commission, I am calling on you to vote against or to abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U122	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal submitted by Finance Minister Reira! Please, let's vote! About -4, against -58, refraining - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U123	Last, 17th, Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission proposal. ‘The Law shall enter into force on 1 July 2021’. This is a new decision by the European Commission on the entry into force of the Directive in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic and the request made by the various Member States. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U124	Name of Member Linda Liepiņš... in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U125	That's... Mrs. Moore, I'll call... President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. I would invite you to allow me to speak for five minutes on the proposal... on the draft law as a whole... on the entry into force and on the nightmare that takes place here throughout the morning. So I'm going to ask you not to support this 17. - the proposal, or the draft law at second reading as a whole, because it is quite clear that the good things that we could vote on today in this draft law and which at all would have any meaning, we have not done because... thanks to geniuses from coalition parties who do not understand some elementary things that, for example, entrepreneurs can leave the grey zone only if individual value added tax rates are reduced. Well, I don't understand that some of them showed up here too... rarely... Well, actually one-- Butane showed a total misunderstanding about it... about some elemental things talking about electric vehicles. As I have already mentioned, this goal set by Mr. Butane in 2030 - so 18 thousand people in Latvia are driven by electric vehicles, the price of electric vehicles is 100 thousand. Mr. Butane is dreaming that in 2030 there will already be a second... The secondary market will already open somewhere in Germany, so old electric vehicles will come to us, then we will go as second hand, not only walk in second hand clothes, but also drive old cars. Well, okay. Well, about that age. This is just something weird that's... Well, that's a total ignorance, a misunderstanding of things that we show... Well, today, Mr. Butane showed for everyone. We did not hear anything about this draft law, which Mr Bondara would say, we did not hear Mr. Ivet Benhen-Beeken. The rapporteur reports, well, simply reading - I am sorry for the word "tupa", no, "glupi" I wanted to say - "glupi reading these... Well, simply reading the text, not reporting, not telling about the substance. Yes, now also refers to some directive. What is it about the directive, why... why should we go somewhere in Europe for some directives? And something needs to be supported again. Why can't we go our way? Why can we not adopt such laws as we need? Because you don't know about the moon or what? Is it because you have no understanding of things? Because Karin, Reir or healthy... whole copper, the rest, who sits on the ground, is unable to go to Europe and hide Latvia's interests? I will remind you once again, there is a Member of the Saeima on behalf of Didzis Šmits, who has wiped things such as sprats and smoke for Latvia. If you need it, we'll keep the rest. Well, then I'd ask you not to accept another... another manure... Name... Can you say, Mrs. Moore? Hope you can. I would invite you not to accept the other manure so that there's no... Such laws should not be adopted by us. Shame! I would call for this draft law to be returned to the Commission. I don't know what the procedure is. Help me, Mrs. Mourniece, as the chair of the sitting. What I need to do exactly to do this... in order to be able to vote on the fact that we are returning this draft law to the Commission. If - no, of course - we will have a budget that has already been brought... stretched over to the Saeima. Of course, the budget will be a very big test for this government. So that I would like to see their homework done by a coalition, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is also doing. You don't have to wait for that budget. It's gonna be crazy. So, please, I will call on Members not to vote in favour of this draft law. I call on Mr Bondara to take this bill back to the Commission again. Look again, talk to the industries, with the catering industry, talk to the food industry about reduced VAT, go out... Get out of the exal table, see what's going on! Consult yourself with common sense! And when you have done all this, come again, try again! We make decisions. We, the Saeima, are making decisions, and the government is working on us - they have to do it. I therefore call on everyone to come together and do some good thing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U126	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Proposal No 17... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U127	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U128	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported. Dear colleagues, Member Linda Liepiņa has called for the draft law to be returned to the commission. Let's vote on it! Please open the procedure section! Please open the procedure section. So there is an open section of the procedure, and Linda Liepiņa has proposed to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” back to the commission responsible - the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Can we vote? All prepared for the vote? Please call me! Let us vote for the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" to be passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission! Please, let's vote! For - 20, for - 53, for - 4. So the draft law is not returned to the commission. We're still working on the bill. For the Commission... Is that so? Please turn on the microphone for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U129	As all the proposals have been examined, on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" at second reading! Please, let's vote! For - 79, for - 4, for - 2. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U131	This was the second, final, reading. The Commission had not decided on the deadline for proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-15-PT13-2122-U132	I'm sorry! Thank you, colleagues. So, again. For - 79, against - 2, refrain... Against - 4, abstaining - 2. So the law is passed. Dear colleagues, We have therefore examined the agenda for the extraordinary sitting of 15 October this year. There's also a record of Members. It's been a success. I therefore close the extraordinary remote sitting on 15 October this year. In 15 minutes... Colleagues, let us start at 12.00 when we start to review, or we will continue to review the agenda of the meeting on 24 September. Thank you. So the break is till 12 noon.
