ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U1	Dear colleagues, Please, take your seats! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Changes tabled on the agenda for the 5 March meeting Members Arturs Toms Plēšs, Raivis Dzintars, Atis Zakaistovs, Juta Strīķe and Ainars Latkovskis are asking to move the second reading of the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations” as the first question under the section “Review of draft laws”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Linda Liepiņa, Didzis Šmits, Aldis Gobzems propose the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”” to be included on today’s agenda. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about” Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U2	Dear colleagues, First of all, I understand that you may not have had enough time to get acquainted with our idea. And I really hope for your understanding: if you cannot put this bill on the agenda today today today, you will be able to, in a week's time, also consult the drafters and debate this idea, and to decide in favour of handing it over to the commission in a week's time. But about this idea in two words. Every year, about a thousand premature babies are born in Latvia, which according to the World Health Organization and society... The definitions given by the Disease Prevention and Control Centre are those of a child born less than 37 full weeks of pregnancy. This means that these children are a little ahead and, in this case most cases, because they lose... parents of children lose the full state support that would be due to the parents of the children carried and, of course, to the children themselves. We've been faced with a lot of cases... and many non-governmental organisations have also underlined that this issue should be addressed despite the fact that the number of these newborns is small, but each individual case... in each situation, parents experience a great deal of injustice in these cases. And this unjust attitude that they experience is exactly the law that essentially determines that... The baby is born regardless of age, how many weeks, and then he must begin his own life. That's his first year, no matter how difficult the year may be, it's the first year just like the year of the child. Of course, it is clear that there are different situations and there are different children... The age at which you are born... from 500 grams to 2.5 kilograms. But in this case, the child must try to reach those children who have been born in good time in the first year of life. These are very difficult, of course, not to mention the fact that many children have health problems and, unfortunately, ongoing health problems. And that's the first year of life that a child... in which the child must receive not only doctor but also parents' special support, it is very important that the child can carry on in his/her future life... be able to continue their development and lives qualitatively. That is why we have encouraged that the parental allowance to be paid for the childcare period should be extended accordingly for the time for which the child hastened to be born more quickly. In particular, when a child is born (The Head of the Sitting knocks down with a hammer.) In 30 weeks, then, the 10 weeks for which the child lacks up to 40 full weeks are compensated accordingly for the parental allowance. And we have to say that we have, in principle, taken small breaks from the end of last year to resolve this case. We have tried to understand how the fiscal impact could be calculated, because so far, the statistics on the age and weight of premature children have not been carried out for children weeks. Therefore, we had to take into account the child's development calendar, the fruit development calendar after weeks and weight, and then, based on the birth register, which is available on the SPPC website for 2018, which shows the birth weight of premature babies from 500 grams up, we have compared weight to the child's development weeks and drew up the number of weeks that should be paid accordingly to parents whose children are prematurely born. Colleagues, perhaps you don't have to be so afraid of the fiscal impact that we have here, because it's essentially money that's now... Where, like, the kids... rushing up a little bit like saving the state budget. Because if a child is born faster, and most of the children are born exactly when the mother is already on maternity leave, then actually that maternity leave... the payment of maternity benefit is already being interrupted and the childcare period begins thereafter. So I am calling, my fellow Members, for you... I call on you, colleagues, to think carefully about this idea. We are ready for the discussion, and if you are not ready to put it on the agenda this week, then please very much next week to decide to hand over this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U3	The name ‘Pret’ for Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U4	Hello, colleagues! First of all, I should like to thank Julija Stepanenko very much for these tabled proposals for the bill "Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance". What I have gone on to talk about is that we put these draft amendments to the agenda for next week's sitting, because the amendments to this draft law have been received at 9.33, and this is a very important draft law. It is very important for us to be fully aware of this, so my request is to vote in favour of including it next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U5	Are Members opposed to inclusion? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote for the incorporation of the draft laws “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sick Insurance” presented by Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepāja, Schmidt and Gobzem into today’s agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 37, for - 8. The agenda has been amended. ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Regulation as last amended by Not modified... she is included. You're not? I'm sorry. The next item is the amendment to the agenda... there are Members Artusa Neiminiņa, Dagmara Beitneres-Le Gallas, Andreja Judine, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas, Māra Kučinska, Vladimira Nikonova and Linda Liepiņa on the exclusion of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” from the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 5 March. Do Members have objections? ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U6	Colleagues, I have no doubt that no one is against removing the bill, but it is important that you all understand why we are doing it. We finished last week with a bill before the second reading. This is about the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, but yesterday we had quite a sharp and important discussion about adoptions abroad. We received information from the Ombudsman that, unfortunately, there are schemes in our country and children are taken out of foster families, placed in orphanages to enable them to be adopted abroad. We have discussed a great deal of how to act, and we will continue to do so next week. But there is one question that has been raised on this subject. That is, everyone is talking about the best interests of children. Everyone cares about this issue. But what is meant by good interests and its best interests? Everyone interprets their own ideas, their own tastes. Yesterday, the representative of the Ministry of Justice Ilona Kronberga announced that she was capable, ready to develop... prepare the project and... In particular, to draw up a document that will help to identify the best interests of the child. In order for the Government to be able to approve the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is important to record the delegation in the Law on the Protection of Children's Rights. We also want to do this next week. So I ask you to remove it from the agenda today. We will continue to work and we will also be able to vote in a sitting in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U7	Are Members opposed to removal from the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. Members Ivars Zariņš, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Arturs Rubiks, Jānis Krišāns and Jānis Tutins have submitted a proposal to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry” on today’s agenda. ‘ Member Ivars Zarins has signed up to speak for’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U8	Hello, colleagues! First of all, a broader context to understand the importance of this proposal. Competition is the main driving force behind democracy, as in the market economy. For democracy to work as an effective tool for public administration, it is important that this competition is complete. If this competition is not, or is distorted, then democracy does not work as an effective instrument of public administration. That's why, with political... In the world's political experience, monitoring institutes have been set up in democratic countries to oversee power parties, namely to avoid distorting situations where individual political forces have too much political influence, too much power to abuse. And so that it can be counterbalanced so that a democratic state can work effectively, these instruments of parliamentary scrutiny are provided. Parliamentary committees of inquiry are one such monitoring tool. In Latvia too... Latvia has also envisaged this possibility. Unfortunately, the future legal framework created for this instrument makes it a prophony, an absurd one. In reality, this instrument is not working. In fact, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, it is possible to establish such an instrument of parliamentary supervision by law, but then it does not work, because thanks to the regulation that is currently in place, usually the forces that are not interested in such a balance of power, in this responsibility, do so in such a way that this commission cannot work effectively. That is, usually under the chairmanship of the commission, either appoint a person who does not want to investigate or is unable to investigate, or even quite openly sabotage it - sabotage this event. As a result, parliamentary investigation commissions in our country have turned into a laughter, unlike other democratic countries, where parliamentary investigation is really important and always results in significant results. And so this balance of power is being achieved. It is achieved that democracy can work effectively, because there is this full competition, it is not... It is more difficult to implement distortions of competition in policy. It's important... These... That's why I... we therefore propose that this regulation be re-examined with regard to the parliamentary committees, starting with the principle that the Member who agrees to run the commission - he will have to take personal responsibility... will also be responsible for these results. If as a result again, as has been the case once again, as has almost always been the case with all the parliamentary committees of inquiry, there is simply a pointless waste of time, a pointless waste of resources, and usually it is precisely for the head of the commission, then the head of the commission will also have to answer for that. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: ‘ How? ’ ) In what way and what procedures - that is what I propose for further debate. If we agree, in principle, that such a responsibility should be to change this situation of corruption, I am ready to submit these procedures to the second reading - in what way it can look like. There are a lot of options - to the point that you even have (Interior call.) ... Until then (Dep. J. Strike: “Criminal responsibility!” )... up to criminal responsibility. That's right, very precise! Up to criminal responsibility! And then (Interface: “Death ”!) )... That's why... And if, my colleagues, there is political support and you really understand the need for these amendments, if you really care about Latvia as a democratic country, if you want this Saeima to enter history, not just through its permissiveness, incompetentness and irresponsibility, then I think that this is a very important amendment that should be supported, and politically we want to decide that we want this situation to be put right, and then we can then debate how it should look like a procedure that should be the principles so that such an important instrument for democracy can really be provided in our country as well. It is not only important for the country, it is also important for you as a coalition of power, because such an instrument will help you make more responsible decisions, help you not to agree to the coercion, irresponsibility and incompetentness that is unfortunately happening. And this Saeima is very significant with it. That's why I... That is why such a proposal is very important and I call for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U9	Are Members opposed to the inclusion of a draft law in today's work (Minimum: no objection!) “No, yes!” )... Is that so? Please call me! We will vote in favour of including Members Zarina, Dombrovskis, Rubika, Krišana and Tutina's draft laws "Amendment to the Law on Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry" on today's agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been rejected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Not rejected, but not included in this! Is included next!” ) Regulation as last amended by Start to consider the amended (Interim: “Speak correctly, not rejected!” )... Not included on today's agenda. We shall continue to examine the items on the agenda. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Transport” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Radiation Safety and Nuclear Safety” be submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Internouncing call.) There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. We're starting to look at draft laws. And I informed the Saeima, colleagues! Members Kaimiņš, Dzintars, Strike, Zakaistovs, Pavļuts, Ples, Latkovskis, Asheradens, Dombrava and Pucens are asking for the debate on the draft law “Law on Administrative Areas and Accommodations” to be reduced to three minutes at the first time and one minute at the second time. ( FROM a political group, ‘ Ooo! ’ Some Members are applauding.) Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Yes, yes! ’) ) Please call us! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I want to talk about it! I applied for it!’ ) One can talk about, one can talk about, one can talk about. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I applied “for” to talk!” ) “For” has applied to speak to Aldis Gobzems. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “I will speak against!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U10	Dear Members! Our coalition, like on all important issues, shortens the speaking time so that the public does not know that it is the same as the Teika trees when we go on television and shout that we didn't know that Teika tree issue had long been included in the budget. So they shorten so they don't know what they're talking about. I am “for” that shortens not only for three minutes, but for 30 seconds. There's nothing to do here! It is a very short time that needs to be taken. After all, there's a working day... We're already at 11 p.m. The Members of the Saeima can't work for so long either. A little bit of a long time, it's sitting like that. I am in favour of shortening you and showing the public that you are not interested in the public opinion that you are not interested in the public opinion of administrative territorial reform, that you do not have competence on this issue, so you are also able to shorten because you are unable to step up and reach five or seven minutes. But if we are serious about this, then it would actually be just an elementary polite - at least for the first couple of hours, let the original issues be debated, according to the duration of the debate as set out in the parliamentary roll. It would be polite to Latvian society, it would be polite to journalists - let them discuss at least the first hours in the same way as they do in Parliament. But you're afraid right away. You are already afraid before the debate begins. So who are you in a coalition? Fear you! You're afraid of your own shadow. You are afraid of society, you are afraid of journalists, you are afraid of another, you are afraid of everything. ( Internouncing call.) I therefore support this proposal that you have signed for the reason that it highlights the way in which you work. I call on all those who believe that society has the right to hear a full discussion, to vote 'no', and I call on all those who recognise... Anyone who pushes 'for' admits that they fear society, that they fear their shadows, that they are not worthy of being Members who speak fully about such an important issue as administrative territorial reform. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U11	Mr. Viktors Valainis has applied for a speech. “ Three minutes! ” “Kik, but short!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U12	Colleagues! I sent letters to all municipalities last week inviting them to give their views on how they think it is the municipalities to which this draft law relates... as regards the progress of the examination of the draft law... and whether there are any further comments and whether they support or disagree. Here are the answers. And it would be valuable, of course, to meet all our colleagues. I'm also going to send my colleagues. I have already forwarded these letters to the President of Latvia and have already forwarded these letters to the Prime Minister. But the Saeima looks at important issues all the time. But there are issues that require special attention. Administratively, territorial reform is undoubtedly a matter of special attention. And today, in the debate on this issue, Parliament should also respect all those people, in principle all the people of Latvia regarding how this issue is dealt with in the Saeima. The Head of the Reform Commission is proud to have spent 80 hours in discussions. 80 hours! ( Interface: “More! ” ) Question: Does it make sense to be proud that, as a result of the 80-hour discussions, we are seeing protests today across Latvia. We see protests today at the Saeima. ( Milestones.) And with regard to that... in the case of protests. I believe that today the Saeima has actually already enabled protestors to face. Various protests are taking place at the Saeima, but there are, however, those that are very important, which concerns a large part of the population. And as far as I have worked in Parliament, in such situations Parliament is always inviting these protesters to negotiations. Today, protesters were not invited to negotiate. They're treated like savages. Are you out there? We will do what we have come up with, as we do. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col’s intermediate call.) This is the demonstration of power, the arrogance that you are demonstrating at the moment. We have not yet started to debate you have already reduced your time. And I would like to remind you at which moments you will reduce this time. When we are talking about party financing, then we are reducing time, and when we are talking about administrative territorial reform, we are also reducing time. You simply had nothing to say in these 80 hours! (Applause) You have not given answers, so there are also those protests on the streets. Colleagues, I call for this proposal to be rejected and, in essence, today, here in the parliamentary troupe, to come and debate... basically to talk those questions, not just to someone there... a couple of minutes to debate. It'll be two hours, we'll drop for 30 seconds. Colleagues, what are you afraid of? You're on your own! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U13	One has spoken for, one has spoken against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the Member Neimina, Dzintara, Strīķe, Zakatistova, Pavļuta, Plesa, Latkovska, Aseraden, Dombrava and Pucen's proposal to reduce speaking time for the second reading of the draft law "Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 30, abstains. The speaking time has been shortened to three minutes for the first time and one minute for the second time. (Applause) See the draft law “Law on Administrative Areas and Accommodations” at second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Territorial Reform, Member Arthur Tom Ples. ( FROM a faction: “Tell me everything in one minute! One minute!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U14	Hello, colleagues! The commission responsible has prepared the draft law “Law on Administrative Areas and Residents” (Intersacretions: “Time! Time!” Medicines cause noise.) for second reading. A year has passed since... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer. Depp. A. Gobzem: “Do not break the state's treasure!” ; intermediates: “Time! Time!” ) A year has passed since the Saeima decided that administrative territorial reform should continue and here is the result of our work for the second reading. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) At second reading, in which we started to see the issue on 10 January... we have spent more than 80 hours discussing with local government leaders, discussing with citizens, discussing with representatives of non-governmental organisations in order to find the best and most balanced solution for the development of Latvia’s future (Minimum: “Time! Time!” ) and an administrative territorial breakdown. ( Insight: “What is so quiet? ” ) In this (Rolling Noise.) ... Together 316 proposals have been tabled for this draft law at the Saeima sitting, and let us then start by looking at them. Proposal 1 is a proposal of the National Association, which provides for the replacement of the term “district” in the draft law with the term “district” in the corresponding basket. We discussed this issue in several meetings, and we also asked the ministries responsible to prepare an assessment of the impact that could be had if we took such a step and changed the word 'circle' to 'circle'. The ministries of their... they sent their comments. And the Commission decided not to support this proposal on the grounds that significant financial impact on the state budget was left, and it should be noted that business organisations also pointed out that it is difficult to say how big... budget expenditure could be for them, but it would have a negative impact on the whole. And the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U15	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U16	Dear President, Honourable Members! If the chaos is in our heads, then nothing logical will happen to us, and the same chaos will be on the map. Imagine the cost of replacing tablets with “Lenin Street”. So we have a restored state... 30 years ago. We have still not restored the historical name “circle”, we have counties. At the same time, we no longer have the LPIS, but we have the cities of the republic. We still have complete chaos in terms of time. We're not going on state roads to county, but we're going on state facilities, republic, to counties. In 1940 there were 19 counties in Latvia. And until... from 1940 to 1947 Soviet power in these counties... 19 divided. Limbaži County was separated from Valmiera County, from Madona - Gulbene, from Valka - Aluksne, well, from others. And that number was reduced. The function of the poachers before the war was very precise. That's what we're saying now... which should have been in every so-called county or second level, and we don't have second level. So there were some development centers in the districts, an accurate transport scheme, a security crowd. Today it could be transport, quality education and medicine. And, for example, if we're talking about education, then the national gymnasium... How many do we have? If we're four... we are deducting those four national gymnasiums that do not meet the criteria at the moment, then we have some 24. If we take the big cities away, then there's only 13 left. That means: if we had introduced this concept of counties, we would probably not have more than 40, but we would have had some maybe 18-20, a maximum maybe 25. But if we go out of those criteria for quality education, then we cannot collect up to 20 counties. Districts. The regions are completely imprecise, because in Livonia the municipalities were the Lolian territories where the crowns belonged to the regions, and the Livons owned the municipalities. The county was a land... The governor in folk songs is the owner of the land, who can inherit this land; historically we have municipalities and districts. So these are the property that can be inherited. We are now mixing - the county will be the municipality, which is a parish association. Estonia has 15 counties, 65 parishes. I think Latvia will have enough of some 19-25 development centres, quality education. I call for support. Because if we do not do this now or for the third reading, we will actually destroy this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U17	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U18	Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U19	Do Members object to the merger of both times? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U20	Dear Members of the Saeima! Dear Society! There was limited time to talk about a very important issue - administrative territorial reform - because the coalition is as fearsome as raven dogs. When a raven dreads, he comes to the ground and pretends to be dead. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucce: “Funny!” ) But what should we do? We should act like lynx. - far-sighted, smart and erudite. And that is what we need to talk about reform. I can only say about the reform in one example, like this reform. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) I opened social networks this morning. What am I reading there? ‘ I'm looking for helpers in construction. I need to go, I need to go, I need to go, I need to go. Take it from Riga, bring it. The object is located in Saulkrasti. No experience is required.’
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U21	Mr. Gobzem, be... Mr. Gobzem!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U22	It is written by Oscar Dombrava. That's why we have Saulkrastu. In fact, we could have... In fact, we could have the municipality of Dombrava, not the municipality of Saulkrasti. This is the only reason why this way the card is being created. This is the whole story of this reform. In fact, we could probably have... if each Member would live in his own district, the maximum is 100. Well, if more in one, less is there. That's what you made that map around. Is this a state attitude? Does it treat your country only because you, Dombrava, have a house there... Saulkrasti? And that's why you need your own parish? ( The internouncing term: “Princs! ”) ) Is it a state... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U23	Mr. Gobzem!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U24	Is it national to talk about it - let's go to Ventspils (the head of the sitting knocked with a hammer.) Or we'll cut Jelgava... And come on, please damage the state property, Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U25	I am asking you very much for proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U26	What I'd like to say is in this... Clearly, reform is needed, but how do you... you're doing little... as small, selfish advocates of their own interests. You are not doing national things, you are not standing above the place where the Dombrava House is located. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What about those lynxes?” ) This is your attitude towards the people of Latvia. You're looking at what your personal interests are, not what they are...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U27	District or county, please, your opinion. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U28	... not what are the interests of the whole country. ( The utterances: “Let the man speak. ”) The debate is also limited. ) That is the question. And I would be ready to vote in favour of the reform because I believe that we have too many Members in those small parishes where other parishes are for us, for example... Let's take the same Saulkrasti parish. ( Interface: “We don’t have the statute anymore! ” ) There are as many as 13 Members, for example, and they... What are they doing? Like... I would just name it as an example. They make a purchase for the logo. They're making... five thousand are spent on the logo. And I went to Skulte's cappella, where it logos on the top of that cappella. Five thousand have been spent on it. That is how its selfish interests are, that we are stealing our own country. ( Internouncing call.) You steal our country, our people. And that's how the reform, too, would be... you're making it. Why can't you make it reasonable to be... Clearly, there will be problems. Clearly, everyone will not like it, but... instead of going out of principle - there's my house, now there we're going to be rich. This is also a state stealing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U29	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson. I would ask my fellow Members to speak specifically on the proposal and precisely.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U30	Hello, colleagues! This proposal was prepared and supported by my colleague, Janina Kursīte-Pakule, in the Group of the National Alliance, and also presented to the Commission. Unfortunately, she could not be here today, but sent her message to listen to you again, because it is not a formal proposal to change one word. In Soviet times, the prewar administrative structure was disrupted by the introduction of village councils and districts. Is it not finally time to return the pre-war administrative structure of parishes, counties and districts? The poems were an ideal term for what was arbitrarily called the regions in the previous reform of 2008, 2009. There are three stars in the heart of the Freedom Monument, symbolizing our three cultural and historical regions: Vidzeme, Kurzeme, Latgale. The term “district” refers to a cultural and historical unit and to an administrative unit. By returning the “circles” name to the counties, we would not put in one bag a cultural and administrative breakdown, where each has a different contental fulfillment. Irrespective of national, religious or political affiliation, we can make a correction of a mistake a year ago. That's right to say, it also means to do the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U31	Thank you for the precise reference on the question. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U32	Good morning, colleagues! The proposal calls for the replacement of one word. And today we are talking about what lies behind this single word. History, tradition, terminology. The replacement of one word will also lead to a whole cascade with actions. First of all, history's tradition and terminology. We have just heard the explanation of history and traditions of the applicant Member, Janina Kursīte-Pakules. But I would like to draw your attention to the opinion of the National Language Centre on the replacement of this single word. The language centre points out that this does not correspond to the terminology tradition, that it will lead to uncertainty rather than clarity, and will not contribute to a common understanding. The language centre also indicates that this is contrary to the previous tradition of language and history. It is also necessary to assess the impact of the change of one word - whether this change is of benefit to society. The Cabinet has calculated what actions would follow to replace this single word. Changes in 101 law, changes in 400 regulations of Cabinet of Ministers, changes in 19 information systems of state and local government, including address system. The estimate is EUR 6 million, but that is not all. This will also create administrative and financial burdens for business. Direct change of address system. The change of address system will also affect more than a million of our citizens. These are the territories that will be affected by the change of address. Today, my fellow Members, I would like to call on you to vote against the proposal. We do not get clarity, we act contrary to the tradition of language and history, as the State Language Centre points out, and we create an unduly heavy burden for public institutions, the private sector and individual citizen. I call for a 'no' vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U33	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U34	Dear colleagues, Yesterday, there was a people's meeting in Strenčos, where Members were also invited, and Mr Bondara was here, who argued why the reform was needed. And I think he mentioned important words. He said: “The reform is not for humans! The reform is for government!’ And I think that this proposal reflects exactly the spirit of reform. That reform implementers do not think about where in the new map children will learn, where they will receive a high-quality public service, where they will have jobs, how to stop people from leaving the countryside, and so that Latvia does not become a park, dull and other alien hunting. This proposal changes words without listening to the fact that the public administration to which this reform is intended is also saying that there will be huge costs, that there will be a huge administrative burden. Entrepreneurs point out that they will have to sign up to all contracts that have already been concluded and that they will not be helped by the State to cover their costs. Without listening to the opinion of the Committee on Terminology of the Latvian Academy of Sciences, which says that it is not appropriate to change names, even if it has a historical argument, given that there is already a habit (Dep. J. Izalnieks: “The Soviet Heritage!” ), and given that this will create a huge administrative burden... Think, colleagues, about how. J. Interdependence of the trader.) this reform will make life better for citizens rather than fighting for names.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U35	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U36	Dear President, Dear colleagues, In principle, I support this return to historical roots. ‘ I like more than a “area” or “kraj”. I always remember Krasnoyarsk when I arrived in Saulkrasti. The size is not like in Siberia, of course, but it seems to me in general that we are not getting anything from the change of names, because there is a bad situation with the economic system. Let us remember how, for example, the system of the rural council, which was up to 1990, developed. Rural Councils or parishes... formed around the manor. The manor was the foundation of the farm. Around the manor there were farmers... Farms, churches developed, schools developed, and so on - all infrastructure. This then happened both during the free country and during the Soviet period. But now the entire farm in the countryside has been demolished, there are virtually no large economic farms... And farmers no longer have any reason to unite the bottom... structures. Then the districts disappeared. Now they set up an administrative system based on feudalism. It is enough to look at only the proposed Latvian administrative map. We see something like a German administrative system there in the 18th century. There are large regions, such as Prussia. On Latvia's scale, it will be Lower Courland - a territory of 100 kilometres. After that, a little bit of someone there, Virtenberga or Līvānu novads - 100 kilometers... square kilometres. This means that in Latvia next to large areas there exist small... is not uniform in size. It just means that small areas... regions have lobbyists and therefore support the preservation of these areas. My offer - if you want to reform the administrative structure of Latvia, create one... One... territories of one size and then call them states, states, districts, counties - as you want, but above all, to make the size optimal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U37	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U38	Dear colleagues, It is indeed a wonderful and interesting proposal, which clearly shows that the reform is very interesting. (Laughter) Depp. E. Papaule and dep. V. Valainis appeared.) Given that it has just been said that the expenditure will have to be finished if it is necessary to rename the regions as counties. I have to say that the proposed reform will also require... changes in systems, document names, forms, and so on. No one has ever counted this. But it is true that it will also demand its own. Returning to history - naturally, it is an important thing. But, I think, the word “circle” is more attractive to investors than “district”. For there are no other arguments that, here, the reform will promote investor attraction. So I think "circles"... Install... introduction of the concept of "circle" - this will also encourage investors to attract... even where they have long been involved and where they do not exist and will not exist. Talking about reform things as such. Well, to be honest, this proposal 1 already shows that the coalition itself has no idea how to carry out this reform. Because it really is not meant to improve administration - at best. And in the worst case, its reform is not for the people it is going to hit first. But, in principle, the proposal is welcome. Undoubtedly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U39	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U40	Hello, colleagues! Dana Reizniece-Ozola mentioned yesterday's national meeting in Strenčos this morning. It's really... they were able to make quotes during the meeting. I will say to one citizen: ‘ You know, gentlemen, you don’t have to be afraid of the coronavirus (Insight). because you have another disease. You have amnesia. You have forgotten what your profession is. — Dep. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) that you are servants of the people, and that you have promised your constituents, to take care of them.” And what are we doing today? We're proud of the 80-hour--God! - we devoted ourselves to implementing the country's most important governance reform. 80 hours for the people - and what? The crown on the head?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yesterday, one king had already been to us in Strenčos, who was named an actor from the Saeima, who can be proud of only one - the fact that he is above all in height. And that's what happened. People came from the people, and there was one gentleman from the Saeima. Amnesia also applies to the Latvian language. We do not want to do anything to change something in this country. And this example with counties is a bright example. It is important for us to run this reform, to do something in a hurry. Only a brother can come up in a hurry. ( Interface: “25 years! ” ) I offer you to support Janina Kursīte-Pakules' proposal on counties, but to stop this sitting today, to refer at least to the call of the President of Latvia and to postpone the second reading of this draft law for at least two weeks in order to correct what is still to be corrected. Not as you decide tonight on Strenchi. Shame!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U41	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U42	Hello, dear colleagues! Given that the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission really did have this work obvious - to look at any issue - it must be admitted that there have indeed been quite a lot of objections. The overall view is not particularly positive, but the hope that more or less this reform law would be supported is that these proposals could also be adopted in the context of the creation of administrative regions. In connection with this name. Well, two thoughts... First of all, we remember the times of the first free country, where there were two levels - the parishes and the counties; the county was the second level. And the counties once... The county has also remained in the memory of our people as a historical nomination. Somehow that County of Abrene, which was with its territory... Currently, in the restored country of Latvia, it is no longer possible to restore it in the same territory. In my view, however, the name of the nation has already entered the first level municipality. The name “circle”, in my view, should still be retained as a historical name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U43	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U44	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I really want to say thank you to the National Union, because this proposal is in some way a genius. Seriously! This is a virus in this Chamber that has been introduced into the IT system, from which we will not be released during the whole debate on this reform. It's hanged... and the debate also shows it - it has hanged the hard drive. Proposal No 1 has already conquered the hard debate in the Saeima. It shows you. — FRACTY Appreciate. ... It shows how deeply we all have an understanding of what is in general the concept of "administrative division", which is the concept of "municipality", what is the difference between these two concepts. I think we do not understand that they are two different concepts and that they do not necessarily have to coincide. In fact, it is this: I am calling for this proposal to be strongly supported (of course to be supported!) , because I think this is the best thing we can do at the moment, unfortunately, to hug this system. Because if we vote in favour (I also call for this), the next one is not actually put to the vote. And that would be a very good thing - we would take... by introducing the term “circle”, we would be forced to take a break, go home, think, read the history of Latvia. For example, as Mr Kirštein rightly said, the counties in Latvia were - this was the administrative division of the second level. This is what we need now in Latvia. What's funny? In proposal 70, we will return to this subject. With regard to proposal 69, we will discuss that we are travelling by train to Liepaja, but with regard to proposal 70, we will say that we will still fly. So let's look at Latvia's map, as it were before the war, let's understand... Karl Ulmanis, even making a coup... Yes, he eliminated the local government, no longer elected local government, but he never disrupted the administrative territorial division. The poems remained because it was an effective way to manage the state. So that I call on everyone to be responsible, to support the National Alliance's proposal to take a break and to launch this debate on the reform of administrative territories, which we absolutely need. And decisions need to be made from the right end - tell us how much we have... Level 2 administrative breakdown... What we divide, what are the functions that this, second level will answer, and only then can we have some logic to discuss what is at first level. Because only when we know what functions that has left, can we decide how large it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U45	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U46	“The little was the father’s region, but the great kept.” On these lines, I think we will talk a lot about today, too. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “What are you applying for in Riga if “a little was father’s district”?” ) And yet. Looking at how prepared this proposal is... We have the opinion of the Latvian Academy of Sciences, which is available to all colleagues, as well as on the website. With regard to the cities of the Republic, the decision is unanimous, with regard to the word “circle” being shared in these discussions. The Commission played the historian Swab, who wrote that this was the name of the administrative territory historically. And the question is, by its very nature, now put to the Members of the Saeima to the end, let me say openly, not prepared. Because, I remember, in one of the first meetings of the Commission, the Commission was already ready to vote on this proposal, without considering the pros and cons, without listening to the applicants who were the main applicants (that was Janina Kursīte-Pakule). However, we also instructed the government to prepare its vision as far as it could pay off. We also asked the businessman. And many like to talk so much about entrepreneurs... how to cooperate with business... However, operators also point out that this will entail costs. Of course, this will entail costs. There will also be entrepreneurs. This is not fully understood. But what do I do not like most in this proposal? That Members today's vote... the costs of public administration, the costs of ministries are not essentially identified. It may seem to someone that it will be some hundred thousand, but it will be several million. Question only: How many million - 5 or 10? We have not received a response. Today it is proposed to vote on this issue without knowing clearly how much the price of this issue is. In my opinion, the government had to draw up a clear position on how much it would cost the state and also economic operators. But you have to understand how much it's going to cost entrepreneurs. And, in my view, this issue is not really voting right now, because quite simply Members do not have objective information. Nobody has. Everyone has historical research, memories... on what it should be. But it is this proposal that has its fiscal impact! Mr Zakatistova, as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, you know how much the fiscal impact of this proposal is? So much like to talk about the fiscal impact, here's the impact. ( Internouncing call.) The impact of this proposal is not shown here. There is a clear belief in politicians. All due respect to the National Association for their stand for this! But...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U47	Time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U48	... But as far as it costs, no one knows. Proposals are made for a simple vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U49	Mr. Valains, time! We can unite your time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U50	Well, see how, first speech and already restrictions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U51	Thank you. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U52	When the Republic of Latvia was restored, the name was changed from “The Soviet Socialist Republic of Latvia” to “The Republic of Latvia”. It was a cost issue, but it took place gradually, creating different laws. In the same way, this will happen in this case too, as the names of the municipalities will have to be changed. Therefore, I invite you to return to the historical names that the Republic of Latvia used to be, because we have restored the Republic of Latvia and to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U53	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. ( Independence: “A minute... !” Depp. I. An intermediate call. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U54	Mr Janson, I fully agree. All due respect for your position! But for us here the question is what... For your part, you say that historically it has been in Latvia. It's all right. But it's clear here... Opinion received from the Latvian Academy of Sciences on the fact that even the historians themselves did not share a common position on this term; they did not give the Commission a common vision. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Izalnieks: “The history of the Soviets!” ) As regards the cities of the Republic, the following opinion is available: There is no terminology about the counties. I would also like to mention that the issue of counties will also appear in other proposals, because in some way they will have to be created here... If we get there... And the second level of these here... the maakonds. And how will we call them? I asked this (Interface from the group.) ... How do we call it? So that's... “big princes”? Or... Who are these guys? Well, that question really hasn't been answered to the end. Now, I think I can only repeat once again: Members of the Saeima do not have full information from either the scientists or the Ministry of Finance on how much such a proposal pays. The fact that it will cost, I think, at least five million, is clear. Only, Members, when voting, remember that...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U55	Mr. Valains, time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U56	... you also vote in favour of real implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U57	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U58	No, well, let's call or introduce a new... Doesn't matter, the county will appear. So all these costs will be here. It reminds me of... I remember that when the time for independence approached, it was also a debate: "How will it be now when we will be separately and now all the streets will have to be renamed, and people will not be able to send mail? It will be terrible!” Right? Come on, come on. Let's stop! But, above all, why did I get up in the tribunal for the second time, I want to turn to Victor and to the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union. Victor, I understand what you're saying. But this is... Do not miss this historic opportunity to support this proposal and get to it (Interface.) in the epicentre where all this nightmare begins! And straighten the way! Well, I understand what you're saying, but don't let go of this historic opportunity, please! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U59	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U60	I understand the sentiment of the National Association after the ghost of the Russian Empire. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.) You try to insert it wherever you can, everywhere, here, so that there would be reason to tell and frighten Latvians with it: “You see, it still threatens us; we Latvians still need to be threatened and abject in their country.” Now you are doing the same thing as Russia did, and there you have come up with such a setup. They had a militia in the past, and they figured out that they would solve all the problems with the militia if they called it a police. And that's it. And they did so in all seriousness, considering that it would also be a reform, how they solve the problems. Now you offer it - the same move. That's... This demonstrates the level and depth of understanding of you and of these drivers of reform in general. Undoubtedly, administrative reform has long been necessary for Latvia, it is one of the most important things that Latvia has to do, but not in the way you do it. You do it, you know, anecdotic, real anecdotic. I remember what when I wanted to introduce the Latvian quality label, one official understood how to introduce the Latvian quality label, the Latvian product quality label. He said: “What do we need there? I know one drawer, he'll draw it right away, and it's okay. We will have this sign.” ( Internouncing call.) In the absence of laughter, I will explain how absurd this view is. So, with the sign alone, all this is not limited, the bottom must have a whole system (interface.) - the value criteria according to which the mark is subsequently assigned. In his mind, there was only so much: we made this sign, and everything will be fine. It is exactly the same understanding that you have about this reform: let us simply break the line, and everything is fine. We have such a kindergarten level, it's such an irresponsibleness, such incompetentness. Let me explain. What you were supposed to do with this boundary redesign was the most fundamental and most important of all, the competences that municipalities will have in this new... how they will be redistributed. This functional model had to come along. That's one thing. The other thing. And very important. The funding model that this new funding model will be for. Without that, altering any boundaries - it's just a kindergarten, and that's why you deserve this criticism, because people don't understand how these municipalities will function, how all they need will be ensured... all they need. You have made for yourself a crazy raven on which you climb and hit yourself puns - and rightly beat yourself puns. For this reform... Today, when it comes to moving these borders, there was a debate on functions and on funding. What... There is obviously one fundamentally wrong thing that... You should come with me... should be prevented... and come with this reform when it comes to financing... is the way in which municipalities currently receive this funding, which they... are not interested in developing. Because they receive this tax revenue, they are not dependent on how well they develop.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U61	Mr. Zarins! Member of the Commission, Mr. Zaryn, it's over. Thank you. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U62	You won't solve this absurdity.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U63	Please! Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U64	Hello, dear colleagues! I think, however, that perhaps we should explain. And I am glad that Alexander Kirštein has applied to talk about this historical aspect. And I just want you to read... and understand... I quickly wrote what the Wikipedia said about Riga County. And so, the county. Well, what's the county? ( Internouncing call.) The poem is, it turns out, the German ‘Kreis’, the Russian ‘jezd’. There was an administrative unit in the Duchess of Pardaugava (from 1566 to 1582), then in Swedish Vidzeme (from 1629 to 1721), then in Vidzeme (from 1721 to 1918). So... Well, in the Russian Empire for a very long time. Then in the Baltic Dukeship 1918, in the Socialist Republic of Latvia in 1919, in the Republic of Latvia from 1918 to 1940. And in the Latvian General Area, which was during the German occupation, from 1941 to 1944. And Latvian SSR has existed for some time from 1944 to 1949. I understand, of course, that we could restore historical names, and I have nothing against them. I also remember that... It seems to me that one county stretched very far from Riga... If we were to turn those borders into historical ones, then it would be even more interesting. Riga County would be somewhere near Pļaviņas. So maybe if we renew their history, we simply take the Latvian map of 1939 with one! So, I think, a good proposal. Let's go! But then we also support historical maps, perhaps the Soviet time. ( Internouncing call.) Yeah, let's see what history has been like. Here you go before we accept something here today!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U65	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U66	Yeah, I understand the speaker wanted to joking here. We're not just district names in history. Then also, let's say, Vidzeme or Livonia... or Kurzeme is Kurzeme... We will introduce new names right away - Gagarina or Stučka, as we once did, and so on. But I'll just point to Mr. Zarin's mistake. Before you speak, Mr. Zarins, look at some historical data! These counties are not caric Russia... In 1783, Vidzeme and Kurzeme had the right to autonomy. And all the territorial divisions were decided not in St. Petersburg, but on the spot. This autonomy was destroyed later. That is another question. And these counties were built historically from 1783, gradually improved, to the optimum sizes in 1940 - before the Soviets entered into power.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U67	Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time. ( Interface: “Wikipedia! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U68	I remembered another fact without Wikipedia (Interface: “For the first time in life!” ) that we... we... For how many years the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia has been located - where? In this building. What is this building? This building is the German baron of Kurzeme ( Intersorpts: “Courland?” ; “Average!” )... I'm sorry, Vidzeme German baron ground building.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U69	Member Krauze, please...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U70	Well then maybe we are not the parliament of the Republic of Latvia at all, but the parliament of one county, if? And maybe we're changing something else? But, so seriously speaking, yes, I think it's so... It is really ironic that we are still sitting and deciding on something in the symbol of the occupation of German knights. I think that aura here from the Germans is very bad. So maybe it'd be better if we were just in some song stadium, then it'd be much better than this one... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kiršteins: “Incinerate!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U71	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U72	Thank you to the colleagues who have spoken for this proposal. Regarding financial impact. Yes, thank you to all the ministries that responded to the Commission's call and sent their assessment. One of the ministries was the Ministry of Welfare, which pointed out that the financial impact if I took such a step would be at least EUR 250,000. And a number of other ministries also pointed out actions that should be taken in systems, databases and elsewhere to reduce this... So, colleagues, this proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U73	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U74	2. - the proposal by Member Kazinovsky to add paragraph 1... the words ‘or the State’. This proposal, together with the other proposals tabled by Mr Kazinovska, is linked to the second... the creation of a level of territorial governance. It has to be said that we also had a wide-ranging debate on this in the Commission, almost every meeting of the Commission we talked about, and the Commission finally found a final version, and it is supported in the proposals of the committee responsible at a later stage.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U75	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U76	Dear Members, First of all, more or less clarity has been found in relation to the second level of regional governance. However, there are a number of proposals. Some are proposals that relate to... I've been presented, and then there are commissions... I just wanted to emphasise that the creation of administrative regions - this is a very important issue in order to actually smooth out uneven development in Latvia. Of course, this work - to convince - has not been easy, but I am grateful to all those who have supported this idea of regional development. Maybe a lot of people don't fully understand. Setting up regions without regions: this is indeed a repetition of the 2009 reform. But there's a different picture if there are these... real... administrative regions. The essence of my proposal is that it is now in principle either to support the creation of these regions or... Someone doesn't support it either. For the administration... What the future will be, there is no talk yet. I would also like to say that negotiations are under way with the European Commission. This regional dimension is very relevant to Latvia. Latvia has not yet assessed its potential, possibilities if these regions were. But even now, the European Commissioner for Cohesion and Regional Development, Ferreira, has offered Latvia aid of 86 million to two regions - Vidzeme and Latgale. Well, it is positive, but it is, to be honest, our officials and officials' shame that even the representatives of the European Commission understand this unequal development and ask for their own support, but ours do not. Negotiations are also under way in connection with the functions of the ministries... for transfer to regions... Because I'm running a sub-commission... There are several... In practice, most ministries have already provided their visions and also funding for regional functions. So it's happening. In fact, this vote will be... either we are developing regions and rural areas or we are still on an old order. It is only necessary to remember that up to now European Structural Funds funds have been in Latvia such... only because there have been backward regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U77	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U78	I ask you to unite me so I have to talk less again.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U79	Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Time merged.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U80	Dear sittings... The President of the sitting. Honourable Members! If we are talking about the reform as a whole, then in fact, both the previous reform and that reform are practically in 1991... From today's point of view, our predecessor, well, the quite wrong decision to place emphasis on local executive committees, not on districts, as Lithuanians did. And as a result, we are now... Trials and discussions are taking place all the time. That's one. Second. We can talk further about the regions. And I, like Andris Kazinovskis, am very experienced in municipal matters. We were still discussing at the end of the 1990s, we were members of the party, just like the biggest (Intergovernmental.) ... as well as most experienced politicians have been members of Andra Kazinovsky's party... other lots. But there was a second attempt in 1990. And then he could accent on the regions, on the districts. At the time, however, this resulted only in planning regions, and the question of regions, or large counties... At that point, it was missed, which I congratulate Andris. It was also a book with Valdis Stein, I think. But what I want to say today, from today's point of view, is that, unfortunately, those proposals have also remained in 1998, 1999... Because if someone has not noticed, during these more than 20 years there has been a change in the world and there are also changes in both human habits, governance and... In fact, that is what I also objectively criticise for this reform, which was actually trying to re-establish the boundaries of the districts that had to be made in 1991. Then could be fired, of course, as the Lithuanians did... Somewhere there is a center like our Smiltene or Livani, but right now its tracks have been walked differently... We can no longer go back to districts or districts like we have, we need to adapt to how life and the world have changed. I always compare it with the path of the State Revenue Service that has been walked through the meadow. You can already try to turn, put the fences or something, but people go where they go. As with human flows on the impact ranges, there have been significant changes to their centres. Mr Kazinovsky is simply mastery in this proposal. Because to put the country in... Well, that's real... It is the same as a threat or warning. To this proposal we can at all remove municipalities, do not want more, but put each... the governor of the... If we put it together with the previous proposal on the County, then really could create a nest of about 50 people, and from a management point of view, that's what it would sound like... sound and it would be wrong. That's why... But, Mr. Kazinovsky, unless you have a voice in your party... for the purpose of this proposal... Well, we also consider that there could be allies, because it would at least give us a break to correct the mistakes made in the rest of the reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U81	Time. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U82	Mr. Kazinovsky does not make any mistake here. And it's not a strange proposal. This is where I won't agree with Maris Kučinskis. I'll let you think, Mr Kazinovsky is currently testing whether there is an administration of the second level, whether it is 5 or 10... and he'll get an answer right now. And I hope... You and I, Andris, argued once whether it would happen or not... I think you see what's going on. And I hope that the 70th proposal that is related to this, too, is no longer the misconception that anyone can believe. Because I think it's put in there... that sometime in the future we will create a second level... exactly so that you and someone else who wants to believe in it may be deceived. Because, as the MoEPRD officials acknowledged in the discussion on this subject... that, if we adopt reform such as that here, no second level is no longer possible. So, in the best case, the 70th proposal that relates to this is either, let's just say, a man's promise to get the voices today and in the next days, the most likely... But if someone comes and tells you something else... of those who have submitted it, then it's some kind of... attempted destruction of the Republic of Latvia, because by this we say that... and formally we say it... bringing such a proposal from the coalition, by the way, not from the opposition... 70. ... that now we will build this house and then we will dismantle it again, because we will put a second level with the functions that we will take away from those municipalities that are now given this law. So we'll see it right away. I strongly call for support for the Kazinovsky proposal. It's a prerequisite for the essence and... Whether or not state functions will, by the way, be or will not be, it is a controversial question, because when creating the second level, the question will have to be answered - what is the second level administration... If a country can be appointed later, it may also have to be avoided... But this is a guarantee that at the moment we accept it, let's make it... there is a possibility to create it. I call for the support of all those who think state-owned in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U83	Mr Dolgopolov, you're going to have three minutes? ( Internouncing call.) It's not serious. In that case, I request the registration of Members. Name for Maria Golubeva. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: ‘To what extent is it between now and now?’ ) Until 12 noon. Interruption until 12 noon.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U84	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Boriss Cilevičs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Ināra Mūrniece, Ivans Ribakovs and Jānis Urbanovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U85	Interruption until 12 noon. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U86	Dear colleagues, Please, take your seats! Let's keep sitting. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U87	Two comments to the opening. First. Unfortunately, I had not been happy to be with Maris and Andris in one party, but we are united in sufficiently long periods of work in municipalities, which gives us the opportunity to assess the amendments to this law as well. Second observation: As regards the second level municipalities or the second level as such, it should be noted that after the previous reform phase, which was more than 10 years ago, the concept of second level in the law as a rule of law was preserved without any further movements. Why am I saying that? Because it is not very easy to mark the second level of the law as such, without defining how it looks in terms of the administrative territorial section, because in this case we will again accept a semi-finished product. Because it is very important here that in the law itself, which also determines new boundaries of municipalities, new borders of cities, also administrative... a breakdown of the administrative territorial level two. If it remains without consideration today, this means that the very high risk that it will not be considered further. The other problem is, which is not related to this law, but is related to how this thing will look, how it will look... or it's going to be elected... or it's really a state apparatus that's on the level of gums... is integrated into the reform or otherwise... Thirdly. The whole reform should not start with drawing a beautiful map, but with clarifying the functions of municipalities. Because today everyone is just talking about the need to have a new municipal law that would determine certain autonomous municipal functions, but we are creating new municipalities without determining how they will differ from the existing ones. And the last one. The President of Latvia's initiative on the zero level, which also... In the course of its future, it will be incorporated into the law itself, or there will be another law, or in any other way... It's very difficult to think about it. Why do I say all this today? Unfortunately, we are working on a very poorly prepared semi-finished product, and it is not possible to improve it during the debate, just as it did not help to improve it for 80 or 90 hours, which specifically...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U88	Your speaking time is over, Mr Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U89	... the commission set up dedicated to this process. So it would be very wise to bring it back to the draft law commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U90	Mr Dolgopolov, it's over.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U91	... so that all innovations can be incorporated and their errors can also be corrected (Interface: “Time!” ), what is permitted...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U92	Mr Dolgopolov, time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U93	... and what remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U94	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U95	Colleagues! In implementing the reform, for that purpose... Local authorities should be made stronger, economically and socially more able to create them and save government resources if this results in success... Based on the ATR, the authors are based on a study by the Bank of Latvia, which says that such a redrawing of borders can save up to EUR 189 million. But the problem is that this reform does not show with a little finger how it can really save EUR 189 million, because the only argument that has been heard so far is that the number of Members will fall. At the expense of a reduction in the number of Members, EUR 189 million cannot be saved, especially given that in small regions, indeed even the salaries they receive are only a few tens of euros. The second argument that has been raised is that the school network should be organised, although until today the Minister is not able to tell us how many schools will remain and what savings will be made. But, colleagues, savings could indeed be achieved by creating a second-level governance form that would carry out cross-border projects in connection with the organisation of the road network and the organisation of passenger transport, by delegating certain social functions... For example, orphan courts, building boards could be centralised. I have just mentioned some examples, but I could mention others that have already been the subject of a previous discussion. If several municipalities joined forces to implement such large-scale investment and organisational projects, then that savings could be and we could expect them. That is why we would also support the formation of second-level governance on our own behalf. And it is also right that Mr Kazinovsky's argument that much greater investment needs to be directed towards regions, such as structural funds, in order to ensure regional development in principle. The next national development planning document already shows that this government does not think about it, with a large part of the money earmarked for investments in Riga. But what I would not like to do is to make these second-level forms of government an instrument of monetary distribution for the Structural Funds only. Because the current form for this proposal provides that the country will appoint its own representatives, they will not be elected presidents, but appointed national representatives to share the money. Then the point goes away. But the point is, of course, to be supported, and the third reading must be improved.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U96	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U97	Thank you for the support of those Members who have expressed their appreciation for these administrative regions. I would just like to remind you: those regions should have been in the past, even at the time of the previous reform. And if honest, then farmers have also missed it, the previous government should have set up these regions, too. We're losers right now. Now that we are negotiating with the European Commission, we have already lost 1.6 billion. At the same time, Finland, rich Finland... The increase will be 5.1 per cent compared to us - minus 24 per cent. Why is Finland? Because in Finland... are regions in the north, Arctic regions. We in Latgale, Vidzeme... are even less developed than those in Finland, and so they have received this money. If there are no regions, we will not have rural development... and in regions. I therefore say once again that there is no vote on governance here. There's principle here... either there will be, or there will be, these administrative regions. I am asking for support for my proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U98	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U99	Yes, colleagues! On the proposal of Mr Kazinovsky. This proposal provides for a move towards second-level management, such as the management of public services, together with local authorities, at second level. In a way, this proposal also sends an important signal to the entire public administration at present. Do you know how public administration organises its services in the field of transport, civil protection, social, education? The State Revenue Service... As far as these public services are concerned, these services are administered here (Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Forty different cards!” )... Well, 20-30 different formations... How it managed... This is the maps... With regard to this proposal. This would be clearly defined, including the frame of reference, that in future public administration services are organised by the State, the municipality in this particular area. This would also provide a serious basis for talking about the different organisation of public administration services. There's one such public material here... ( Shows information material.) The Committee of the Regions - is an institution that has brought together the regional levels of local authorities. And we can just split up and look. For example, our own neighbours - Lithuania. What about Lithuania? Lithuania has a county, a municipality, and then there is such an institution - senony... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Kirštein’s intermediate call.) How do they support... How they organized them. Cyprus also has a two-level governance model. France, in general, has a special story - four, even... four perfectly defined, perhaps even five levels of organisation of public administration. In Spain - four, in Greece - three. In this case, what the commission has not done - the committee has not offered... and, through this proposal, it would, however, be implemented... to offer a concrete vision for the management of the second level. The draft law now proposed, as such, provides for a return to the old Soviet districts. Like it or not, these are the old Soviet districts. And those who are such parents over me certainly remember how these districts were managed. These districts were essentially the second-level municipality and had a lower governance model at the bottom. I also attended a meeting with the President of Latvia... and that goes in a way with the people's displeasure... In a way, we're taking steps...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U100	Mr. Valains, time! ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Do you want to combine?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U101	Colleagues, I invite you to give me another three minutes... on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U102	You only have a minute. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Yes, yes, yes!” ) One minute. Do you agree? One minute's due. The combined time is another minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U103	I would like to take at least two minutes to this time of debate... ( The box “No! ”) “Yes!” ; dep. A.Gobzems: “Yes, yes! Agree!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U104	No, no. One minute. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Let’s vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U105	Colleagues, this is one of the most important proposals. I call on me to allow me to speak on this proposal for at least two more minutes at this time of debate. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U106	Mr. Valaiņš, we can give you one minute. Please don't delay! ( Insight: “Two minutes he asked! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U107	I took two minutes. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) “All here are equal!” ) Colleagues, I call on you to support, give me two more minutes to speak on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U108	It's a joint decision - one minute at three. It's one minute. ( The ring of noise.) Please use your one-minute useful! ( Interface: “Go! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U109	Colleagues! The President of Latvia had called for this draft law to be dragged down so that it would be clear to everyone what form this administration would take. A number of questions have been raised for this moment, which are just hanging in the air. Zero-level municipalities, second-level municipalities, some community of municipal associations... These are those unanswered questions, so citizens too... protest against this reform. The key to the success of this reform would be to support at least this proposal from Mr Kazinovsky. He bites a very important thing. I, of course, also said to the Commission. For the third reading, I would suggest a little different modifications to this proposal in some way to be able to balance with this here... the existing system and new offer of municipalities. But instead, in the commission... This proposal was reflected in the 112 proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U110	Mr. Valains, time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U111	Colleagues, I would call for two more minutes to allow me to speak. ( The box “No! ”) Medicines cause noise.) Colleagues! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U112	Mr. Valaiņš, please, time! Mr. Valains! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Time!” ) Please do not delay the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U113	But, colleagues... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U114	Mr. Valaiņš, I beg you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U115	Is it not for the Saeima to show its attitude toward it? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Stop!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U116	We adopted such Rules of Procedure by joint vote. Perhaps you will have the opportunity to speak. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U117	But what about voting together? I'm calling now to give me two more minutes, please... on this proposal! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U118	I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U119	( Dep. J. Strike: “Stop!” Impressions. Medicines cause noise.) ... Is that so?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U120	Mr. Valains, please... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “About the process!” ) Please turn on the microphone for Aldim Gobzem. Not enabled.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U121	It's now. Colleagues! Read, please, BIP, Order roller! Such a request by Members is admissible (and must be assessed!) - that the Member asks for time to be added to the specific proposal. Number one. Number two. I would ask the Chairman of the Saeima sitting, Le Galla, to show his party member Strike, who named him “Love!” to a Member. It is a disrespectful Member in this Chamber. (Applause) Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Nemiņš: “Sitting manager! I'm sorry about the procedure... can you please?’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U122	Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U123	It is true, and Valainis can ask for two minutes, seven minutes or 24 minutes. That's how democracy works. And if Valainis has asked for two minutes, then we should put it to the vote or we should put it to him (Minimum: “Yes!” “It’s right!” We give two or seven, or 19. He asks: we have to vote. Unfortunately, that is the case. That is why, please, we are voting for these two minutes. Right, Valaini? Two minutes you wanted? ( Internouncing call.) Two. So two must vote on it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U124	I also called for two minutes, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U125	But in this way, we will break down the rule that we have already voted on. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Sounds like noise. Depp. Gobzem said, "But it is written in the scroll of order." ) Please call us! Please call me! Let us vote in favour of giving the Member Viktor Valainius two minutes' vote! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 38, refraining - 7. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: Get lost!’ ) Name of Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U126	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to introduce some clarity on this proposal and on the 70th proposal. Proposal No 2 provides... on the appointment of a public administrator in regional-level municipalities, if we do so. I call for this proposal not to be supported, but we have talked many times about creating second level regional administrative municipalities in a mixed way, that is to say, for both municipal and public functions... Thus, in the region, these functions are provided by public administration as well as by elected local government either presidents or Members. I will call for support in this case for proposal 70. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U127	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U128	Mr. Adamovich! What Mr Kazinovsky said in no way contradicts what you have just said. This is first and foremost. First of all, I'm going to keep what Victor Valainis said, to whom he didn't give a name anymore. It is not that we do not de facto have a second level country. We have 32 shades for the second level, 32 cards, 32 state direct administrations have drawn their second level. About half of them are with the perspective of Mr Kazinovsky. Five plus minus... Level... in units... The second view I have is around the cities of the republic in drawings of 10... if... And the question is, will this reform, which we are going to decide here today, in some way solve this... Is that so? No, no. And Mr Kazinovsky's proposal is the way to address the main issue that we actually had to solve before we started. When municipalities are unable to do something, we should be able to draw a single card for our own institutions. First of all! I call for support for a sensible, correct proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U129	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U130	Honourable Members! First of all, I want to turn to Member Juta Strike. She is the Head of the Legal Commission (Interface: “On the proposal!” ), one of the highest officials in the country. And I would like to say that we may have a variety of views and we may not agree on different laws (Interface: “On the proposal!” ), but if a Member, one of the highest public officials, cries out in no less or less rude language that another Member has to disappear from the drug and shouts “Deep!” , so that such a Member may be called the Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Call!” ) and he must answer because it is disrespectful to the Member. It's disrespectful!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U131	Mr Gobzem, on the proposal, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U132	I want to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U133	You're speaking for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U134	Then give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U135	No, that is contrary to all the rules. So we're on every...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U136	Give me two minutes! Give me two minutes!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U137	Please, no. No, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U138	I have to vote. Two minutes...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U139	No, it's against rules. We can't. Time's up. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U140	Two minutes under the Order roller.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U141	No, it's not. Please read it. Please read it. None. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U142	What are the rules? Read it, please... Two minutes I'm asking. ( Independence: “We must vote! ” ) Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U143	It shall not exceed one minute unless the Saeima decides otherwise.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U144	But you have to decide now, because I'm asking for two minutes. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U145	Please turn the microphone on the procedure for Member Many. ( Intercretion: “It’s nothing, speak! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U146	Honorary Head of the sitting! I would like to remind you that the third paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure states that, at the request of the speaker, the Saeima shall decide without debate whether to extend the speaking time. That is what Mr. Neighbouring said before that. That means that, without a debate, we are voting, either extending or not extending. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U147	Paragraph 65, read below. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Aha!” (Laughter) Paragraph three. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “No shortening!” ) Unless the Saeima decides otherwise... In this way, we will stop and vote on every paragraph... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “That’s right! We will also stop at every point! That is how we will also stop at every point! You understood it correctly!” ) It is not a constructive act, Mr Gobzem. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “This is democratic action!” ) Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “This is democracy! You have to vote whether or not to give me two extra minutes!” ; the intermediate saying: “No, you don’t have to vote!” ) Good... Call... Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 46, for - 5. ( Milestones.) We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U148	Colleagues! First of all, I would ask once again for support for Mr Kazinovsky's proposal. And in response to Mr Adamovič's comment that this proposal essentially involves the appointment of national representatives... This is not the main objective of this proposal. In essence, it provides for the creation of a second level municipality. It is a conceptual proposal that should be supported at second reading, with a discussion on the nuances in the third. Secondly, on the possibility for Members to speak and justify their proposals and arguments... The law determines the right of a Member to speak. The Saeima can set specific time limits in its order, but, colleagues, the law gives Members the right to speak, to express their thoughts in full and their arguments in full, rather than to blow in here from the platform. ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “If they are fluttering, what to do?” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U149	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U150	For the second level municipalities. It is on this proposal. I think that, of course, the country does not have to intervene there, but Kazinovsky's proposal is good and needs support. And here I would like to see history again. Now... The current draft law has total chaos, and I do not understand that there is nothing clear about the second level municipalities, but historically there was in Latvia. Let's go back, maybe... The poem also had to be brought together here, by the way. Because during the first free country there were 19 counties, four historical districts. Latvia was divided into Kurzeme, Zemgale, Vidzeme and Latgale. And then there were many parishes. In fact, these two-level municipalities are both historical practice of Latvia and in many places in Europe, and therefore, when carrying out and driving this reform, it seems to me, Mr. Pūce and “Development/Par!” , and ministerial officials also had to take this into account, and also make an appropriate proposal for the two-level municipalities, not for the appointed municipalities, but for the municipalities elected by the citizens. Of course, we do not need any governors, who are appointed by one authoritative president or whatever. We need elected municipalities where citizens can determine their own rights. And, of course, in this case, I also find it very unacceptable that these issues are not allowed to be debated by my fellow Members in the Saeima, and that there is, in fact, a limited time to speak. That's why I support Mr. Valaiņa and Mr. Gobzem also said... Today, the Saeima demonstrates that in Latvia there is an authoritative coalition regime. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U151	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U152	I'm sorry! Look at the protocol! I am speaking to this proposal for the second time from the tribunal. Look at the protocol, BIP! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What connection will the BIP have?” ) Follow the sitting with you, not with each other. Follow the reform. In essence, what I want to say to you is that everything... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) Because I can speak as much as I want, Mr. Feldman! That is why it has been established. That's why it's so because everyone understands it, Mr. Feldman... everyone else knows that it's impossible to stop me in this room if? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours Its problem with reform is very simple. The problem with reform is that elementary mistakes do not even want to be prevented. Elemental errors! Or elementary selfish interest. That's all. If these small details you eliminate - about Saulkrasti, about Jelgava, Ventspils, about Valka, for example, or about Izkuli... All, I think we could go further today almost without discussion. But that's the problem that you don't usually want to listen to. You don't even want to explain to the public, because you're not even standing up to explain your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U153	Debate... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa applies to debate.) I had already killed. I'm closing. I'm closing! ( The ring of noise.) I'm closing! I can refuse to close it. ( Milestones: “Let’s vote! Let's vote: continue the debate or not." ) I closed the debate, but if you request a vote, please let us vote or continue the debate. The Umur sounded. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “On procedure!” ) Yes, please! Turn on, please, the microphone member, Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U154	That's about the procedure. After the parliamentary roll, you must say the sacral words: “The debate is closed” before you hit the hammer. And only then you hit with a hammer. You must follow this procedure precisely! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Why should we wait the last moment?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Otherwise, the debate is not closed. You've broken the procedure. Please follow this with the driver! ( The transcripts are: “Rightly! ”) “What article in the Rule of Procedure says that exactly this way?” “I have to watch the video!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U155	I closed the debate at the same time as the hammer. I closed the debate. I have to watch the video. ( The ring of noise.) Please call me! Let us vote on whether we shall continue the debate on Question 2. Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 53, refrains - not. We are closing the debate on Question 2. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? ( The utterances: “Time! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U156	Yes, thank you, colleagues. Thank you for the debate, we debated both... both on this second territorial level and many other issues. I would like to point out, as many of the speakers have already pointed out on the table, that when the Commission debated this issue, a solution was found and the Commission put forward a text in proposals 70 and 105. Proposal 70 provides for administrative regions to be built up. Proposal 105 sets out the way in which they will be drawn up, and a new law will be created accordingly, marking these administrative areas. At the same time, in this commission, we also discussed this issue, how it would be better to organise it, presented the issue to the local government... The sub-committee of public administration and local government, chaired by Mr Kazinovsky, has worked hard on this composition of functions. At the same time, as the Cabinet of Ministers has commissioned, before 1 April the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development must collect functions from administrative institutions in order to understand what to entrust to the second level of territorial administration. The concept of the second level of territorial administration, or administrative regions, will then be developed by 10 September. And this... This year, a draft law will also be presented to the Saeima (Military: “Trust!” ; “Lie!” ) will also define the functions to be carried out in these administrative regions. In the Commission, proposal 2 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U157	Please call me! Please vote mode! ( Interfaces: “The Commission does not support it? ” ; “Do not support!” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 16, for - 52, for - 5. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U158	Proposal No 3 is a proposal by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce, and provides for the exclusion of paragraph 3 of the draft law, which defines the Pieres regions, because this is... Why is this offered? The following in the draft text of the law is not shown as such in the definition of Perry regions. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U159	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U160	What I would like to say is that this sitting in the Saeima has as big a barrack as all those sittings where administrative territorial reform was discussed. And the sitting is coming... the meeting is conducted in the same way as the reform as a whole. ( Internouncing call.) And it is possible that the Saeima will soon have to introduce it as a video recurrence in sports games to see if a Member has applied for a debate in time or not. What is happening here at the moment is simply deplorable. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U161	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U162	Yes, colleagues, this proposal and the next one, 4, the proposal is identical. Next, 4 is my proposal, which has been supported by the Commission, and the Puce proposal has also been supported. However, it is important to mention that one applicant and the other have a completely different motivation to submit such proposals. And what's point 3... So there's this list, what's... Looks like the Pirty Districts. In my view, the list contained in that verse is not correct, so I have presented my vision on how to list Pirty Countys... and in general the question of the municipalities of Pierīga. The Minister also, with his proposal, actually says... He does not solve the main problems of nature. Because it's pretty if you've studied... Where are the problems of Perry municipalities? Who knows? What kind of person is interested in this? Local governments are now being taught that their problems are with each other - Marupe and Babite, although there are no problems at all. The main problem is Marupe and Riga. Cooperation with Marupe and Riga. In this case, there is no vision; there are only attempts to get away from this problem. I call on you, my fellow Members, to support this proposal, but think yourself (and perhaps the head of the commission could tell it on behalf of the Commission) about these motivations. Motivations are completely different. One simply closes that there are criteria out there, because the law does not appear anywhere else. In my view, overall, the approach to the municipalities of Pieriga should be different. I will talk about this in future proposals. At present, the problems faced by Perry municipalities with this reform are absolutely not even addressed. The municipalities of Riga and Pierīga... there is a major problem. Not Marupe and Babite. The problem is Riga with Babite, Riga with Marupe. And those... There is no absolute offer of solutions. Colleagues, the whole draft law addresses the problem of Riga – zero. There has not been any mention of this issue at all. I would ask you, my fellow Members, to reflect on this. This merely shows how low this reform has been developed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U163	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U164	We cannot disagree with Mr. Valaiņa that problems of the Riga agglomeration are not really covered by the law. And when it comes to the municipalities of Pieriga, the same pretty absurd principle is applied that the big one is better than the little one. Perry municipalities, their main function is: sleeping districts, Riga sleeping districts. If you look... look at the statistics on these regions, they are all self-sufficient. They all give the municipal equalisation fund, and almost everyone has... population growth was observed. That is why this problem really exists, and the exclusion, as has been mentioned... because the law is not yet there, it only shows that this draft law is not prepared as he should be prepared, because Riga’s agglomeration is also a municipality. It's about reform, and it's about... There are many problems in municipalities, but these are not problems for mutual municipalities, as Mr Valaiņa quite rightly pointed out. These are very different types of problems and other types of problems. And when it comes to the same municipalities that are near Riga, there is no and it cannot be said that there, let's say, there would have ended the big investment in industry or another... economic sector development. Their main function is the standard of living, a healthy standard of living for the population. And it's really a bedroom function. And it is clear, equal and equal in all capitals in all countries, and there is no difference here, except that there is no word in the law about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U165	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U166	If something is suggested on behalf of the Commission, then I think I should explain to Mr Pleis, however, to the end why this concept is being deleted and what will happen, because... Well, we set up an ATR commission, there is one Member from each political group, and it was not possible for all Members to go and take part until 300... and how many points, 80 and how many hours if. And in this case, we actually come together, we decide and vote something without understanding the substance of the matter, because the documents that are attached to the Saeima's sitting also contain only a table and are not explained. Since all thewitnesses of the law are no longer valid, all the criteria have been removed, we are now voting simply, so to speak, on the blind, without knowing what we are deciding. And I think that's not right. Members must have full information and also an explanation as to why we are making such a specific decision. Therefore, in this case, too, I would like to explain exactly what will happen if this clause of the law is deleted and there will be no longer such a concept as "Pierīga regions" because physically they will be here, next to Riga, just as it was, the border will go, for example, on the side of Garkalne there will be a new region of Ulbroka and the border will go along the street, which, by the way, is illogical, because in any case it would be logical from the point of view of planning administrative territory it would be logical that the borders go along watercourses if. So maybe you should also have looked more widely in this case - either to take a part of Riga, to give back to the new municipality of Ulbroka, but maybe you should have moved the border even further, for example, to the bypass of Riga. So, I think, there are many different issues that we, the majority of Members, do not know. We do not know how they have been debated by the Commission. I therefore call once again on Mr Pleis to make clear, in concrete and clear terms, so that we know what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U167	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U168	Colleagues! This proposal is a very vivid illustration of the meaning and logic of the whole draft law. Is that so? Is there any point, is there any logic? Because, of course, we could remove this point from the bill, no longer use the words ‘Practical regions’, but what does it change? Because my offer would be - well, let's not use the "Pierīga district" anymore, but let's introduce another terminology, let's call Riga a superdonor... Let us call a few more Pierīga municipalities as donors and the rest of the country, and the other municipalities as recipients. The main problem with this draft law will not be solved anyway, because there was a problem here with whether the current equalisation fund is fulfilling its function of developing Latvia regionally, in a balanced and overall way to develop Latvia's economy. Tell me, what is the difference - or 119 regions, between which there are those who pay and pay for other regions, or 40, between which there will be those who pay all the time, and those who accept this assistance? There's no motivation here. All right, we will create more regions, but what will be the motivation for the leaders of these municipalities to develop their economies, to develop their own businesses, to attract investment, because they still have to take into account that part of their money will be returned to the Equalisation Fund? And on condition that the government can change the rules at any time. And they will never know what the effect will be, how they will be able to fulfill the promises they give to their constituents. It was a fundamental problem. The whole problem with this bill is money and the sharing of money, and the drawing of a map will unfortunately not help here, just as your current vote on whether or not to leave Perry regions. This will not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U169	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U170	Colleagues! The situation with the Pirty regions and the planned changes in them is, in my opinion, an excellent example of the lack of consistency in this reform. Because the argument that we need the combined municipalities that are mentioned is to build stronger economic units. Those who cannot take care of themselves should be added to a development centre or municipalities that can take care of them. We can see that this principle is not respected. It is based on self-sufficient areas that do not need another development centre. You connect municipalities that have nothing to do with them, such as Marupi and Babite. What's in common with Marupe and Babite? Is any of these left behind? What do you need a helping shoulder from another municipality? Oh, no! If you would like to help these regions by nature, then really deal with the issues they care about. For example, a network of schools and kindergartens where... well, it's one of the rare examples where there are more children than it is possible to place them in kindergartens and schools. Public transport. Make a relationship with Riga, so that it is not that the municipalities of Pierīga and Riga live in two isolated worlds, knowing that many people live in Pierīga and work in Riga. These are the issues that should be addressed. Colleagues, I think this is also one example of how you draw borders not really with the meaning of making Latvia stronger and building stronger municipalities, but with the purpose of drying out how we, as our political power, will be better off in future municipal elections. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Right!” ) And that is sad. And then something else is interesting... Yesterday, at the People's Meeting in Strenčai from the Ministry, which is actually the author of the reform, a nice, simple official was sent, not the Minister himself, but who had no mandate to answer questions. And, colleagues, did you notice that today we are seeing the biggest reform of the current government in the Saeima? And the prime minister's chair is empty. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “I am sitting!” ) The neighbor has sat there. You will answer for all your sins. If there's any luck, maybe Puce will come and say thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U171	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U172	First of all, I want to know about the previous one. Of course, it was not voted because there was this second Commission decision on administrative regions, which will have to be further voted on. But also for my proposals, thank you to those Members who supported. I was only surprised by some counter-opinion, such as what Mr Adamovič said, that this is where the level of governance has been incorporated in these proposals. No, no. This makes it possible to decide in the future what the regional level will be - either the municipality, or the administration, or the formed common. These proposals should not include this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U173	But, please, for proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U174	About Riga municipalities. Yes, I listened, and I also followed, and I also debated the reform commission on these issues. I heard all the parties, of course, also the municipalities that took part. I have a lot of questions about Riga, too, because one thing is to declare that we are creating regions that must be self-sufficient... This applies to the entire territory of the country away from Riga, but, as far as the counties near Riga are concerned, in my view, they should have been left within the existing limits, because they are doing the normal work (Friction's AWARD). their functions, and I did not support the assembly of Riga municipalities. But let it also remain for Members to decide. However, I would like to remind you that the main thing is the equalisation of the country, the equalisation of regional differences, including between regions, and the equalisation of living standards. That is the aim. Are we doing this? I don't think so. And basically the equalisation instrument is the Law on equalisation of municipal finances. And there are these donors - local governments - and also those who receive. Currently practically all municipalities of Pierīga, districts are donors. For example, I cannot understand why this system had to be mixed up. If, let's say, unites Babite with Marupe. I know that this service-related mechanism is working perfectly. Building permits and similar. I know that entrepreneurs are travelling to Marupe and building, because, for example, in Riga it is difficult, but in Pierā it is... provide these services more effectively. There are many unresolved issues. But now... I support these proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U175	Mr. Kazinovsky, time is up.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U177	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U178	Dear colleagues, This story reminds us more of a situation where the owner of a large apartment house, in this case Pūce, convenes a meeting of the owners of the apartments about the choice of box coloring, and while the residents argue with each other, someone actively dries through their apartments. And in this case, I think everything... The whole of this bill would be really appealing to the Constitutional Court, both in view of what is happening today at the Saeima sitting with the reduction of the period of debate of Members and all votes against so that Mr Valaiņš could express his views until the end of the draft law, as well as the fact that the Members who were not part of the political groups were not at all entitled to participate in the work of this excellent 80-hour commission. We simply do not have such rights, so representation from the Saeima was not fully guaranteed. And, colleagues... No, it wasn't our choice. You, fellow Members, simply do not understand how much damage you are doing to your home country as a whole and how terriblely big a division policy you are currently pursuing in Latvia and in all regions. And what's happening... in the context of this reform, there is also a threat to national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U179	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U180	I am in principle joined by Dana Reizniece-Ozola and I would like to emphasise in particular that - is there any developed democracy in a world in which a major reform in a country - a fundamental reform! - the responsible minister wouldn't come to defend himself in Parliament? It is just as there was no real discussion with people on the spot. This is also not the case between Parliament. Well, there is no country in the world where the minister would not have to defend such a reform and every point would not have to explain that question if. It just shows what kind of country we actually live in. That's one thing. The other thing. Of course, it is strange that in the future Ulbroka will be at Baltezer and the Soul will be at the Baltic Sea if. That is, of course, a little weird. I agree that we need to reduce the municipalities. I agree that we need to reform. But I do not agree that you are undertaking a reform exactly as you are managing the state. And you do the reform by managing the country, thinking only about how to put more in your pocket. And an example of Dombrava’s house in Saulkrasti is an excellent example of why Saulkrasti municipality is located. ( The box “Speak on the Proposal! ”) ) That goes just as far as any other question is concerned, that we will draw a territory, not a national one, regardless of how much we put ourselves in our pocket, but just how much it will be more beneficial for our specific political power. And that's little. It's not statehood. Such politicians should not lead the country. I agree that reform is necessary and I agree that it is possible to correct these details, including for the third reading. But it is quite clear that you will not. It is quite clear that you are not interested in the public opinion. It is absolutely clear that this reform is wrong because it does not include education and everything else. And finally. It is quite clear that you will get him corrected. You will get him corrected precisely for the reason that there can be no decision to set up a district where the Member has a house. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Laaik!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U181	Mr. Gobzem, time! Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U182	You see, if we were to create an administrative breakdown of the second level, this debate would be absolutely unnecessary. It would be Lielrīga County, no matter how we would call him, in which city Riga with its surrounding municipalities will solve all these issues that we are addressing today. A review of a certain funding model, obviously a factor should be taken - not only where you live, but also where you work. Accordingly, transport issues, kindergartens and all other issues would be addressed on this basis. There would be no problem. There is only such a problem that we will not build the second level at the moment. The rejection of Mr Kazinovsky's proposal proved this. Mr Plesh's comment on paragraph 70 and the related paragraph 105 below... is best case bluff. I really hope it is a bluff and, after this reform, if we accept him, it will be found: "A, yes, the second level is no longer possible, because all the functions have already been divided into the first ones." If it is not a bluff, then it is already a crime against Latvia, because what we are doing right now - we are building a one-storey house, completely - completely! - building a single-storey house, putting a roof, all communications, draw everything and say that, in accordance with paragraphs 70 and 105, we will immediately build the second floor. Let's build a second one that goes beyond the first one (Laughter) ... No, seriously. We can laugh, but that is exactly what is now being offered. But when we return to the specific proposal - let us build the second floor or not - the name 'Pierīga county' is strange, and I will support... I'll support his strife... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.) In that sense, yes. But the essence is completely different.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U183	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U184	Colleagues! I would like to touch on something that my colleague has already touched on. Who is the proposer? The Minister for MoEPRD has tabled this proposal. Minister of VARAM Pēteris Pūce. And I think he or she is. A. Neighbours: “ Pēteris Puce?” )... Yeah. Peter Puce. (Laughter) (See the box below.) I haven’t seen him in this commission, but only once he came and did not sit down. ... He didn't sit down to the end, and then he left immediately, at the end of the first day. We spent all the rest of our time in our two lives. The minister had been given a government mandate to speak on behalf of the entire government, but it was not given to the ministerial staff who were there, so they could not speak on behalf of the entire government. That's why I called him Peter Puce. Because I just didn't see him on that commission. She's not here today. , and shame for a minister who drives this reform without himself being responsible for it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U185	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U186	Reform, funding of your parties, budget, everything else reminds me of an old anecdotes. That anecdote is about that... and then I will conclude with a conclusion. The Head of the Foreign Commission of Georgia and Latvian Parliaments meets, and the Head of the Foreign Commission of Georgia says: “You know, it’s typical of us to steal brides.” And the Head of the Latvian Foreign Affairs Commission says: “But, you know, stealing with us is characteristic at all.” (Laughter) That's about looking at every issue, even here, stealing some territories only for their personal interests. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) In fact, it is not national. And with regard to the proposal, Mr Pleis, you should climb Juris Pucem here and explain why that is exactly for each proposal, and also for you personally, as the head of the commission, on every proposal, and you are not doing that! ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U187	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U188	Yes, I am very sorry that Mr Gobzem has not seen that I have explained the Commission's position so far on every proposal, but that is the case. With regard to this specific proposal here, which is supported by the Commission, it is, of course, that we can write about anything in the draft law. ( Intercretion: “You are already doing that! ” ) I don’t know, unicorns we want, we want something else, but what makes sense to it if you do. (Excellently.) ... But what a point it makes (Interior: "For the Commission!" )... But what is the point of this, if it is not done in the law and nothing is determined by the law? This is very important. And, as already noted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in the Commission, the problems and cooperation of Pierīga regions with Riga will be addressed in the law on cooperation between Pierīga municipalities. So, colleagues, this proposal has been supported by the Commission. ( Insight: “Who is this? ” ) I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U189	Members agree? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. T. Ples: “You need to listen to the committee sittings!” ) Members are in favour. ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “WOMAN, go away! You're not voting too! What are you doing here?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U190	Thank you, colleagues. Consequently, 4. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal is supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “No vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U191	Let's start a debate. There is no vote, but the debate is permissible. Please! Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U192	Yeah, thank you for the previous one. Consequently, this proposal has been supported irreversibly. But I'm the head of the commission... I'd like to turn to him. You have just said, on behalf of the Commission, "The Law on Good Cooperation". What is this beast? Awesome co-operation... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. T. Ples: “We need to listen to what we are talking about in the Commission!” ) Law on co-operation. Where we were in the commission about something like that... Is that so? Law on Cooperation between Local Authorities. A separate law on Co-operation (Internext.) ... The proposal. There was a story about the proposal. ( Milestones.) There was a story about the proposal, not a new one - the Law on Ranger Cooperation. Colleagues! Why are you misleading the Saeima here now?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think that was not a story at all. You were simply wrong at the moment on behalf of the Commission. I am in favour of this proposal, unlike the one tabled by the Minister for Varais... I had a completely different motivation. My motivation is that this sort of division, which has been proposed, should be ruled out here, and I will also call on you, colleagues, to support the other division proposed. For the third reading on this draft law here, if you still support this draft law today or tomorrow or tomorrow at second reading, there will also be concrete proposals for how more these ideas... What Mr. Pelles said about some new law yet... This law has already been passed. And, in my view, all the details had to be sank at second reading. What Mr Kazinovsky also spoke about is such an eye-catching, and hope that at third reading we will begin to decide on conceptual matters... On level 2 municipalities at third reading talk... Well, colleagues, you know, come home! Well, that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U193	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. ( Independence: “You don’t have an opinion! What are you coming here?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U194	Dear colleagues, You can strangle, you can leave the Pieris municipalities. It does not matter, but the problem remains. And it will not be possible to solve it with the draft law named by Mr Ples, for one reason, because this draft law, even if it becomes, will be the greatest folly, more than much else that comes out of the walls of the Saeima. It is not possible to write its norms into law in Pierīga municipality for cooperation with Riga if we do not create second level municipalities. If we have formed its own municipalities, then it has to be said separately. You can talk about changing the borders of Riga. And why not? Why not leave the status of capital only for Old Town and divide everything else, say, give the right bank to Ažiai, and give the left bank to Jurmala or Marupe. There is also a solution. Then, too, there will be a number of cooperation problems. So, by offering other solutions on behalf of the Commission, we also need to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U195	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U196	Colleagues! According to MoEPRD's parliamentary secretary and head of commission, why these proposals are there are, in my opinion, clear... it is clear why it is necessary to allow Members to speak from the floor here, because if even the word written is the same, the meaning behind it is completely different. And I understand that at the moment, too, a large number of Members and, I accept, those municipalities in Pierīga today had a news of hearing that the meaning of these proposals was to rule out Perry regions as a concept... is to establish a new law - Law on cooperation between municipalities - and yet to design some new structures for cooperation. This also shows once again that the process of adopting the reform is very poor. You have not, by nature, followed the principle of the Charter... the principle of the municipal charter: if administrative territorial reform is to be implemented, the municipalities must be consulted and managed. Yes, form is less important, but meaning is important - that consultations are in substance, opinions are fixed and decisions are taken into account. Several municipalities, including, for example, the municipality of Babite, mention that their consultations have not taken place so far in substance. What has happened is an authoritative view of the Minister without protocols, without recording opinions, without a serious intention... to listen to and take into account decision-making. I would very much call on the Minister if he is sitting somewhere on the computer at the moment, wasting the popcorn and watching this Saeima sitting as such a show of reality, to come here, too, and to argue on all the proposals that have been made in this bill. Explain once again the meaning of the reform so that we get its answers, because otherwise it looks like we are... We are now implementing a reform here in a free fall, which... I don't understand how it can be developed afterwards. Because there's no guarantee that you'll still be here... in a few years' time, you will be able to draw up your own laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U197	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U198	I have one acquaintance who had not only a wife but also two favorites for one period of life. And he shared with me (Mornings: “Ooo! ” )... And he shared with me one such secret that he gave all three women the same smells to avoid the traces of secret communication. What we have just heard about the future Riga and Pierīga Law of Cooperation is a reminder of precisely this here - the traces of prohibited communications. This shows that outside the Saeima, outside the Saeima Commission, there is some kind of discussion of secret relations, plans are being made. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakatistov’s intermediate call.) I think that in 2021 we will see the consequences of these plans. And these consequences will depend only on one of the consequences of the extraordinary elections in Riga and the municipal elections in 2021, whether between Riga and their new management, and the leaders of the new municipalities of Pierīga will form these... special intimate relations. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U199	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U200	Colleagues, I noticed that when my colleague, Mrs Lochmele-Lunova, mentioned my favorites, there was a worrying start especially in that corner. I don't know why. (Laughter) Thank you very much. But I would like to answer Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola for Mr. Pouce. I understand why Mr. Pouce is not here today. Because he can't convert it into his 200,000 big advertising campaign. Here we will have to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U201	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U202	I just wanted to say one thing - a very small one. Mr Plesha said “Pierty Local Government Cooperation Act” rather than “Pierty Local Government Cooperation Act” (Pierty Local Government Cooperation Act). The Law on Perry Local Government Cooperation! I understand that it has been decided to bypass Riga. (Laughter) It's up to you. Perhaps the Island of Rones needs to be attracted within the framework of a transnational cooperation project. I understand that you are going to probably, however, to lose their elections in Riga, that you are starting to bow down, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U203	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U204	In fact, this reform is a butaphoria. Something needs to be done, and then we are making a reform. And I really understand why this butaphoria is being implemented in the form it is being implemented. Because when it is completed, Prime Minister Kariņš will be able to come out and say that we need to make structural reforms, because we have a problem, like... how to create problems in the financial sector (Interface: "What is the proposal?" ) and say that we have to make a major repair. The same is true now with the reform. Why is it a butaphoria? Because... as I understand, when the reform is carried out, it would be clear, fair (and it would be right to include all the issues related... and Minister Pucem to say clearly and easily: “We will cut down in municipalities... this municipal sector, let's take 50 per cent." A fair, clear answer is: "We will do this in parallel with the education reform, and in future we will have education in this way." That would be understandable. Just the same way about health care. And then it would be logical. 119 municipalities are clearly too many. It is clear that the municipalities of Pierīga are self-sufficient. And that's why it's not understandable why you want a butaphoria right now, why you don't offer the whole set - unpopular... Yes, it may hurt some group in society that they will be released from office and so on, but the whole set will immediately. Not to say that "we will think about the second level of municipalities", but to do this at once. And maybe because it's a butaphoria, there's neither a minister here, nor a head of commission... does not allow for any debate on these issues. I do not understand that, I would like to hear those arguments - why exactly this way? Because I would be very happy to vote for the reform, very, very happy to vote, that we would have fewer municipalities, that we would have a smaller public sector and that we would have much richer people, including outside Riga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U205	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U206	I really like how... how to propose to prepare a new draft law on behalf of the Commission, deleting this here... Proposal No 4O of the Council of the European Union on the Law of the Republic of Lithuania on the Law of the I then think, but what will be the Perry municipalities? And then maybe again we will return to the Soviet times when it was Riga district? And then I began to think: but then also my municipality, my parish, where I live... I'll be at last in Pierja again. And I really think it's all the stupid things you're talking about here, because in this way we can get to the situation... like that after the previous reform, where it was also said that sometime later there will be counties, we will talk about the counties... about something. Well, where is it? It's not anywhere. And... In 2009, the reform was, now it is 2020, we are making a new reform, no counties have been set up. And it reminds me that we really dream of something... It would be like we'd now build... decide to build a new library, but all books from the old National Library would be taken out of the Vērmanes Garden and covered with film... and we'll build a new library right away... and after 10 years, we would conclude that all of its books are rotten and fit only for the fertiliser of the park. And just as with this reform, which you have driven: it will only be suitable for fertilisation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U207	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U208	For example, about 25 members are employed in the municipality of London or Toronto. It does not lag far behind a small municipality in Latvia. That's not what you're going to be at the party and you're not telling me how you're going to cut the number of Members... not only the Member, but how will you reduce the huge protruding sector that is there. Yes, you are not telling it, because it is unpopular, although it is necessary for our society. All business people are talking about this. Those who produce taxes talk about it. And even if it's unpopular, the public would understand it, but you're afraid, you're just trying to figure out... but be honest to come to the tribunal and say boldly: “There will be reform! In municipalities, we're going to shrink... in the municipality, the number of employees per half, for example, because we cannot afford as a country." Start with it, with such an elementary thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U209	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U210	The head of the commission has just given information about a new law, which is becoming applicable to the municipalities of Pierīga. Okay. In Article 70... In the 70th proposal, I am sorry, it has been mentioned that there will also be another new separate law on the exercise of the functions of state and local government... where administrative regions are established. All right. What new laws await us, and how can I, as a Member, get acquainted with the overall picture you are planning? Maybe you... whether Mr. Pouce should have come here with a report so that we understand... Even though the people who are outrageous about this reform at the moment understand how... what you're going to realize, how long... Now give us some road map, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U211	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U212	You see, colleagues, and here is one very important nuance that the drivers of this reform are now trying to hide from society. — Insight. , which Mrs Liepiņa has rightly also just pointed out why this road map is not being given, because, look at the situation. These Pieris municipalities... Well, which is... which feel very good, and the fact that they... they feel so good, it is not the merit of these municipalities. It's Riga's merit, it's just... To a certain extent, they simply parasite to Riga... at the expense of Riga and is able to provide for himself this well-being. And what if you start to debate it before the Riga municipal elections, you know what the consequences of the reform will be for Riga, then I assume that... You may not be in Riga City Council at all, and therefore it is very important to them... It's very important to hide... hide it, separate it and say, “You know, there will be a separate bill, we will talk about it after the Riga elections.” I therefore call on the public, all those who are still listening to this debate today to follow and think about what is actually going on with this reform and what are the drivers of this reform, what is the purpose, how openly, how clean and, above all, how competent and meaningful they are in carrying out this measure, so that you can understand well when you vote, what you are voting on and what the consequences you can have for yourself and for all... both the state of Latvia and the municipality where you live.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U213	I closed the debate. Please... on behalf of the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U214	Proposal 4 has been supported. 5. - The Commissioner's proposal, John Adamson. Not put to the vote. ( The paragraphs are: “What is the law? ” ; “No!” ; “What is the law?” ; “Disable!” ) Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U215	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U216	Yeah. So the 6th is Mr Valaiņa's proposal. He called for the addition of Article 1 with parish associations, as appropriate. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U217	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U218	The drivers of this reform mentioned as one of the things... One example was that such a model works in Ireland. Let's see what model works in Ireland. The management region of the Irish municipalities... in five sections: region, county, city, city and municipal district. It is managed by the territories in Ireland, to which this reform refers. The drivers of this reform forgot to mention... that, however, there is an even lower distribution. This proposal, which I have tabled, is actually also being discussed in fact, including the initiatives of the National Alliance, about these parish associations. Why did I submit such a proposal for parish associations? In other words, if we try to separate the responsibility for lower issues in a territorial way... places closer to the population... which is, in fact, one of the greatest challenges of this reform: how to ensure that people remain attached to power... In this case, it's very... Let us still talk about this, but there is a very large number of people who will lose this link with power. In this case, if we just find some form and say: where, here, this will be the first level, we will get to those parishes. Most likely, we can reach the parishes. But at the parish level, I think it wouldn't be wise... define it, because at the parish level it would be too small... too small a country would have been if some powers had been given... elected parish administration or something like that... It is therefore necessary to establish in law a terminology where parish associations can be formed. And by building parish associations, we would get much better, more successful economic units. In my view, these parish associations should be given to the newly elected council itself, for example, the new Limbažu Council itself determines where these parish associations will be located, where the population could wish the exercise of primary functions closer to the population. If supported, it would also give a lot of answers as to how this reform could function. There is no response at this point in time. Unfortunately, there are these protests - I say - against this reform, because you have not already answered the territories in which representation will be ensured, in which way they will be able to decide on the municipal issues that are most direct, closest to the population. And... Unfortunately, there is this experience of remoteness from the previous reform. At this point it rise is offered... We will be one of the leaders in terms of the size of the territories in the European Union.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U219	Mr. Valains, it's over.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U220	Yeah, I'll keep it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U221	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U222	We can support or not support Mr. Valaiņa's proposal, but the parish as such existed in Latvia for several centuries and the number was also measurable in hundreds, now 500-600 and more parishes. It is not a matter of making it compulsory for every parish to have an elected administrative institution. It is about the fact that the parishes have historically been, are and remain on the map of Latvia. Naturally, a large part of them have long since died and long since lost their population on the course of emigration and other roads, but that this is the case and that it must remain... Undoubtedly. Mr President, by the way, without calling the parish, he called the same idea... formulated. It would therefore be wise to retain this concept, perhaps not as an administrative function, but as an element of administrative separation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U223	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U224	I support this proposal and also call for the vote in favour of the proposal tabled by Viktoras Valaiņš, because indeed this reform will in fact distance power from the people. And it seems to me that it is very important that the people themselves will no longer feel that they are connected and that they will not want to participate as actively in the political process in the future. And actually, citizens' participation... Political participation is very important. Because in this way they see that something can be changed. We know for ourselves what activity is in various desires... For example, in the elections to the European Parliament, where there are very far away our elected Members and all the laws that... In fact, most Latvian citizens understand that nothing can be influenced... There's... We beat 30 percent of our beaks. And if we find ourselves in a situation where a very small part of the population can elect some representatives, then they are no longer representatives of the people, they are not representatives of a particular district, and people simply see that they can't influence anything. And in this case, I think you really have to think about... whether it is a level of parish or parish associations or, in any case, the population can decide on certain things on its own, not... Imagine, now you offer to create regions where there will be... there are districts, where there are almost 100,000 inhabitants, where there are almost 100 kilometres from the corner of one region to the other. That's... how the citizen at all can feel some kind of involvement of elected persons that, for example... addressing local problems. Now those Members will never know... For example, look... the new novads of Cēsu. It'll be very big. On one side is Straupe, on the other side is Vecpiebalga. Well... I have Straupe next to me. Looking at Riga, I know better what's happening in Straupe, I think... than those who live in the Old Reward. And now this link will never be... and this representation, of course, will be very small of these small regions, because let us not hide the fact that, when we elect representatives, Members in the local new district councils will, of course, dominate its territory - either it is a city or it is a municipality - where there is a larger population. And so I think we need to think about it. It's a zero level, it's this community of parishes... how citizens could be more involved... direct participation in political processes and decision-making. I therefore call for support for the proposal by Viktoras Valaiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U225	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U226	Colleagues! I know that the President of Latvia is also the authority of the coalition. And this is one of the aspects that the President has mentioned in his letter to the Saeima: that the objective of administrative territorial reform must be to improve services for citizens, and the other is to ensure that citizens' democratic belongings to local communities and also represent them. After the administrative territorial reform, as it is now estimated and as the law provides, about 90,000 Latvian citizens, the inhabitants of smaller municipalities, will lose their representativeness. And the fundamental principle will be violated. They will be forced to pay taxes, but they will not have any tools like... so that they can decide for themselves how to use their taxes to improve their communities, their lives and their well-being. And that is why I should like to thank you that at least the colleagues of the National Alliance have proposed the creation of so-called zero-level municipalities, emphasising that these representation rights or opportunities should exist. Mr Valaiņa's proposal, in my opinion, is also sensible in this particular context. If zero-level governance forms are being developed, if you are given the opportunity to put forward your position... which also deals with economic issues of local interest, then it is reasonable to allow these community representations to unite. And that's the idea - the idea of parish associations so that there would not be about 600 different administrative units, that's... However, to become larger if citizens so wish and if they see that this way they can better exercise their rights of representation. Colleagues, I call for support now, at least, for this proposal. If not, step up here, triple, and argue why not. Otherwise, it seems strange that the Minister is not here, and only Mr Kazinovsky speaks from the coalition. Is it really that you said you wouldn't talk at all? That you have already agreed on the outcome of the reform or have sunk somewhere else? Fear to imagine! Well, I forgot, Aldi, thank you too. You got up once too.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U227	Colleagues! It's time for a break. ( Internouncing call.) You're going to have one minute? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmidt: “I’ll do it!” ) Please! ( The box “No! ”) ) The name of the Member Digim Schmit.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U228	I want to say it quickly. Now it's like we want to build a cellar, well, that's the level I understand... But don't worry about coming back to the house, but there's going to be a second. What is now the first (Interior call.) It'll be the first one, we'll build partitions there, and everyone will be fine.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U229	Colleagues! Time for registration. Please register the Members! Name to read the results of the registration to the Member Maria Golubeva. Interruption until 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U230	Has not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Boriss Cilevičs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Ojār Ēriks (Interface: Yes!) ) Mountain... There is, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Janīna Kursīte–Pakule, Ināra Mūrniece, Ivans Ribakovs (interim: “I was!” ), Vita Anda Steel (interface: ‘ Yes!’ ), John... There's steel, John Urbanovich. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U231	Dear colleagues, Please take a seat in the Chamber. We are continuing the debate on proposal 6 of the draft law on the "Law on Administrative Areas and Populations". Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U232	Dear Saeima! This proposal, like a number of other proposals that have been tabled in the context of zero-level governance, has been dealt with by the Commission and we have voted conceptually that these proposals will have to be taken into account and incorporated into the overall administrative territorial reform. The Law Office was followed by a statement that these proposals are not in conformity with the law, therefore together with VARAM work has been started on specifying the functionality of the electoral order of the parishes and city councils. And on this point, I really believe that the dividing line between the position and the opposition should be removed in a way. The Livani Municipality is a model for this zero level management, where the Union of Greens and Farmers is in power, which has created a very well-functioning model in connection with the administration of the parish within a larger municipality. With the only exception that we would see these municipalities and cities being elected by the authorities, while in Livani it is more or less appointed. The National Association also considers that this issue is critical to the success of the reform... success, and we will not give up on the fact that it must appear in this reform. Of course, we would have liked it if it had already been incorporated into the joint offer with which the Minister came... with a reform offer to the Saeima, as it would certainly also have facilitated discussions with municipalities, which would then understand more clearly the practical functioning of municipalities after administrative territorial reform, i.e. which issues will have to be addressed at district level, which will be addressed by people at parish level, at urban level, and which issues will be addressed at regional level, and others... which issues will be addressed at national level. We will not give up on this, and I really hope that together we will be able to develop a qualitatively functioning so-called 'zero' level.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U233	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U234	Thank you, Mr Dombrava. In our municipalities, which are governed by the ZZS, such models are indeed already working. Why do I think that this law, however, would have the right place to do so now? All of that legislation, as well as such essential issues, should be decided before the second reading. This issue is quite important for the successful management of the zero level, and I think nothing would be wrong if we were to support this proposal at the moment, so that it would also... I agree with the Legal Bureau's arguments, but I will just remind you of the discussion with the President of Latvia. He also said that it would, however, be better for these things to be dealt with already in this basic law, and I fully join it in this basic law - these things should be dealt with in this basic law. This will help build successful zero-level municipalities. Without this proposal, there will be a great challenge, as we will do further at third reading... or something different.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U235	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U236	I think we've got a tough problem with the elevator because it's... Well, I don't know, I've never known the historical explanation, but what is called the first floor in Latvia is usually called the zero... I mean... French res-de-chaussée... Whereas ‘on the side of the road’, do you not... I simply support the two-level municipalities. If we call one a zero, one one a go, but we don't make three. Well, one's not enough. Three are already too many. We've almost said there's gonna be two, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U237	I closed the debate. Please... in the name of the commission, what is to be said?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U238	6. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U239	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 8, for - 49, for - 2. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U240	7. - a proposal from the Legal Office and 8. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal is identical. They define what is an administrative territory. And these proposals are supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U241	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U242	Hello, colleagues! Section 1 of the draft law currently under discussion, which is discussed in the proposal of the Law Bureau 7 and Viktoras Valaiņa 8, defines the concept of administrative territory, but later Article 3 of this law provides for the division of Latvia into two types of administrative territories – cities and regions of the republic. This means that the centre of the municipality as part of it will not be a city of the republic at the same time. The four cities mentioned in the proposal 12 to 15 are directly affected by the construction of the norms: Jelgava, Ventspils, Jēkabpils and Valmiera, which, according to the draft law approved at first reading, will lose its status as a city of national importance. It follows from Article 5 of the European Charter of Local Authorities that changes to the boundaries of local authorities are not allowed without prior consultation of the respective authorities. On the other hand, it is clear from the Charter's explanatory report on Article 5 that the unification of municipalities and their citizens is an exceptional occurrence and their views are therefore essential. Therefore, it is natural that in its statement on the continuation of administrative territorial reform, the Saeima instructed the Cabinet of Ministers about the draft administrative territorial division to consult with local governments and only then submit a draft law on new administrative territories to the Saeima. It was clear from the annotation of this draft law submitted to the Saeima today that the task of consulting has been carried out in honour, and consultations with local governments have continued in the responsible Saeima Commission before the second reading of the draft law, already Members continue to evaluate the new territorial division of the state. At first, citizens' protests in Ikšķile and Rujien caused some concern about the consultation process, but it was also clear to everyone that this kind of situation would not be avoided during the reform. However, there was growing concern about the opinion of local governments in the media that consultations in the Saeima were only a previously staged theatre in which local government opinions were not interested, and this is just a follow-up to the conclusions of experts from the Council of Europe that in Latvia consultations with local governments during the reform process are a fiction that is organized instead of consultations, but (I quote now) “a unilateral communication campaign to provide information about the reform, the main directions of which have already been defined in advance”. ( End quoted) I became convinced of the validity of such opinions personally when I attended a meeting of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, which discussed the unification of the municipalities in Zemgale. At this meeting, municipalities had the opportunity to express and ask questions, but there was no discussion on the substance and no answers to the questions asked. Later, when discussing with representatives of Kurzeme municipalities the process of consulting about the creation of the new Ventspils municipality, I received a painful confirmation that in relation to the reform in Kurzeme, the consultations were very formal and the opinions of the municipalities were simply not interested in anyone, but the representatives of the government tried hard to turn out, avoiding answering the questions asked.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U243	Mr. Wucaan, time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Vucanas: “Please for another minute!” ) Do you want to... Do Members object to unification? None. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U244	Everyone who listens to this message, for example, the audio recording of 7 February 2020 of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, when representatives of Ventspils Municipality and Ventspils City Municipality were heard. To conclude, I support the proposals made by the Legal Bureau and also by Member Viktoras Valaiņš on what is an administrative territory within the meaning of this law. However, since I will not be able to participate in the further discussions on this draft law today due to the mission approved by the Parliamentary Bureau, I am bound to argue for maintaining the status of the Republican city for Jelgava and Ventspils, which, while discussing further the content of the concept of "administrative territory", will be discussed in Article 3 of the draft law from 13 to 15, which I would like to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U245	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U246	Dear Members, Thus, this proposal from the Legal Bureau reads: “The administrative territory is the territorial division unit of Latvia in which the municipality exercises management within its competence.” What was my proposal? The municipality or state - there was this difference when discussing the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. I do not really understand why only and only the municipality can be an administrative territory? The counties of Latvia, which were the second level... they were public administration... administration. Similarly, in many countries, the Eurostat classification of regions varies from one country to another in Europe, from one country to another, from one country to another. And that's the problem. I think... I will be ready to submit these proposals once again for the third reading, because if, let us say, we are in favour of this only, but we remain with the Commission's proposal that administrative regions will be created, but we do not provide here as territorial units where regions, cities and the third could be administrative regions, then I have to ask: what will be these administrative regions in the performance of the Commission if they do not have an administrative department here in Article 3? What are they going to be? And the other thing. We now have negotiations with the European Commission. We are always calling on the negotiators, representatives to emphasise the reduction of these regional differences... integrating the regional dimension into the negotiation process. If we incorporate this law, which is fundamental law, basic law, administrative territories, regions as administrative unit, then they have reason to talk about regions in Latvia. If this is not the case, then this possible draft law on administrative regions, which will then become after that, because the negotiations will last until the autumn... Or maybe by the end of the year... that commission just won't have anything to refer to. There will be no administrative regions. I therefore say that in Article 3, which will then be seen, administrative regions should be made mandatory as a third entity behind regions and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U247	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U248	This discussion clearly shows that a good idea, which is not packed in the norms of the law, remains only as a good wish. This is what I have just said about, that the creation of regions or the creation of a second level also requires an appropriate response in this draft law, because (The Head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) the version proposed by... I can also speak louder if I need to. The version proposed by the Legal Office is absolutely correct. But it does not include a further breakdown. The subsequent division into this version also provides for the creation of municipalities with the same rights and operating rules at regional level or level 2 as for the first-stage or first-level municipalities. That is why I say once again that it is a semi-finished product, to put it mildly. A better way to say, it's a brother. And one more thing. In this regard, the Charter of Local Government. Undoubtedly, today... to this day, the municipality was not involved in the reform process itself. They were only listeners, observers, and critics. If they were involved from the very first step in the planning of the reform and then in the drafting of the law, there would be a different response, and there would be a different course of developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U249	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U250	This proposal shows in a way... The legal office has also acceded to it. My next proposal is also supported. But what are they about? We offer a clear definition, which is an administrative area. Definition of the location of the administrative territory. The draft law that you supported at first reading proposed a completely incorrect definition. It was an attempt in some other way to express, more precisely... But there was a model lesson in this kind of creativity... where just submitted by the Ministry, as if considering what is then this... which is then an administrative area in general. With this proposal, we will make it clearer. And in response to Mr. Kazinovsky... Mr. Kazinovsky, maybe that way? With us... better there, there we listen more to such ideas. But in this case, this version is a model of first level municipalities. This version is on the first level model for municipalities and it applies to all the proposals that will follow from my side regarding how to build the first level model for municipalities. If we follow such a path, then there are the same level of municipalities. It turns off... either up or down, it simply turns off at that moment. And there I fully join you. You rejected a county offer a moment ago, but there will be room to correct this error... or to improve and, nevertheless, to talk to the second reading about what these multilevel governance models might be. I will discuss the other proposals later. Now, in support of this, we come to... we're talking... and that is what you, fellow Members, must understand - we are talking about a model of single-level governance. It's no longer possible here to rise some zero level, the second level. And that's why I hope... support, but there must also be consistent votes on further proposals, where I will call on you. But think about the levels.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U251	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U252	7. - The legal bureau's proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U253	Members agree. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U254	And the 8th proposal, which is identical to 7, was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U256	9. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau is identical to 10, which has been submitted by Member Viktors Valainis, and the law defines what is an inhabited place. Both of these proposals were supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U258	So the 10th proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U260	11. is a proposal tabled by Mr Kirštein, a Member, to change the concept of "city of the republics" into "large cities" in the draft law. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U261	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U262	Honourable Members! In Soviet times, the name “State of Latvia” or “State” should not have been used separately. The country was only the USSR, and the rest were only republics. The Soviet jargon created new sayings. Since the word “republika” could not be used together with the word “Latvia”, it had to be said without the word “Latvia”. So just a ‘republika’. It was also possible to use “LDSR – the Soviet Socialist Republic of Latvia”. We couldn't go on national roads, but we had to go to the republic, to our republic. Also, some say: “We... I went to our republic. I visited our republic here, met with the voters.” We're in the republic and we've been on the national road. State-of-the-art, if. In Soviet times, however, people had not forgotten the Latvian grammar and had a lot of smarter things, for example, the children's hospital was not called the LSSR Children's Hospital, but it was called the Republican Children's Hospital. Because the republican hospital could have been, but the republics could not have been, just as the monarchy hospital could not have been. Just as we cannot drive on the road of the monarchy, we cannot travel on the road of the republic. Thus, either we change here, as well as the President recommends in his letter, and we use the concept of “the big cities” or “the big cities”... if you don’t like it, you can say “national cities” or “national cities”, but then it’s a question: what will be those small cities? In that case, they will not be the country. Therefore, in my opinion, this name, the big cities, is more appropriate. And if that is not the case, then we have to say “the cities of the Republic of Latvia”, because the word “republika” can only be used in the independent state with the name of the country, so it is either “Latvia” or “the Republic of Latvia”, but it is not a republic as such. Just like no monarchy. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U263	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U264	Dear colleagues! Rainis has once said: “We will be as large as our will.” Or - the Latvians have a proverb: “Little cinitis are glowing big pieces.” I think that, within the framework of the reform, it will not ultimately change how rich we will be, how big we will be, and how great afflicting we will be if we call cities large or small cities. This is a completely secondary proposal. Number one. Number two. Everyone has a very different understanding of what is great and what is small. In the context of the world, there are no cities in Latvia that would be large objective. I would therefore call, Mr Kirštein, on this creative task, if it is the most significant administrative territorial reform and it really will change everything... There are young people here, they have come from Liepaja... to make a contest. Young people are creative people; they will come up with much better options to introduce. Why am I saying that? Because, in principle, I think we should end up suffering from undervalued complexes if we also want reform. And, for example, we had a relatively good model of governance at the time, unfortunately in Soviet times - the districts and then the second level below the districts. Now we think of a new bike, what to name, what to rename. We do not have to think of anything new, we need to take what has worked well, we need to put something into practice, we need to adapt a little to today's situation, of course, not to the situation of the Dombrava House in Saulkrasti, but to the situation in general. This would be a national solution. Like Valka, for example, if, everybody... Nobody else wants to visit Valka, well, I can't understand why nobody in Latvia wants Valka or something like that, but then the solution is very simple: we come together, we figure out that Valka should be placed at Smiltene or at Valmiera (Interface: “At Liepaja!” ), and the problem has been solved. It is very simple, but you have to debate it, you, position, get into the tributary and debate it, but you are not already discussing it with the public or in Parliament, you are not explaining to the public these little things that are actually... Well, as we know, life consists of small things, small things. But every small thing makes up a big thing, so there is no big city or small city. All cities in Latvia are large. And Latvia is a big country, and our will is great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U265	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U266	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to talk about monarchic or some other roads, because it's a matter of taste, because it's a road - whatever he calls it - so that only he can go. But speaking specifically about the specific proposal as a rule of law. metropolitan is a characteristic. Call - the big city or the big city. This is a characteristic to be measured in specific units. For example, in Europe... Riga as the capital by territory is the second largest city in Europe. If we are talking about population, naturally, it is not. Therefore, what is offered is perhaps not the best one - “a city of republic importance” or “a city of state importance” - but we are talking about a specific proposal - to call cities of state importance or cities of republic importance as metropolitan cities. I believe that this proposal cannot be supported. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U267	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U268	Yeah, well, this proposal is... The Latvian Academy of Sciences has clearly stated that such an approach is to be supported and that this name should be changed to... from ‘the city of the republic’ to ‘the big city’. The President has proposed a ‘national city’, a ‘metropolitan city’. Well, my question I would like to draw attention to. The rapporteur could... maybe it will add, but it must be understood that if we change this terminology, then it will change... it will have to change, either, a certain number of other laws, where the term “town of the republic” is used. But I'd like to ask you to think about another thing. Why do we need a terminology like "the city of the republic" or "the big city", let's call... Let us use the “city of the republic” in the law. Why do we need this sort of split separately? What difference does the law make between Valmiera and Cesis? What's the difference, colleagues? Why... What is the difference between the city of the republic and any region, from, I don't know, Limbaži? What makes all of this different? There is a certain difference. And the biggest difference is not in the title itself, but it is the public administration in the way in which public administration organises its services in these specific areas. There's that major challenge. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “You will have to change the name of the society!” ) And, in my opinion, with this proposal, we are already in substance... Nothing will change at all; there will be some disappointment for entrepreneurs, either in the areas concerned, but also minimal. In this case minimal, not as large as it was with the counties. But with regard to the meaning and role of the big cities at all, here I would also call for consideration from the point of view for which such a term has been used by law. I think we will also start a debate on this very soon. And, my fellow Members, I also call on others to make sure that this does not turn into such a monologue of the opposition today. However, we are talking about how the country will be managed, and at this point I just want to thank the colleagues of the National Alliance, who are, however, involved in these discussions, because these decisions will be going on... I think that the coming decades will have an impact on the development of Latvia's country. So that in what direction it will be depends directly on you too. And think of the meaning of the big city at all.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U269	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U270	Yes, my fellow Members, I support Mr Kiršteina's proposal, and I would also like, however, to see that we all understand. I've looked at what sort of division that is for us. There are 76 cities in Latvia. What we have at the moment - really 9 cities and 67 regions of the republic. But why... What is the city of the republic at all? All these are Latvian cities. And if we look at the breakdown below, then the cities of Latvia are listed below. These are cities in Latvia. Of course... see where the word “republika” is written. ‘ Latvia is an independent democratic republic. The sovereign power of the State of Latvia belongs to a nation of....’ These are thus concepts that are enshrined in the Constitution - both the ‘republika’ and the ‘state’. And in this case, cities, all of them are Latvian cities, are larger and smaller, but I want to say that small cities are also very historical... so to say, long history and established a long time ago, and I feel that leaving such a “city of the republic” is not at all meaningful. Indeed, we can tell what the big city is, we can define what kind of population a large city starts in Latvia's sense, whether it is a territory, or it is a population... But, for example, I found it very interesting if we looked at the cities, there are also cities, such as Pilten, whose city status was acquired in 1557. Well, do we doubt that this is a city? 905 people live there. Yes, she has the status of a city, and it is a historical fact that so long ago this populated area has acquired the status of a city. I think it should be maintained. Yes, she is one of many cities in Latvia, and therefore leave the concept of "republikas miestas"... then, indeed, there can also be a'republikatic', and in this case I support Mr Kirštein's proposal and call on others to support and vote 'in favour'.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U271	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U272	Colleagues, style matters! If, for example, there is a reform, then sometimes it is just as important as what is being reformed - as it is. If, for example, we are sending a Member, Martin Bondar, to the People's Meeting as the lead and defender of the reform, who tries with a huge arrogance, a sense of primacy, to humiliate those people who have met, then logically, that those people at times are experiencing such... I feel like... which also reflected what they said yesterday... that in the early 1990s they made barricades to defend the Supreme Council, but now they have the feeling that they have to make barricades to defend themselves from the Saeima. In this case, when we discuss – “the city of the republic” or “the big city”, “the metropolitan city” or “the state city”, then to some extent without historical considerations, without an attempt to get rid of sovietism, either... we also think of style as it sounds. And it is worth listening to the President's assessment and also the Latvian Academy of Sciences that this name should be changed. But I am much more concerned about the name that you are actually giving up two big cities in the context of the reform. You will add municipalities to Ventspils and Jelgava without criteria, but you will not do it to Rezekne, Liepaja, Jurmala, Riga and Daugavpils. No arguments why it is. And in fact, for two major cities, you will not be able to participate in European urban agendas. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “There is a difference!” ) You will deny the possibility of attracting funding to Latvian regions to create jobs there, create wealth there and prevent people from leaving.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U273	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U274	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Victor Valainis asked the question - what is the difference between Valmiera and Cesis? It's like talking about big cities. I can tell you, colleagues, that one paid Viktor Valaiņš' salary - Valmiera - and Cesis did not pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U275	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U276	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you a little bit about the importance of the big cities. When Latvia joined the European Union in 2004, she decided that Structural Funds would be used in a sectoral context. This has happened, and in fact so far. Then the Association of the Great Cities, which consisted of the nine cities, of course, began to lobbying their interests and, for example, during this programming period it became clear that these major cities had specific funding... was intended and still exists. With this funding, these major cities developed from the European Structural Funds and from the country. And everything you see in Valmiera or Daugavpils or Rezekne or Liepaja is based on this funding. There was also 21 development centres. They also received specific funding. And there was another Latgale program, there were 52 million, also Latgale received separately. For the big one, it's... a system in which funding for development has been decimated. But if you look at the essence, then this decimated funding is invested in some particular places, points, but there is no balance throughout Latvia at regional level. There's that dog buried. Now, when preparing NAP, there are no longer these big cities... special programs, there are 21 of the... and there is no Latgale programme. It's known... positions tried to leave. Our proposal for regional development seems to be being observed, theoretically, there are written objectives, but in practice these projects are reflected, they are not. That's why... Once again, I stress that the creation of these administrative regions is... fundamentally change the whole system, including the lobby system, including the so-called interest system. Either we stay with the old or we go through the regions again - that is the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U277	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U278	Colleagues! I have to say, if we are talking about the term “republikas miestas”, then this term is almost not used in everyday conversations, let’s say, unlike the word “districts”. If we look... specifically to their term, then he is more of a legal nature, because it marks the different types of competences that cities in the republic have to perform - whether there is a public transport organisation, the time in which... the speed with which emergency medical treatment is to arrive and other aspects. This proposal is, in a way, similar... what we have already voted in the context of the change of the word "districts" to "circles". Of course, this impact is not so great if we change the word “district” to “circle”, but in this case also there would be a need to change about 200 laws, laws and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. And, of course, it would also have some financial consequences, so that in the Commission we also discussed this. Perhaps you could find some better term, because the word “great” here was also a dispute. From the expert's point of view, maybe we could find something at third reading... some more successful solution. But in this case, I would call for the proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U279	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U280	Honourable Members! It really seems that we want to sink this reform in any case, if. If we go from 109 municipalities to some 40 at the end of the day, we will have to change thousands of regulatory documents, in any case we will have to change software, we will have to change programmes in SRS if. Well, what are you talking about, Mr. Plies?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now with the big, the little ones. We are talking about the big cities within the meaning of this law, Mr. Gobzem. We are not talking about a big or small cup or, for example, that Zilupe is bigger than Paris. We are talking specifically about the big cities within the meaning of this law, but there are no criteria. The Commission has not developed and chaos arises. And we would talk about Jelgava if we had these criteria. Does a large city begin from 50 thousand or 40? Or maybe from 25 in Latgale if Rēzekne is there? Or maybe from 50 to 50 in Kurzeme, let's say Liepaja, maybe from 40 to be Ventspils? I don't know. It must be drawn up for the third reading. But if there are no criteria, then we will end up...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U281	Time! Mr. Kirstein, time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U282	... Immediately at Jelgava, other problems and all its reform will collapse.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U283	Mr. Kirstein, time! The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U284	Colleagues, I also support Mr Kirštein's proposal, and it is sometimes that we are trying to name something, but maybe to ask those we are trying to name what they would like to call? In my opinion, the cities have responded. We don't have associations of cities in the republic, we have an association of big cities, which includes cities in the republic, which is... So that I call for support. This is one of the primary reasons, but the other is also a little bit like to say, in a more detailed sense. When we say the republics, we start thinking... either, someone associated with the Soviet republic, or not, someone with Latvia, someone with someone else. But when we call "the big ones", then there will be a very interesting discussion on the next points. And in what way Rēzekne will be big and Jelgava will be small. So... but in principle the first argument that the cities themselves have named themselves, and I think they knew what they were doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U285	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U286	Dear Members, from the end. I almost join in what Mr Gobzem called for - until the third reading, to think further about how to solve this issue. I would like to see a little bit of history saying that the name coming from Soviet times is a republika (The Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer. Depp. A. Geidan: “Do not break the state's wealth!” )... “the cities of the republics” have irritated all very long times and this consultation is neither the first nor the last, and she usually stood against... and still stands only against this name here. If we plant in front of that there are some local governments at the level of Latvia, however, the largest flagships, with which Latvia is fighting not only in internal competition, but also going internationally... The last time the “great cities” appeared, now, translate it into English and then go to Belgium to see how you can explain Rezekne, for example, to other cities on the international stage. And then he refused. The President, too, of course, draws attention to this, but still, here, to be honest, 10 years have not found replacements, so I think we should try to put a break at the moment and really think about how to deal with it, because it was at first... Mr. Bondar is there for their association... Well, the joke was meant, but at first there were only seven cities, then two more by number... At the moment, there is also the question of what is the first city to be granted their national status. We have come up with a name at the time - centres of national importance, but it does not rely on legislation, so it can be supported, it can not support this proposal, but it is probably not a point. Maybe you should really join Mr. Valaiņš, maybe it's time to make a different grade, but if you agree... and I understand that these are discussions at the moment, then don't say anything stop at the moment, but... the competition is open, but “the big cities”, as I said, a little, a little... Well, it's a little hard to digest. At local level - yes, but internationally rude.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U287	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U288	Dear colleagues, While you are discussing here whether we have republics or big cities or how big, or who, I would like to read to you some numbers, at least those who are able to capture them. Some time ago I led Certus, one of our studies was a regional demographic forecast. In particular, a model was developed that actually provided a fairly accurate forecast of what will happen to the population, including in republics or big cities, by 2030, in those cities that are now under dispute. I'll tell you what that forecast was if... We now have data on... That is, from 2016 to 2030. And then I'll tell you how about today, to 2019, this forecast has come true, so as a percentage, if. For example, Jurmala had 51 thousand inhabitants in 2016, a forecast of 50 in 2030, already 49 thousand in 2019. So the forecast has already reached about 200 percent, if so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaistov: “A poor prognosis!” ; dep. A. Geidāns: “Propose something!” ) So Ventspils - from 40 thousand to 32 thousand. For the time being, that forecast has already been fulfilled by 75 percent. Liepaja - from 79 thousand to 59 thousand, today its forecast has been fulfilled by 50 percent. Jelgava - from 61 thousand to 57 thousand. The prognosis is over 43 percent. Rēzekne - population decline forecast has reached 55 percent. Daugavpils - the forecast has already been fulfilled by 42 percent. Jēkabpils - 50 percent. Valmiera, 40 percent. So, colleagues, while you are here discussing how to cut Latvia better and whether its cities are republics or big ones, or how, the population is going down even much faster (in just four years) than it was expected by 2030. That is how your regions are cut - it will not help in any way. Perhaps, therefore, it may be worth ending cutting down on the map and starting to look to what will really stop people from leaving the regions. What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U289	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U290	You know how to explain reform and reform? It's like in one old Latvian proverb that coalition, they're going like a Riga Jumprava with their nose in the dunes. She doesn't explain to the public, she doesn't come and she doesn't. And by the way, it is not done by two candidates who want to lead the municipality. Well, the administrative territorial reform, as it applies to the municipality, but Jurash and Staķis - they can't say anything about the reform at all, no words. What will they be mayors if they are unable to say anything about the reform that affects all municipalities, including Riga? ( Internouncing call.) It's proof that these people are only on advertising poles, that they have no opinion on how to live in municipalities, how to live, what needs to be improved, what proposals... And they'll be the mayors. Do you believe, society, that it will be? In fact, Juard has been intercepted into his phone, Dep. A. Muižniece: “On the proposal!” ), she's not interested in what's going on here. Thank you. ( Interface: Victor!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U291	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U292	Two comments. It can be called what you want, but here again it is that there are no criteria to determine what is the big city, the medium city or the small city. One point. Two points. If we are talking about these things here, I would like to say to Mr Ples, however, that this is not linked... the name of the cities in this context is not linked to public transport or to anything else, it is related to the place of the municipality, the municipality in question, in the structure and system of public administration. Point.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U293	The name to Member Martin Bondar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U294	Mr. Kučinski! The opposition wants us to debate, we will debate. We're also ready to debate, but in my first part... I'm not kidding anything. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) Mr. Valains! Mr. Valains! Mr. Valaiņš received remuneration from Valmiera, but he did not receive remuneration from Cesis. It wasn't a joke. There was nothing out of it. ( Intercretion: “A wise man also did not exist there! ” ) And I just want to say. Here, some of those who run, trying to run me and say that there is a difference between five and three minutes, I want to say that... Those who learn, they can also say in a shorter time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “Tell me!” ) Those who don't know, they don't know. That's what I've been through yesterday in Strenč, and it's what I've been through here in the Saeima today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U295	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U296	Colleagues! For those of you who have not followed the work of the Special Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, I would like to point out that during the work of the Commission it was concluded that there are no longer any criteria for determining the new municipalities. Likewise, there are no longer any criteria for us to determine whether the status of the city of the Republic of Latvia or the status of the big cities or cities or the status of the state city. These criteria simply do not exist. It is just as good that we can define, politically here, with a vote, the criterion and name the city of the republic, the metropolitan city, the large city, the city of the country, for example, those settlements that are really capable of earning the budget that is then distributed among all the municipalities. I have in my hands the calculation of financial equalisation of municipalities in the Ministry of Finance for 2020. You could look at and get acquainted with this document, and understand that there are in reality only two profitable cities - Riga and Jurmala. However, there are many such applicants among the settlements: Carnikava, Ādaži, Saulkrasti, Babite, Mārupe, Ikšķile, Garkalne, Stopini and Ulbroka. Let us consider this and come up with a name for these settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U297	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U298	The debate was on everything possible, and let us, however, try on the proposal that is then the big city. The big city has some criteria why we call it the big city. This draft law will show, for example, that Iecava will immediately become a city. And Jelgava will also become a city. Both of them will be mutually equal cities, and there will be no difference in the meaning of law. It is therefore important to understand the criteria for these cities. Because the problem will already be on the very side of public administration. You are talking about modern public administration, but how will you share those services? How, then, will you organize government at all? What will you expect from one city and another? And there will be a large city with 28 thousand inhabitants and a city with 60 thousand inhabitants. What is this correlation between these two things, my colleague? That must be understood.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U299	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U300	This would be the rare time I agree with Aldi Gobzem. I think it would really be good that Riga Mayor's candidates would climb the podium and tell them how they feel. They want to be big or Republican? But if seriously, I call now and forward... I think this debate today shows that we are not large, not Republics, but in such one-size-fits-all thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U301	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U302	Proposal No 11 - Member Kiršteina's proposal. The Commission was not supported. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ; “We vote “for”!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U303	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please the result! About - 37, against - 30 (Applause) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please get the result! - 37, 30, abstaining, not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U304	So Proposal 12 is a proposal from Member Valaiņa to add Jēkabpils to the list of cities in the Republic. The big city!” ‘The Republic is no longer there!’ ), Jelgava, Valmiera... and Ventspils. The Commission was not supported. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U305	Colleagues! Wait a second! Colleagues! Wait a second! Just a minute, colleagues! The Bureau has received an application from Members Dzintars, Strīķe, Pavļuta, Zakatistova and Latkovska: “Please continue the meeting on March 5, until the finalisation of the second reading of the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”. Today, publish half an hour long breaks every one and a half hours.” ( Interface: “Very good! ” ) We keep sitting. And let's start the debate. Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U306	I asked you to unite the two...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U307	Yeah. Do Members object to the unification of time? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) None. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U308	Dear colleagues, English theologian George Herbert wrote in the 17th century that “the hell is full of good intentions and desires. ” Today most have heard from this phrase a derived saying that “the way to hell has been paved with good intentions”. I think that none of us could even imagine that, following the adoption by the Saeima on 21 March last year in such a large unanimous and good faith of a communication on the continuation of administrative territorial reform in a democratic form (I quote now) "the creation by 2021 of areas of administrative capacity for economic development with local authorities capable of ensuring that the autonomous functions set out in the laws are carried out in a comparable quality and accessibility manner and provide high quality services to citizens at reasonable costs". ( End quoted) So no one could imagine that the good intentions would come true and that all positive illusions would be destroyed. Today's new territorial division of the country means not research-based, economically developing administrative territories with sustainable local governments, but industrious drawings of the combined territories, which the experts of the Council of Europe have already managed to describe as a "result of the game with LEGO blocks", thus questioning Latvia as a democratic state. The result of the reform is the insulted people in the regions of Latvia - insulted, not united! - insulted people whose settlements are divided between the manormen of the ruling coalition as at birth, without people's trust in the state and rights. The autonomous functions laid down by law for municipalities have still not been studied, and no one can reasonably prove the improvements of the services provided by the new municipalities and at the same time their cost savings. The absence of consultations with local authorities can be described as a consultation fiction, to be more precise. An example of the elimination of the status of Ventspils city as a republic and the proposal to create a new municipality of Ventspils demonstrates such a lack of studies as well as the conduct of illustrative consultations with municipalities. No studies have been carried out to justify the creation of a new municipality of Ventspils and no social impact assessment of such a decision, not to mention analysis of service costs of both municipalities and evaluated economic forecasts of the newly created municipality. There is only a superficial and non-professional proposal to create a new district, which has been opposed by both reorganized municipalities, municipal public organisations, business professional organisations and authoritative university researchers and industry experts. These shortcomings were not addressed by the blind majority of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission at its meetings, thus ignoring the principles of the rule of law and rational legislator. The Saeima’s statement decided to consult local governments on the new territorial division. After consulting the government with the municipality of Ventspils, more than a hundred written questions remained unanswered, and only two of them were answered in essence. This confirms total indifference to the needs and interests of the inhabitants of Ventspils city and Ventspils municipality. I will continue with the next proposal, but I call for this proposal not to be supported, so 12, because it is opposed by Valmiera and Jēkabpils, but to support proposals 13, 14, 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U309	Wait a second! Please turn on the microphone for Aldim Gobzems on the point of procedure!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U310	Colleagues! We have just voted for the use of the term "big cities" in the draft law. The draft law contains 74 proposals and 74 amendments (Dep. R. Kols: “The law comes into force when the President announces it!” ), which deals with the cities of the Republic. I believe that a break should be made and that the Commission should change this issue, otherwise we are voting today on texts that are no longer relevant. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “It’s not true!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U311	There's no... It wasn't about the procedure... This can be corrected at third reading. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U312	Dear colleagues, Today, we are listening not only to ourselves, but also to young people, for example, who are currently in guest places. I think that, in this debate, we really have very little discussion about what this reform will most affect, and that is Latvia's future and development. And we lose this big picture behind the details, and right away, as I can predict, we will be discussing whether or not Ventspils should be the city of the republic. ( Insight: “The Great One! ”) ) It is of course great (interfaces: “The Great!” )... I'm sorry! The big city. At the same time, almost none of the debaters have mentioned the fact that with certain, few, thought-out development centres Latvia as a country will develop faster, that investments will be more efficient, that at last we will be able to optimise the school network so that we can ensure good education in every school in Latvia, not only in some where there are many children. And that is what we can achieve only through administrative territorial reform. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Kohl: 'We can talk about the proposal?' ) I would urge you to perhaps focus on essential things ( Dep. Mr Dolgopolov: “Can we clarify what is essential?” ) and a little less time to discuss the status of Ventspils as a big city. This also applies to the members of the STECF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U313	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U314	Mrs Golubeva, I would like to give you a small answer. You have talked about the fact that this reform will affect young people. I fully agree with you, Mrs Golubeva, she will touch young people. Where is your party member Puce to explain the reform for young people? Where is he? Where is he? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Stepanenko: “Yes! Yes! That's it!” ) Where is the candidate for your mayor, the candidate for the mayor of the municipality to explain the reform for young people? Where is he? He's just got up at the quay once? I think that the duality needs to be left aside once, and that's the duality benchmark that you all despised before the elections. Now you fall on your knees so that this coalition may be. That's all the duality you're talking from the triple. If you care for young people, if you care for young people, then you wouldn't make Dombrava, sorry, Saulkrasti district! Then you would make it the way it should be! If you care for young people, Ulbroka would not be at Baltezer (Applause.) And the sow would not be by the sea. If you care for young people, you would find that there are twice as many people living in Jelgava as in the cities you call large cities. If you were to take care of young people, you would not make a cartel, as your party would be better after the elections, but rather make a national reform. So you don't need this two-way thing from this pub! Invite your minister. Invite Arthur Tom Pelles to climb up the platform and defend each proposal! We already do not require anything else. We ask for an explanation. — Dep. R. Kohl: “It’s Valaiņš’s proposal!” )... to explain this proposal. ( Internouncing call.) And one more question. Another issue that needs to be highlighted. And it is in accordance with the Latvian folk proverb... It's about "Development/About!" Who doesn't go in the triple... Neither Pless, who is responsible, nor the potential candidate for mayor of the municipality, Jušas, who has already fled, nor Minister Pūce... This corresponds to that proverb, and that proverb is (Internex.) So: You're so set that you can't even see your eyes. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) That even the eyes can not be seen! ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) And, Arthur Tom Plēš, instead of getting out of place, get up on every proposal and from the platform to negotiate and defend it! There is no art from place to place. Art is from the platform to negotiate and defend the people of Latvia. Thank you. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Depp. A. Nemiņš: “I want a procedure! For the procedure!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U315	Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Kaimiņš. On the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U316	To those who do not know, let me explain that the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development is in Belgium, defends the interests of our country there. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ) There are those who imagine they don’t know. Next. Please observe the Rules of Procedure, please, by the President-in-Office. ( Milestones.) And we are talking about proposals. You cannot tell us what to talk about or who to come up with. You're conducting a sitting. Well, please run that sitting and don't let me talk about something you don't have to talk about. ( Interface: “It’s not a procedure! ” ) Talking about the fact that there is now a person without a mandate in the sitting room...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U317	Mr. Neighbour, Rule 72. Turn off the microphone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U318	There's a man without a mandate here. It also violates the Rules of Procedure roller. “ Where is the hammer?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ‘; ‘Amur!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U319	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U320	Colleagues! The Minister responsible for reform Juris Pūce has repeatedly stressed in the public space that citizens' views will be taken into account in its implementation. But it seems that in this case it is quite clear that Minister Puce is a man who, with the words in Riga, works in the oven. Because, in essence, we see that the opinion of the citizens is not of interest to them and, unfortunately, you too. I understand that you might want to avenge the ZZS (Interior: “Of course! Holy thing!’ ), because the only criterion that suggests why Jelgava and Ventspils are to add municipalities, while other major cities are not, is that these municipalities are headed by political power in the ZZS. Colleagues, I understand that you probably want to steal Aivars Lembergs in this way, as it is possible that his support with the county could fall. But, colleagues, think of them, please, for the residents of the municipality. For example, the residents of Ventspils municipality have written to all of you a letter, where they very precisely express their opinion that they do not want to join the city of Ventspils. They also take the view that, for example, the argument on population in the region is not correct, as 73 percent of the territory is forest. Do you really want people in the woods to live? The argument that the region is not viable itself does not work either. Because there, for example, personal income tax, real estate tax income is much higher than in Daugavpils district and Rezekne district, which you will leave separately. Population exceeds 10 thousand – the required amount of the law to be the municipality as an independent unit. And the decrease in population is much smaller than in Daugavpils and Rezekne regions. And the proportion of young people and children is much higher than there. ( Internouncing call.) The residents of the region also emphasize to you that redefining borders is not a big art, that it is important to show what will improve them, where there will be jobs, what services will improve. And also to indicate what criticism is there about services that the municipality seems unable to provide. Another argument. There is a need for an administrative or development centre. The people of Ventspils correctly point out that Ventspils region has developed so well, it has developed so smoothly precisely because there is no one head of water in the middle of it, which ensnails power and wants everything to be on its own. Ventspils region can develop smoothly. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Aivars is also watching!” ) And the people of Ventspils also point out that they have managed to do it better than, for example, Talsi and Kuldīga, who have a clear development centre. Since I really call on both Minister Puce and you to take the opinion of the people into account and to really listen to it, without thinking of the small - and I would say so - political precepts that you have today on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U321	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U322	Well, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Golubeva for a short lesson on how and what to talk about in the context of the reform. I understand that it is addressed primarily to a member of her party who, in the context of the reform, tried to find out where the town from which the Member is paid Valainis. This is indeed very closely linked to the draft law under discussion. But, on the proposal, I would also very much like to hear the arguments why the exclusion of these cities from the status of large, state, republican cities is linked to the overall happiness that we hope to have in adopting other proposals. This argument was not here. There was no commission, no commission manager or the very context of the draft law. It seems to me that we should be correct in the details as well, talking about such happy and big things as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U323	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U324	First of all, by nature. And in the end, shit about the procedure. In essence, I call on all Members to remain very serious now and to understand the legal aspects of this proposal and the consideration of future proposals, as they say. Because what you will be voting on and what you will be speaking will be on the verbatim record of the sitting of the Saeima. And this is definitely the case, which, if I vote in the same way as the commission, will come to the Constitutional Court. And there you will bear responsibility as witnesses, not for group discipline, but for your individual responsibility to explain your decisions as part of the parliamentary order. To include Rezekne, not to include Ventspils and Jelgava - this will need to be explained. We'll have to explain! And, as you know, you can't lie. You can't lie! You know that. If you say the truth, then you'll have to say that it's an attempt to speak to A SAID... Rēzekne, Daugavpils... as they say, support the reform as a whole. You all know that very clearly. Or you will now have to come with socio-economic arguments... Now that they are no longer the republican city, but they are now the big cities... explain how Jelgava is smaller in size than Rezekne. I will speak on this subject several more times. But, as I promised, at the end of the procedure. Mr. The King of the Procedure, who is currently engulfing carrots in the Saeima’s Sitting Hall (Laughter). Thank you very much. ... I would urge you to get something nice and do not hurt minor children, little children. Because one day you may be lucky and you will be your father, and you will have to regret what you have said here today and what has now been recorded in the Stenogram of the Saeima sitting for all time - while Latvia will exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U325	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U326	Good afternoon! Again for the figures and criteria. I will remind you that there are 696 986 people living in Riga. In the second largest city - Daugavpils - there are 91 913 inhabitants. The third city in size is Liepaja - 76 618; the fourth is Jelgava - 60 804 people. I will also finish this because after the fourth in size the city population is followed by the cities that remained on the metropolitan list (we no longer have the status of the republic city), but Jelgava has disappeared. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: “I offer - very large cities!” ) What is the reasoning? What's the logic? What criteria? The logic was as follows: Jelgava took away the status of the Republican city (the capital city - now) and merged with rural territory. The argumentation - here, Jelgava Municipality has no development center, so we have to combine it. Okay. If this is the logic, please explain to me why the municipality of Lower Kurzeme, the newly created, has been designated Liepaja as a development centre, because the municipality of Lower Kurzeme has no development centre. Because according to the same logic, the creation of the municipality of Selija was refused - that, behold, Viesīte cannot be a development centre, because we do not have millions that could be invested in the newly created “Latvian Historical Land”, because the name was offered by the president – “Latvian Historical Land”. We give up on Selya. Okay! We're building lowland... I don't know, maybe it will be a new land for us in the near future - we will create a new Duke of Kurland. Jelgava is deprived of the status of the Republican city. Why? Well, maybe because Ventspils was also taken away on the same terms as nobody knows. There is no logic. That is why this proposal, where there is a logic where it can be made clear and clear why there is a list, rather than someone else... I would like to call for the support of any person who is healthy... everything is fine with common sense. Otherwise, we will not really be able to explain why we are doing so to the European Union, to the European Commission or to our own citizens. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U327	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U328	We have a colleague in the Saeima who always thought he was a prime minister, then he is the main opponent; then in one programme he thought there was a pike, and then he was Christine, and today he is a limp. (Laughter) I really hope that colleagues will be able to understand this person. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “Do you not want to talk about the proposal?” ) But now the proposal has been put forward. Indeed, there are justified arguments here from a number of Members who have also raised this issue in the Commission, when we discussed these issues, what is the area of influence of these major cities, about the functions and services that these cities provide and provide not only to the population of the city and the population of the surrounding region, but also in much larger areas. This is still an unanswered question in the reform, which... Indeed, at third reading we should find an answer on how this cooperation would take place. And this is not just about Jelgava and Jelgava municipalities, but about a much wider area that cooperates with this large city, such as Jelgava. I hope that the third reading will come to VARAM with a concept that will also address these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U329	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U330	Hello, dear colleagues! Yeah, you can hate Rāvins, you can hate Lembergs. But there are figures. And I really do, looking at all the proposals... And I would really call... That's why I got up in the three-- I would ask Arthur Tom Plēks to just come and tell you why the fourth largest city is not there, and Rezekne is... If it's... if broken down by region (Applause) Where we look... Latgale, Vidzeme... then I don't understand why there are two in Latgale... In Vidzeme, no city... and there is one in Kurzeme. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Malaci!” ) Why is Rezekne with 27 thousand is included in the list, while Jelgava with 55 thousand is outside? I really don't understand, Arthur. I really hope you come and tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U331	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U332	The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, My colleague, Jānis Vucāns, was currently on a mission to the Baltic Assembly event in Tallinn, and he asked me to read to you his conclusions after two meetings in which he attended... In the sitting of both Zemgale and Kurzeme... All right. At the meeting of the Commission with the participation of Kurzeme Municipality, the reason for the creation of the new Ventspils Municipality was indicated in only four general sentences. Other government representatives said: “In the model prepared by the Government we offer to create a new Ventspils district consisting of Ventspils city and Ventspils municipality, where there are 34,300 inhabitants in Ventspils city, 10,900 inhabitants in Ventspils region. So the total number - 45 000 people, who make up the total budget - is 86 million. Existing districts already cooperate with each other in the fields of education, culture, sport and tourism. There are common societies, as well as this model is in line with the government's offer. In this case, Ventspils is a development center. After 2021, we plan that such a new district will have the opportunity to fulfil all the functions assigned to it and to achieve the objectives it has achieved." End of quote. At the meeting of the Commission there was no reference to a study that would support the need for the consolidation of Ventspils city and Ventspils municipality and the assessment of its functions, which would outline the sustainability of the new municipality and its economic indicators, as well as possible problems and solutions, offers and minuses. No word was given about the negative opinions of the population and their concerns about the activities of the new municipality municipalities. And that is why Mrs Muižniece's call probably to Mr Pleis to explain this situation is in the right place. During the meeting of the committee responsible, the time for presenting opinions of representatives of the municipality was limited, allowing them to speak in 10 minutes. This was justified by the need to listen to as many municipalities as possible that day. Unfortunately, this shows a unwillingness to go into the merger offer between Ventspils city and Ventspils region. The representatives of municipalities had carefully prepared the meetings of the Commission and explained in their presentations the differences in the management of the city and the municipalities adjacent to the Republic, inconsistency in the system of territorial division of the territory prepared by the Government and examined by the Commission, comparing the various municipalities, unequal treatment between the cities of the Republic, deciding to preserve the cities of the Republic (Dep. I. Zarins: “The big cities!” ) - Liepaja, Rezekne, Daugavpils - but denying this status to Ventspils and Jelgava. The situation of Ventspils, both municipalities... in the novads of the opinion of the municipality and the residents of the city, without supporting the creation of the new Ventspils municipality in a sociological poll... issues and potential problems that have not yet been discussed in the course of the reform... The government representatives were not in a position to answer any questions from the local government and members of the Saeima regarding new regions, including questions directly related to the role of the Saeima in the assessment of functions. For example, it was not possible to give an answer to changes in the costs of public transport organisations in the new district...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U333	Mr. Plant, your time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U334	... e.g. changes in water tariffs, management features, organising work on the site... ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U335	Mr. Plant, time! Time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U336	... very large and sparsely populated area of the municipality. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Yes, my fellow Members, I will continue next, there is no problem. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U337	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U338	The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development carefully assessed how to develop and develop municipalities together with their functional territories, and in the version proposed by the Ministry there were 35 municipalities, where cities are together with these functional territories. What is important is that, in the Commission's debate, we have assessed the arguments for and against such a proposal and progress that we have proposed today... on the table. What we are seeing is that the recommendations of the European Commission point to the fact that we need to think about how to develop cities with rural or functional areas adjacent to them in the future (depending on what they call them), because there is a concentration on development potential. This has been demonstrated by a number of countries in the European Union that it is such a development model, where there is a strong economic engine of development - a city with a functional area adjacent to it - that can create very good conditions for development in the future. And for this very reason, too, in this draft law, we have to find solutions, answers to various questions... how to ensure much closer cooperation between municipalities to ensure the performance of a range of functions aimed at development and to provide a wide range of services to Latvian citizens. Consequently, I do not see any concern about why these cities, which will not lose their status... no city loses its status, will be able to develop in the future. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U339	The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U340	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I just wanted to add a little more to Arthur's speech that that's exactly the city... In fact, after the reform, there will be more two cities than they are today. And if you're talking about Kurzeme, it's just as much as the city as it is, it'll stay there. And no one takes away the status of the city, neither Durban, nor Grobkin, nor Aizpute, nor Talsi, nor Culling, nor Saldum. So that cities in Latvia will remain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U341	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U342	Dear colleagues, I warmly congratulate you. We have now - we have now! - the big cities. I think it is not necessary to stop at what has been achieved, we need to go further and submit a third-reading proposal so that there are also very large cities. If you don't manage to stop the decline in the population in those cities, you need at least on paper - big, very big. Now, as it turns out, there are also two new cities in the country. That's wonderful! Very, very good reform. But now it happens quite strange if we now have those big cities that are listed in that law, but for example, one of those big cities is Rezekne, which now has 27 thousand inhabitants. There are 34 thousand inhabitants in Ventspils, 55 thousand in Jelgava, but its cities are not large! So I have a proposal for you, fellow Members: maybe we need to change some sort of textbooks in mathematics in schools, if? Because now it's a concept of what's big and bigger... Well, it becomes salt so different in the sense of this coalition, if. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U343	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. You're going to speak for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U344	Thank you to Mr Ples for your explanations. In my opinion, it was an example of how to answer questions without specifically answering not one question, but with the speed of your speech showing a particular conviction that a person is speaking the truth. In fact, this was nothing, nor were the decisions made by the Commission about any content. They were political, because no argument against could have influenced the position of Members of the ruling coalition in any... on the specific issue. And this, in my opinion, was not a secret to the members of the commission itself, nor to those people who attended our committee meetings. And Dace Blue... Dace Bluke's respect too! You know, your speech to me... I could compare this: the woman had a wife's status, suddenly she's being deprived of her status, but she says: "Well, you're going to stay a woman...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U345	Time, Mrs Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U346	... Well, what's the difference?'
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U347	Time. It's time for an intermediate. Please register the Members! Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary, Maria Golubeva, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U348	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Iveta Benhen-Beken, Raimonds Bergmanis, Mārtiņš Bondars (Dep. Bondar: “I am here!” )... Bondar is, Boris Cilevičs, Janina Jalinska, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Andrejs Klementjevs... Yes, Janina Kursīte-Pacule, Regina Lochmele-Lunova... Yes, Ināra Mūrniece, Evija Papule, Ivan Ribakov... Evija Papule (Dep. E. Papule: “Hello! I am!” )... is, Ivan Ribakov, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U349	It's 30 minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U350	Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the Chamber. We're going on. The next speaker was Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U351	Colleagues! Member Arthur Tom Ples, who is also Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, said that ATR has followed a development model that requires a city plus adjacent functional areas. Mr. Ples, what is the development centre for Daugavpils district? What is the development centre for Rezekne municipality? What is the development centre for Lower Kurzeme? The city, isn't it? Why, then, is the municipality not connected to the city in these cases? Mr Pleska also said that a wide range of services would be provided in the new municipalities. What are the services that are not currently being carried out? Both the residents of Ventspils and Jelgava municipality are completely satisfied, and they can't even imagine what will then be the new service that you will provide after the unification of municipalities. What you're doing is you're just not ashamed here to lie from the pub that you really have some qualitative and meaningful criteria. It just doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U352	Name to the Member... Valaine's not... Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U353	It seems to me that today we show it so that we don't really understand what's big, what's small. At one time, even before Latvia gained its independence, Rainis said: “We are a small tribe, /We will be as big as our will.” Today's will is will! - is what tells you what's big and what's small. Moreover, it could only be the will of the drivers of the reform! And in this respect, figures have no meaning. And I would also like, perhaps a little bit, however, to teach some Members today, too, so to say. If we are talking about numbers, remember that numbers are to be talked about, not numbers. Numbers are shown in a circus, and numbers are taught in preschool, and numbers are only 10. Numbers - these are the ones we have to talk about! And, of course, it would be logical if the figures were to determine which city is large, which is small, because we can be as much as our will and as much as our spirit. And in this case, Pilten can also be a big city. And maybe we need to restore the status of the city to Straupe, which once was Hanseatic, because maybe they too are very big in spirit and will. Therefore, I call, however, for us to stick to the figures, to the concrete facts and to support the fact that there are big cities, that there are cities and that Ventspils and Jelgava are cities.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U354	Name to Member Aivars Gaidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U355	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Let me tell you a little bit about the reality. We also managed to work in Jelgava municipality... And now Mrs. Reizniece talked about the support of the people... It turns out that it's not like supporting. MyaBalss.lv initiative to prevent the unification of the municipality - Jelgava Municipality and Ozolnieki Municipality - has been presented back weeks. Three thousand persons have signed. So... Where is your support then? And here will be exactly the same... situation when one supporter for you out today wandered... Mr. Tawar... with or without food. And this time you climbed exactly on the same raven on which you already climbed, when you started the elections of Riga City Council once - and failed. And in this case, there will certainly be exactly the same situation. Therefore, people should not be called up if there is no support from the population. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U356	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U357	Dear colleagues, I'm here today in the Chamber... Mr. Pelles also told us... that he had to listen to what had happened in the commission. But I listened very hard to Mr Plesha's speech today on this proposal. And I have to conclude that really when you need a lot of time to do with no talk, then Mr. Pleis comes. Because I remember very well the Saeima sitting in which we looked at the two draft laws initiated by your colleagues... on the election of the municipality council and the law of the municipalities. And I remember Mrs Bluke deceived her colleagues by accidentally making mistakes and not saying that the local government law is urgent. And then you had to quickly correct that mistake. And while you got those voices, they were missing, Mr. Plesh came on the table to save the situation. And when I look at what will happen with this bill, I also looked at the entire Saeima debate afterwards. And I remember Mr. Plesh talked a lot out of the pub... various strange things, including Mr Ples, have also said such a thing that citizens should not express their views too often. And that's what he said from the troupe, that it's not in the interests of the people! That is why we should look very carefully at what Mr Pleis is trying to say. Because what we have now is that we have the balls of the Saeima Administration in which Mr. Pleis spoke as the head of the commission, telling us about those 80 hours of commission work... And here's a few speeches... But as the commission manager, Mr. Ples, has actually said nothing. So... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U358	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U359	Yes, colleagues, this movement of people was amazing... Mārtiņš Bondars, who always moved away from the hall... Then before me, after me... I'm a little... I decided to talk to Mr. Plesa about functional territories and to remind him of a little bit of how Liepaja was... Well, release, let's call it that way. And the difference between Liepaja and Jelgava, which is in fact almost... Jelgava - with increasing dynamics. I assume it's close to real... at the same quantity... The only difference is that there may not have been as smooth as in Liepaja, but Liepaja and the surrounding territory proved one thing, and I absolutely agree with them. Yes, it is true about functional areas. And it was Valmiera's choice, and it was Jēkabpils' choice, because it is possible to use it effectively and actually gain territory around even... not Valmiera... But for cities where its critical mass is already 60 thousand, 70 thousand... Well, actually twice as big as Valmiera and Jēkabpils... or more... There, it can already become dangerous... And there can be very great losses - unlike effective management - because managing such an area is very problematic. And now everyone who is voting for Jelgava, so to say, placing in a vast area... According to this reasoning, why couldn't Riga be combined with all this--Perience? In my view, it was not necessary to interfere at all, there was enough high capacity, financial capacity, municipalities. Let them live... There's no problem at all, not... But what is being done now, without argumentation, public at least... Why is Kraslava there, why isn't Jelgava? Well, it's a bit extremely absurd, and I think, yes, if it's... And I don't think somebody's gonna think about Rezekne... then, in any case, it is only a technical issue. I think that it is absolutely clear that the two cities mentioned above, on which there is a proposal, should simply be put back there and try to solve any problems differently if you think that there are problems there.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U360	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U361	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Well, what? It is no wonder that any proposal with the word "Ventspils" appears, so to speak, that participation in the debate is predictable. But that's not what I wanted to talk about right now. Of course, administrative territorial reform is complicated, it is big, it affects the interests of many people in Latvia, both in Ventspils and in other places. And at the same time, it is obviously controversial from the point of view of different people. Let me read one quote: "In no country has the reform been popular, and nowhere has it ended on a voluntary basis, it is simply impossible." It has said one of our colleagues in 2008 when he discussed the same law, about the previous wave of administrative territorial reform. And that is exactly what it is: it is a difficult reform. And believe me, both in VARAM and Juris Pūce, who today defends Latvia's interests in Brussels, and Arthur Tom Ples, who is addressing here, as if he were the only one who would have done everything... Sometimes it's really been that he's done everything here. ( Internouncing call.) In this case, it is forgotten what is really being talked about, hair is being broken, arguments are being called up, the same is being forgotten, and that is the direction towards Latvia's development. I'll quote again... I will read what the same person said on December 18, 2008, the same year. Perhaps Mr Kučinski could listen to me: "I see that today is obviously the day when it comes to sustainable Latvia when it comes to our future, and Parliament will divide itself into those that are about to move forward and those that need only political talk, stagnation and mobs on the ground." Who has said that? ( The transcripts are: “Kuchinskis! ”) ) Maris Kučinskis, Member of People’s Party. ( Internouncing call.) Mr Kučinska then voted in favour of the reform, the ZZS voted against. Today, Mr Kučinska is a political power that will obviously vote against the reform. And any excuses, any proposals are good to take a long time and to distance the moment when this reform, which has not been done for more than 20 years... to enter into force at a later date. We will decide it, but will draw it in length, print out maximum political capital at the expense of Latvian citizens. Because ZZS is a local government party that has exploited the resources of the last castle that has been possible from this fragmented local government policy that has been in Latvia so far. Please, let's stop this one and let's go ahead. That's enough! We still need to discuss the borders of the municipalities. That's enough! Please address serious questions. Good luck! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U362	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U363	Colleagues! I hear a lot from the troupe that there is no argumentation and no criteria... about what this one will be... the choice of major cities. Well, it's not that it's not. And! And there are two specific names - Andris Rāviņš and Aivars Lembergs. And I have a question. So when these two gentlemen don't lead these cities, what are you going to do? Do you open the law and change it again? Why... Do you really not see those people who... Mr. Geidan, you don't see the people who live in you... In Jelgava district? Did Mr. Rāvins go outside and protest today alone with all their heavy machinery? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “There is no support!” ) How far are you going to take your revenge into it? We can already see that the law is being passed. Lemberg can't walk in the perimeter around the Saeima. Okay. Okay. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman and Depp. A. Gaidan's intermediate names.) Now... No, the perimeter can now, but soon will not, because revenge is so sweet. You'll need something new all the time. ( Internouncing call.) Where's it going? ( Internouncing call.) Well, think about Jelgava, Mr. Geidan! ( Internouncing call.) As you go to Jelgava then, I'm interested. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U364	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U365	Imagine if the ZZS would rule in Riga, then after this reform Riga would be a parish. Just as it is now being done with Jelgava and Ventspils. It's not national, and it's not common sense... It's on principle - I have a house in the Saulkrasti, like Dombrava, (it's true, no matter what Dombrava says). In this case, what we are calling for is a national approach, Mr Pavilut, not an empty talk; as you are talking about the OIC (there you have given its permission), so you are doing that too. You are speaking out now that you have done something hugely. But a national approach also means that Staķis could climb into the tributary as a mayor, as a potential head of the municipality, and say that Jelgava is a big city or not a big city. He doesn't care because he's just a carder, not a real, potential manager of the municipality.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U366	Time's up.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U367	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U368	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr. Kučinskis: “Do not shut in until he listens to me!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U369	I am not ashamed or ashamed for any time to answer Mr Paviluta... to those words. Thank you for the quote you wrote. And maybe you've noticed - in no public rhetoric, I haven't said anywhere that there is no need for reform... and that it should not be corrected. I was just against some of the illogicals that you bring here (for example, turn Volga or Oku against the stream - if people go from Strenchi to Valmiera, they need to go to Valka). Against the fact that there is no logic right now for Liepaja, Rēzekne to leave... And Jelgava, in turn, to unite... If you fix it all and there will be some logic for the third reading as a whole, then I will not be ashamed to say it and applaud it to you either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U370	The name to Member Uldis Augums for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U371	Dear colleagues, Here in the hall, about 5 percent of all Members are the former municipal leaders. Andris Kazinovskis, Aldis Adamovičs, Maris Kučinskis, Janina Jalinskis and me. ( Interface: “Jain Tutins also! ” ) I am very pleased that Members are coming to debate things that remind me of anecdotes: “I am not a specialist, but I have an opinion.” We have gone through both first reform and cooperation between municipalities. I used to make one of the first collaborations called... ‘Berze coast’. You can look at it and find it. There were united four parishes: two from Jelgava district, two from Dobele district - now located in Jelgava municipality Glūda parish and Līvbērze parish and Dobele district Jaunbērze parish and Berze parish. This cooperation... worked very well together, especially separately from cities - from Jelgava and from Dobele, which were in these areas as big cities. So, my dear colleagues, before you speak...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U372	Mr. Plant, your time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U373	... Think of what you're talking about. And I call on you, however, to support these proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U374	Mr. Plant, your time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U375	... we are trying, without clear criteria, to confirm things that will not work in the future.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U376	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U377	Daniel rightly said that 20 years and longer have been drawn into decisions. What, then, was recorded in the 1998 Law and not done? Recorded: Create a second level administrative unit - counties. And that's the feeling that in 1998 it's time...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U378	Please talk about the proposal. Mr. Schmidt, please, for the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U379	... last time collective reason visited this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U380	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U381	I would like to remind Mr Pavluta that that decision was taken in connection with administrative... The need for administrative territorial reform was supported by the majority of the Saeima, including our votes. And this is not about whether the reform is popular, unpopular... Really, you're right! In few places, reforms are accepted with praise and with great joy. But this is not about adopting or not adopting reform as such. It is about the fact that the brothers cannot be called reform. This is what we are talking about today. And all the debate is not against reform as such. All the proposals that have been made are intended solely to improve this reform. One consideration of the proposal we have debated.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U382	Mr Dolgopolov, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U383	I would like to remind you (interim: "Time!" )...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U384	Time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U385	I would like to remind you that supervision of individual municipalities is a competence of the ministry.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U386	Mr Dolgopolov, thank you. Time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U387	And in this case, combining the region with the city...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U388	Mr Dolgopolov, time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U389	... you change control over the municipality that... to represent...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U390	Thank you, time. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, what do you want to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U391	12. The proposal put forward by Viktors Valainis was not supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U392	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 54, for - 3. Rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U393	Thank you. Proposals 13, 14 and 15 are the same, talking about the same thing. Proposal No 13 has been tabled by Mr Valaiņš and is intended to complement the list of major cities with Jelgava and Ventspils.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U394	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U395	I would ask you to combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U396	Are Members against mergers? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) None. Please, time is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U397	Dear colleagues, The parliamentary statement on the continuation of administrative territorial reform, which I mentioned in my previous debate, decided on a new territorial division to consult local governments. After consulting the government with the municipality of Ventspils, as I said, more than a hundred written questions remained unanswered, and only two of them were answered in essence. At the meeting of the Saeima Commission, when representatives of municipalities invited participants of the meeting to discuss the establishment of the new Ventspils municipality and finally to answer the questions asked by them, an illusion of consultations was created; the municipality asked questions and still did not receive any answers to them. The majority of the Territorial Reform Commission did not pay the least attention to the fact that in a sociological survey the majority of residents of both Ventspils city and Ventspils municipality objected to the creation of a new municipality. It is well known that on 14 October 2019, just one day before the meeting of the government where this draft law was approved, the ruling coalition was amended politically by the voluntari decision to maintain the status of the Republican city for Liepaja, Rēzekne and Daugavpils, but this status was arbitrarily withdrawn for Ventspils and Jelgava. I was present at one of the committee meetings, and Member Regina Ločmele-Lunova asked a reasoned question - what is the difference between Rezekne and Ventspils and Jelgava? - To which no one was either unable or able or unwilling to answer; the answer simply failed. The representative of the responsible ministry, at the meeting of the commission, openly lied on this fact, stating that it is the opinion of the responsible services of the sectoral ministries and that this is the result of the material of the meeting of the government, which... Not true. The Commission was not even interested in taking an unverified, unbiased and equal decision by the Commission. As a result, the proposal to create a new Ventspils municipality is not based on research and there have been no consultations with municipalities on its essence. It is not supported by residents of both municipalities, non-governmental organisations of municipalities and professional organisations of entrepreneurs, industry experts and scientists. Such a decision will violate the principles of democracy, good law and local government, thus undermining public faith in just laws. And if everything moves and moves as it has been, then I have a proposal to make this administrative territorial reform simply an administrative political reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U398	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U399	Honourable Members! Here I have to agree with Mr Kazinovsky, who really said about those criteria that will obviously be more serious to be incorporated into this law for the third reading. And they can be different - it can be population, it can be special financing. But the main thing is, of course, whether it is the center of development or not. And, speaking specifically about Jelgava, the second question could be - but is there not two development centres next to it? And if I see Ozolnieki who are such a very strong industrial development zone next to me (or even such Ozolnieki region alone can open up some good or even some good three regions in another Latvian, say, side!) Then the next question arises: do we really need to combine and make, let us say Jelgava together with these regions? I can't be here specifically... I'm sorry it's not a compound... Mr. Valaiņš hasn't broken down for Ventspils and Liepaja... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “And! And! Then it will be!” ) I... Yes, well, I haven't had the opportunity to, let's say, get to know the situation of Ventspils, although the economic capacity there is strong enough. I don't know what the situation is, so I will refrain from this, but I will vote in favour of Jelgava... separately... But I think if we leave Jelgava with the counties... and if we put such a strong, industrially developed center as the Ozolnieki, then we can call it a pilot project. And if we make, for example, Rezekne along with Rezekne Municipality and Ludza Municipality... And then we'll have some 88,000... about 80,000... And we're going to have 10 counties at the end of the county... because otherwise there is no logic. Either the balanced regions we have, or there's really something... I don't know why it's... Why, for example, a city with more than 50 thousand... How many are there now... Why have they been added... Is that so? That is why I am abstaining in this case, but when we come to Jelgava, I will vote in favour... concerning Jelgava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U400	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U401	Colleagues! I will first comment on Mr Kirštein's question. Well, there's that thing: if you put in a lot of less logical criteria, where you can combine the municipality with the city, where you don't, then you can't combine such a possibility that Rezekne, Daugavpils and Liepaja are left separately as big cities, while Jelgava and Ventspils regions are adapted... is added. In his reply to Mr Pavilutos, yes, indeed, reforms, of any kind, are being criticised. And you are certainly well aware of this, because you are one of the most serious critics of reform. I think it is very important that, when its reforms are implemented, it is clear from the outset that, if perhaps some mistakes are made in that process, the intentions are good. And in this case... Well, this reform as a whole shows that, yes, reform is necessary and, to a large extent, many of the right things are being done, but as a goat's foot slips out of unfair intentions. Well, for example, in the same case of Ventspils and Jelgava municipalities - not really take care of the quality of life of the people, but to hate the mayors of the cities. And that, in my opinion, is not acceptable. The states... Yes, national action must be taken, but, Mr Pavļuts, national action means remembering that Latvia is not only Riga; there are also regions; there are local people who have the right to express their views and to have Members listen to it. State action means remembering that Latvians are not just “Developing/Par!” Members or voters. We are very different. And you should be delighted that there is also such political power as the FAO, which will always be concerned about the interests of the people of the regions and also about the interests of the municipalities that we are proud of. ( Milestones.) You have not mentioned any words about how 23 thousand Jelgava residents and 11 thousand Ventspils residents will improve their standard of living and quality of life after joining the city. And that's exactly what we expect from you. From you, Mr Pavļuta, from you, Mr Parliamentary Secretary, and also from others who support and promote this idea.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U402	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U403	Of course, it is quite clear that the integration of these cities with the counties is politically motivated. There can be no illusion that someone has counted, counted, or thought about the population. And here I will tell you one conversation with one of the drivers of the reform. I'm going to have an informal conversation, so I'm not going to mention my name. I said: “Why do you want to turn to the population just because of the plagues in Jelgava district and city? Also after the elections in this new district... Our mayors have proved - we will be there." And then this driver of reform... What did he say? He said: “Yes, you know, but at least at the very least! - The Cup will not be a mayor, there will be only one, Rāviņš." It is only personal revenge to individuals. And all the more so if we talk about the Saeima and the different opinions that prevail here, then it seems to me that it's very wrong that Mr. Pleis is really talking about something in the video room... But there are different opinions and different Members in the Saeima, and in fact, the Saeima should ensure that everyone, including members of the opposition, has a democratic approach to publicity. Latvia is an independent and democratic republic. You delete the word 'democratic'. This is not in your interest, and it is not in your interest here for the Saeima Administration and the Saeima Presidium. And for Mr. Pavlut. Well, you spoke very correctly and sadly, you pointed out to Mr Kučinski to listen to him, but when your group member Bondar comes up here and turns his ass to the woman who is speaking here (Interruption: 'Yes!'). ), is it promised? This is your attitude, the movers of coalition and reform, towards the people of Latvia, too - you simply turn your ass. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You just turned!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U404	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U405	Yes, if we look a little back on the past - already in 2008 the FAO was against administrative territorial reform, and we see the same thing today. And in general, when we see its discussions not only on these issues, there is a growing belief that the FAO is, by nature, against change and against development, against the fact that we can develop the country of Latvia. ( Interface: “A specific argument! ” ) And when we talk about these cities... when you commemorate Ventspils and Jelgava, somehow forgotten Jurmala, where the mayor is... Which party's representative? Remind me! ( Milestones.) There you go. And I think that, in this case, it is important, however... There were many questions and criticisms about consultations - how they have been provided. Last year, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development also conducted consultations with municipalities. The municipalities expressed their views. These opinions were collected, analysed and, on the basis of these opinions, individual elements were taken into account. Like here. The members of the Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform had the opportunity to evaluate and engage in discussions and to take these decisions after hearing the local government population and other stakeholders. We gave a word to anyone who wanted to speak. And the question is whether anyone has gone into these arguments or not - it must be answered by everyone. It was very clear to me why I took these decisions - so to ensure development in Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Then explain to us and to the residents of the municipality!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U406	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U407	I ask for the speaking time to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U408	Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Time merged.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U409	Dear colleagues, According to you, administrative territorial reform is like a miracle: reform will take place and regions will become stronger, growth - faster, investment - bigger, and so on. Is that so? Will this reform contribute to economic development? Of course not! That's absolutely stupid. For example, Finland has five million inhabitants, with 311 municipalities, which apparently did not hinder and will not hinder the development of Finland. Will the regions become richer? I doubt it, too. When you change the number, the amount does not change, colleagues! And the average temperature in the hospital does not change either, colleagues! Yes, there may be savings from the consolidation of some local authorities, but it must be understood that their authorities will be far away from the average population of the region. So there is a lot of noise, colleagues, but very little sense. A lot of time has been spent, but we will not get from this reform and the number of jobs in the regions will not increase, and the extinction of the regions will not stop it. All this reminds me of an anecdotes that my colleague, Mr. Gobzem, has told me some time ago, so... Its beds, colleagues, you can move as much as you want, but not sales volumes, and our exports from it will not change. At the same time, I do not believe that this reform should be stopped at any cost, because there are currently people in the government who are not the instrument but the end-point of the reform. Reforms are needed, not by whether or not they build the well-being of Latvian citizens, but by how much political resistance to reform is. Political resistance is high, which means that reform is good. My colleague, Mr Pavļuta, is talking about the reform here. I think that it is absolutely clear between the lines that this is the main criterion why this reform is good, is that the STECF is very, very opposed to it. So these reforms are not...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U410	Mr Dombrovskis, we are talking about proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U411	... For people, but for your own... those close to themselves, as such an element of political struggle. But imagine what would happen if this particular reform were stopped? Our reformers would then tell us, for several years, from every corner, that those dark Ones from the regions together with SAID are standing in the way of progress. Colleagues! Some people need it themselves... climb to the rabbis to learn from them. To disrupt this process means to disturb their development, development process. Let's go of bed! In this way, we will only get to the understanding that concrete economic development issues need to be addressed more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U412	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U413	Dear colleagues, I will finish what Mr Wuzana wanted to say, because, due to the short period of debate, it was not possible to say that on the previous proposal. At the Commission meeting, no answers were given to the question - when will the questions previously asked by Ventspils City Municipality regarding the proposal for the creation of a new municipality be answered. The members of the ruling coalition did not even take part in the discussion if they did not add the representative of the JCPOA, Andris Kazinovskis, who said that the proposal envisaged a mechanical merger between the two municipalities. And there is great doubt about this offer. It should be noted that in the meeting of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, which discussed the unification of municipalities in Zemgale, therefore also the unification of Jelgava city, Jelgava municipality and Ozolnieki municipality, the observed results do not differ in substance from those just told about the lack of justification for the unification of Ventspils city and municipality. Despite this, most members of the Saeima committee voted in favour of the creation of the new Ventspils municipality and the creation of the new Jelgava municipality, thus excluding Ventspils and Jelgava from the list of cities of importance to the republic. This action by colleagues raises a lot of questions about the validity of such decisions, because it is in essence proposed to decide on a cat in a bag: the offer is incomprehensible, unprepared, unassessed, sufficiently unheard and wrong. I would like to agree with the recommendations of Council of Europe’s municipal experts that it is necessary, and I quote: “Extending the adoption of a draft law on municipal reform until fair and effective consultations are carried out in a timely and appropriate manner.” Therefore, Mr Vucāns invites Members to support proposals 13 to 15 on his own behalf. But I'd like to say to Arthur Tom Pelles that we don't have to tell the shit out of the podium. Fisheries has never been against reform! We are in favour of reform, but if it is logical, understandable, criteria-based, evaluated. One who gives a vision of the future, not pencils... a redesigned map for colour pencils. So that, dear colleagues, I would ask you to think and still support these proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U414	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U415	Dear colleagues, To the big cities. Of course, up to now, there has actually been this known preparation process for the proposal for a year; there have been different working groups... and so on. At the time when the proposal was made and in fact already went to the fact that Liepaja could be like a city separately and the surrounding area of Liepaja - a separate region, I... To be honest, as I was elected from Latgale electoral district, I was interested in how the issue of Rezekne and Daugavpils could be resolved. And I talked to representatives of municipalities, I had left... with the population, and I realized that it was very important for them too... These two cities in Latgale - Rezekne and Daugavpils - to be separate. I then maintained this proposal, and the result is visible. Daugavpils and Rezekne are separate as cities, and districts - separately. At the moment there is peace in that place - no one is protesting, no one raises objections either from Daugavpils municipality and city, or from Rezekne municipality and city. When looking at reform issues similar to Ventspils and Jelgava, to be honest, I remained in the conscience of the criticism of these cities. I seem to have abstained, but today I can say that I will try to support them to be separate, these cities. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola and dep. V. Valainis appeared.) Otherwise, if these administrative regions do not yet emerge, then let us be honest about them. And the other thing, now there's no guarantee... There will be elections now... or Rāviņš will be or someone else, as well as Ventspils. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa is a circle.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U416	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U417	What is clear from today's debate... how cities are recognised as large or not recognised as large. Population is not a criterion - that is clear. Well, Rēzekne and Jelgava, of course not. Interestingly, Mr Plesh said that political membership is not a criterion either. Jurmala has a “green” mayor. Both play golf - no criterion. (Laughter) Okay. What are we... What are we... Golf too, yes, we're stuck out. A good golfer, well, it's not a criterion. What else do we have? ( Internouncing call.) We have, I accept, an educational centre or a centre of industrial production, economic importance. Well, it looks like not. I call for this to be justified. I'll just compare. Now we put the population aside, now we compare two cities - one will be big, and the other will be just a city. Jelgava with Jurmala. From the point of view of production, economic activity, how do you feel? Which so more qualified? Or, let's say, from... education center - which way? No, well, there's the Jurmala Christian Academy - true. But in Jelgava (The Hall of Noise) is the University of Agriculture. No, but... Is that important? People, is that important? In general, if you remember the original offer, there were only two cities - Riga and Jurmala. They put the rest on the table when there was a need for a vote on the reform. There one was brought by my colleague from Liepaja, or not, two, as we know, is an attempt to silence, as let me say. We'll see if it works. But that's it. Stenogram: When you all go to the Constitutional Court, too,... I will also perhaps go, tell you what I mean, more detailed than at present. But about Jurmala. I have nothing... I don't want to offend any sailor, spared God. But Jurmala we have a big city of national importance, well, an hour ago was a republican city, now she's a big one. Maybe she's a national beach, though? With an understanding of intensive construction, yes, it is a beach of national importance with intensive construction of national importance. Seriously! Well, just compare Jurmala with Jelgava. People, what are we doing? Well, we... Well, we broke the country of Latvia now, and... Well, honor, well... But the Constitution... One thing - the Constitutional Court, the other thing - will have to go to Jelgava, to the concert “Wind Storm”. Be careful!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U418	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U419	In recent times, we have a very dangerous trend, and we are following the anecdotes of the Soviet era - the rapporteur asks at the meeting: “What is against (Pause) ... The power of the Soviets?’ Naturally, everyone raises their hands. Today, Mr. Pleis said something the same. Those who joined... speak with proposals or with questions, they are against... the ruling coalition. This is not the right approach. For, I will repeat, we are not against reform; we are for the common sense of carrying out reforms, by anyone, including here. On the fundamental question. Perhaps the time will ever come when Ventspils city will be able to be calmly combined with Ventspils Municipality, because, to be honest, the government is doing everything to break down everything there. Then perhaps these levels will level off and will be able to peacefully unite and re-start. But! The main problem in all these offers is the following. If VARAM had made estimates in the preparation of this reform that there would be not just happiness in merging, but there would be a budget like this, there would be some kind of development, such as material for discussion, it would look like a flat-rate fund, it would look like newly created merging, divided regions or cities... look at assistance from European funds and so on... Wouldn't there be another conversation? I am talking about this with the Minister, even before all the activities started on the part of the Ministry, which really turned into a demonstration that the Ministry is all-knowing and the rest of the people are not interested. If this approach were to be used, it would be much easier to solve all these problems. I would therefore like to call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U420	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U421	Someone here forgot the pen... So, colleagues, on this proposal. I think we will talk much more about Jelgava, Ventspils and other major cities today. We will also talk about regions that we may not be talking about right now. But the rector of the university, that Chair is... I had the opportunity to listen to his presentation about the development of the country and its development patterns. There is a polycentric development model and there is a monocentric development model. All this is possible. And yet this polycentry development model has been selected in Latvia. In order to implement this model, there are certain preconditions for how it could be formed, but what sad was in this presentation was that for us too, the country... all key strategy development documents mention this polycentry, in reality the country, the state of Latvia, continues to develop as a monocentric state, and some way should be changed, this development vector must be broken. What is happening to create these... regions in some way, these regions need to activate their development engines, and I think it's not just that they... Well, for example, the city of Ventspils... Not only do they develop this territory of Ventspils Minor Districts, but much, much more, in principle half of Kurzeme, if not most of Kurzeme. To give them development within a radius of 50-100 kilometres around this territory. It's exactly the same for Jelgava. Jelgava is the engine of all Zemgale. That was always the case, is and will continue to be the case. Question: "What task do we give this city?" And with this proposal, however, I would call for it to be maintained that these places, these engines, however, remain a driving force. The city of Jelgava or the city of Ventspils has never, nor has it been a task for the country to develop Ventspils or Jelgava. These cities have had the task of developing more. Their impact ranges, as I said, from 50 to 100 kilometres. If we look at Jelgava - then from Talsi to Jaunjelgawa. It is a range of services provided by the service facilities located in Jelgava. I'm talking about hospitals and universities, universities... educational institutions. This impact range is much, much, much wider. At the moment, we want to put them in a frame like that, and I think this frame doesn't explain this task here. We say that you are now developing Jelgava Municipality...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U422	Mr. Valaiņš, your time is up.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U423	I will continue with my thoughts on other proposals, my fellow Members. Unfortunately, I do not have more time available for your vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U424	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U425	Mrs. Monsieur, you were so beautifully drawn from the UKP... Mrs. Muižniece, you talked so beautifully about the fact that you do not understand why Ventspils and Jelgava do not have the status and then vote 'no'. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Somehow this also indicates double dullness. It's beautiful to come up, then it's funny to negotiate and then press that button, because you have a Strike or what makes it if. ( Internouncing call.) It's... That's one thing. The other thing, about duality speaking. This is a question of big cities. Pouce was busy in Brussels. I looked at where he is. He's meeting Gret Toonberg. This is more important than reform. Plastic pacts shall be signed. It is signed that we may use less plastic bags in Riga stores. It is more relevant to him today than the division of Latvia in general than the Dombrava Saulkrasti House, it is more important to him. That is why he is in Brussels. For the big cities... We have two mayors here. One thinks... one thinks how he and the trees will chart the 1900 parks in the center of Riga, if, in the very center...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U426	Mr Gobzem, please for 13. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U427	Don't stop me! I am referring to this subject, which concerns large cities.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U428	It's not about big cities.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U429	And the other... the other is just a table on the posts. There is no point in itself. ( Internouncing call.) Riekstins knows only from a place to scream, he cannot climb up on any question, because he just doesn't have an education, just doesn't have an education. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “But elected, didn’t he? What?” ) The big cities - it is a question not how to cut one or the other... I mean, the center in Kurzeme, well, that's the development centre, if already, for example, Ventspils is no longer there big... All right, there's something going on in Liepaja. But make Gudenieki the big center of development, where the oil gains! What are you doing? Where things are going, Suiti. There's oil, it's okay. But where education centres are, where university really is, it's... It doesn't fit you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) I think what you're doing... It is counter-national. And the day will come, and it won't have to wait long for you all to respond to this anti-state action before the people of Latvia. Everybody as one! ( Internouncing call.) It is for the reason that you cannot pass laws that are beneficial only to you and not to society as a whole. The reform must be carried out, but it cannot be that we are doing good...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U430	Mr. Gobzem, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U431	... for one Member only. That must not be the case!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U432	Mr. Gobzem, time. Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U433	Many, many thanks to Mr Kirštein for mentioning the word 'logism'. This is exactly how this reform is lacking, as well as part of the debate, because the logic must be. I will remind you of the logic of this decision. Why we are currently fighting for Jelgava and Ventspils to be on the list of big cities. From the beginning, there were only two cities on this list: Riga and Jurmala. What happened next? Then KPV LV with its political ultimative position achieved the addition of Liepaja to these major cities. This was the result of the political ultimatum of KPV LV. Thank you very much, great thanks to Mr Kazinovsky, whom I really respect very much as an honest public official, for their openness and for the opportunity to know today that Rezekne and Daugavpils have regained their status as a major city thanks to the political stance of the JPPP. Unfortunately, I do not know how ultimative it was. Then we only have two cities. And it turns out that there is no more who to install ultimates, because the ZZS is in opposition. And what do we see? That there is only one logic in decisions - political. But when it comes to another logic, economics, I can say so... I really asked an elementary question to the representative of VARAM - please tell me, what criteria differ Rēzekne from Ventspils? Why Rēzekne has a major city, then the status of the Republican city, but Ventspils does not? The answer simply wasn't, nothing. My question was ignored. But when talking about attitudes towards people and the question whether this reform is a reform for people, I can simply tell you what happened in the Commission, when representatives of VARAM said about the residents of Ventspils district about it: well, there is only a forest, there are some people around the river living!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U434	Colleagues, it's time... or it's a moment for an interim. ( The ring of noise.) Please... Don't you need an intermediate? Okay. Then we keep going. Let's go! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “Replace the driver!” ) Let us change. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U435	Dear colleagues, Last year, when it was announced that Rēzekne, Daugavpils and Liepaja will be successful and that the status of the Republican city is preserved, Minister Juris Pūce said that amendments to the draft law were made after the data analysis showed that the municipalities to be formed will be able to perform the functions assigned to them by law and that such a decision was made because the municipalities themselves encouraged such changes. Colleagues, also in the case of Ventspils and Jelgava, are able to carry out all the functions assigned to them themselves, and in these cases both cities and districts have expressed their desire to be separate. He also admits to himself that they did not have time and were unable to assess all the proposals in substance and, to a large extent, left it to Members. Colleagues, we have the opportunity to evaluate all proposals on the substance and to make logical, reasonable, not only politically motivated decisions, leaving Jelgava and Ventspils the status of the big city or republic.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U436	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U437	Dear Mr. Plesh! You said in your speech that there was no... that this issue is not political. If it were political, it would also be affected by Jurmala. But maybe someone does not tell you the initial decisions, because you are still a relatively unprecedented politician in the Saeima. So the initial assessment and the direction of the decision were: adding Babite municipality to Jurmala. Unfortunately, it was difficult to do this because the Lielupe, which separated Babites from Jurmala, was in the middle, and therefore it was abandoned by VARAM. So, dear colleagues, we will still be assessing the reform, not from a political point of view, but from a practical point of view, how people will live afterwards, in the future. We support this proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U438	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U439	I'm with my party. Please, if you think you will remain in the government, if you now vote like this, you will throw it out anyway. Just don't hurt Latvia before. No, seriously! And... but the other thing. I do not agree with Aldim in relation to Anita Muižnieki, who must have been out of the room. I think she is a very independent person, and I have some respect for him. I think she didn't vote for Jēkabpils and Valmiera, because technically - technically! - it no longer qualified for big cities today, unfortunately. But I hope she will vote in favour of Valmiera... “for” Jelgava and Ventspils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U440	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U441	Some things are clear. Some time ago, the head of the commission reasoned on the big cities, saying that he had been carefully evaluated. Colleagues! Careful evaluation... it is possible to get acquainted with it. This is this information report here. In the information report the cities, cities of the republics, mentioned only for the reason that they are, but in no way has been explained. The only benefit that was mentioned from this reform, the economic benefit, is based not on the VARAM study, but on the Bank of Latvia study. In the study of the Bank of Latvia you have access to... Look at your computers... information is available... The Bank of Latvia says that its cities have not been assessed at all, the cities of the Republic have not been assessed at all in this offer. Thus, in general, no economic analysis of the supply of cities in the Republic has simply been carried out. I will keep your arguments in a moment's time, Mr Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U442	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U443	Colleagues! The public officials do not practice minor revenge, as you do. You're not public officials. You're... In the case of Jelgava and Ventspils, you do not act as public officials, you act as small-scale avengers, you act as fraudsters and OICs, you act against the best interests of the country. And I would very much like to vote today in favour of the reform, because I believe that at least some reform is better than it is at all. But what you're doing... you are just like little people who want to avenge, avenge and avenge again. That is all your policy. But it will never become a rich state, nor will it become a rich state. Stand over it! ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) And you obey! ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U444	Name of Member Regina Ločmelė (The Head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer. Sounds like noise. Substitution: “Repeat!” )... Name (Loud Noise) The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U445	I forgot to tell you one important thing before you vote in favour of this proposal. It will be historical in some way. We made one historic decision today. We no longer have cities in the Republic, there are cities, but the number of cities will fall. I would also like to inform our members of the Commission that it appears - the 80 hours we worked on voting on all these 315 proposals... that the result of the vote was recorded in figures only. There are no documents about what Members voted like, who were 'no', who were 'yes', who abstained as Mr Kazinovsky. ( Internouncing call.) I found it by chance, I will make a correction in the future, and I will ask every meeting to see all the people, all the Members who vote in favour and who vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U446	Time, Mrs. Luņova!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U447	I don't know if it happened by accident or if it was...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U448	Time, Mrs. Luņova! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Time!” ) Sorry, time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U449	... done specifically, but you will vote immediately, and your names will be recorded.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U450	Mrs. Luņova, your time is up! Time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U451	And yours, Mrs. Strique, too!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U452	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U453	Oh, my fellow! It's good that the camera doesn't exist, so I can tell you. ( Internouncing call.) Look, I think it's too much for that opposition that time. I listened very carefully and could not hear why Ventspils and Jelgava should be big cities. Most of all, of course, I was reminded of Mr Krauze's speech, because Mr Krauze was talking about two fundamental things. The first one was that we don't even have in that dictionary: revenge. He talked about revenge, revenge, revenge... ( Internouncing call.) I understand that the word'revenge' for the Union of Greens/Farmers is in the first line of her... ( Interface: “In the Programme! ”) ) in the programme, yes. We don't have that! We just don't have one. ( Milestones.) Then Mr. Krauze... No, we're debating! Mr. Plant, come on! Neither did you talk about Ventspils and Jelgava as big cities. Well, what are you here for me?Is that so? Then you talked about the fact that one Member has shown your fellow Member a side. ( Milestones.) You know what? You come here, you stand and you show up to four colleagues! ( Imposition: “The driver of the sitting... “) I understand that Ventspils is one hemisphere and Jelgava is the other hemisphere, according to your opinion. ( The intermediate call: “And you are a star in heaven! ” (Laughter) No, no, I understand, talking about... No, I understand that Mr. Krauze wanted to talk about these two cities like every piece of art... There must be three things in every work of art: something of mystiques, something of faith. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U454	Mr Bondar, on the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U455	Yeah. And something of sex. ( Intercretion: “For Bondor only one thought in mind! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U456	On the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U457	And on the proposal... about Jelgava and Ventspils. I think our colleague, Mr. Krauze, tried... tried to bring these three cases together during the discussion of the proposal. Mystique... Why are these cities big? They are, of course, big when they are viewed from the Cats, but if they are from Riga, there is nothing to do with the big city. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Šmits: “Let’s lose Riga, let’s lose Latvia”) Mystika! It's mystic. Yeah. Something of faith. No, I understand that there are churches in both Ventspils and Jelgava... ( The utterances: “Time! ”) ) Churches are... And... Yes. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) And about the sexuality that he mentioned in his speech, I will not repeat... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U458	He's got time... Look at this! The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U459	I would invite colleagues not only to look from Riga, but also to travel to Latgale, as well as to other sides (Dep. M. Bondar: “I was in Strenčos yesterday!” ) and look from other sides. ( Insight: “Now all Latvia knows where you were! ” ) The vision of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the views of the Ministry, with the reform proposal, the first offer he had, have not changed, and they believe that an area where there is no large, pronounced development centre cannot develop, and this is a problem. But opinions are different, different, and my vision is different. I believe that this one large development centre does not always have a good impact on the surrounding area, if she is substantially and completely different from this large centre, as is the case in most cases, from the vision of unification of our regions and cities. Just like our big Riga metropolis, it does not have a very good effect on the rest of Latvia, and in such a combination it could happen. Unfortunately, however, the map changed during the negotiation process and in the assessments, and I understand that the situation is quite different at the moment from that of September last year, and I call on everyone to consider looking at the situation that it is today, not at what it was when we saw the first picture and the first version. And there must be conclusions from what has happened so far, and maybe you should not ignore it or say, "No, we don't see it, we won't appreciate it." The situation is changing, and I hope that a solution will be reached for these major cities here, too, by the third reading. You can ironize how big or small they are, but this status feeling that they are cities will certainly remain because there will be in the city's nature. I agree with Mrs Bluke, they will not disappear, but I call on her to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U460	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U461	Dear colleagues, Well, laughing at the edge, but I really didn't hear what Jurmala was like to have no Jelgava. ( Interface: “Sea! ” ) I am glad that Jurmala is on this list, because I have been living in Jurmala for several years. Well, believe me, in such a human understanding and also just as our constituents understand it if... Well, I go to Jurmala every day. There's nothing there, let's say in Jelgava, no industry, no people, no... Well, come on... Mr. Plies! What... Why is Jurmala - yes, but Jelgava - no? The sea is there or... Is that so? What is in Jurmala that she's on this list and Jelgava isn't there? I didn't hear it. I did not hear any arguments. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U462	I closed the debate. Do you have anything to say in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U463	For the Commission... 13. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal - was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U464	Please call me! Let us vote on Amendment 13! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 48, for - 3. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U465	Consequently, the 14th proposal is not a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U466	No vote, yes. We can debate it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. T. Plīss: ‘We can debate!’ ) A debate started. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U467	We can debate. And this debate, I think, remains if anyone is ever interested in the way in which we have reached this point. I began to talk earlier about Member Lewis's argument as to why these proposals should not be supported and that the VARAM's vision of how it should take place should nevertheless be maintained. With regard to research. As I have already mentioned, neither information reports nor the study by the Bank of Latvia has analysed the big cities, nor has it analysed at all. Only mentioned as factual... that there are in Latvia, for example, nine cities of the republic. To that extent, reference is made. But the communication mentioned the fact that there are such good examples in Europe. Ireland... Ireland was mentioned. Today, for some time back, I have already called you a model of Irish administration for local authorities from the platform. This has not been pointed out by VARAM that Ireland has a four-level governance model. So four levels. And that is very important precisely for this proposal. Regarding how the European Commission looks. The European Commission also says that there is a need for reform. The European Commission is not saying that such a reform is necessary. And here I do not agree with Mr. Plesh. You are talking about functional territories, although nobody has made it clear today, with regard to European funds, how these new functional territories - a city with a rural area - will then operate in this area. And if the funds... I started talking about how public administration... So far, public administration has made a very precise distinction between what cities, large cities, and what rural areas are doing, thus also diversifying their development scenarios and saying that they are still two different administrations. For example, policies developed by the Rural Support Service... only on a case-by-case basis - and this is fisheries - where there are LEADER programmes where large cities can apply. All the rest of the cities are denied. And so do urban politics in cities. And urban policy is aimed at cities. And their task is to serve not only the city itself, but a much wider territory. As far as urban policy is concerned, it has not already been said... then, will rural support instruments, for example, be available to Jelgava? Will it be, or will it be? Reasonable question. If that happens... and now your supported offer in full...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U468	Mr. Valains, time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U469	Well, I'll go on in a minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U470	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U471	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you: do you think so sad at all, a few years ahead? Because today you... If the ZZS cities - Ventspils, Jelgava and so on - then no, then there is no city anymore, at least there is no big city. But think about what will happen? Have you seen your ratings? In less than three years' time, there will be an FAO here, but you will not be one third or one third of you will not be here in three years' time. ( The box “How Do You Know? ”) ( ) What will happen then? Then again, of course, Ventspils and Jelgava, and so will become the big cities. And then let's imagine... If there is no agreement? Or, for example, the Unity will be in opposition. What will then - Cesis will be deleted from the map, for example? What precedent do you set here? Just think so, huh? Now, whether a city or a town or a village, or who is there, will depend on whether or not its measure is in the ruling coalition, if? You just created such a bardaque in the country, colleagues. Think about it!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U472	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U473	I'll go on, yeah. So in terms of fund breakdowns. There is something about cities and what is about rural areas. This has been done intentionally. But is there a public administration service still somewhere like that? One example: Public transport, colleagues. Urban public transport is organised by... The city of the Republic shall be organised in the cities of the Republics itself. Outside the city of the republic, it is organized by the state with all its state policies. At the moment, Mr. Plesh said that the city had not lost its status. Mr. Plies, the city is losing its status! The city loses the status of the republic city, which showed its place in the hierarchy of public administration and in the map of public administration. It showed this place now - Ventspils and Jelgava are combined with Iecava, for example. Slaughter... That's one to one put together. The division must be made, because their size, policy, everything is completely different, it cannot be put together. Ventspils cannot be combined and Jelgava can not be combined with other, small territories.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U474	Mr. Valaiņš, I'm sorry, your time is up. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U475	Two things. First, when it comes to the status of a republic or a metropolitan city, it divides the respective municipality into a hierarchy of the local government administration, which, by the way, retains special supervision from the same party. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction Article 56 (c) of CRR Point 2. There is much talk about development opportunities, creating regions around development centres. I have just said that everything was done with Ventspils to sink its city's economy into the deeper, the better. I don't know what purpose or purpose is, but the fact is. Why am I saying that? Because nothing is such a very temporary option as development centres. Perhaps someone remembers that there were two big cities in the United States in their time: Chicago and Detroit, the centres of relevant industries. And what... especially with Chicago, what happened there? Its cities came to bankruptcy, and there was no development. There was a question of preservation. That's why we don't have to go into an administrative or development centre here... will be the center of development forever. Therefore, there must also be a more flexible approach here, and perhaps this should not be the case with normal proposals that really aim to improve this administrative territorial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U476	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U477	Well yes, how can you really accept what is big and what is small without criteria? Well, I just don't understand. We're... clear order would be that we would define in the law... I'll remind you again of what I said. So there's a specific number from which we start to call the city big. Whether they are, I don't know, 15...20...10 or 50 thousand people, but then it's clear. Then there is a clear criterion. For example, the big city is 25 thousand and more, all right. That's what we're counting on... or 20. Then it is clear which cities can strive for, which cities can also build their own development to become the big ones, and which will be just cities. But I think here, well, if we look at it, it doesn't matter anymore, because what's big and small then? Then we could also, in the education reform... Well, is it important, is it a big high school or a small high school? Why do we set criteria there? Well, then we could also say that, for example, there may already be a high school with 45 children, all right. Well, they're, yeah, long high school... What's the problem, huh? So we're going to do it in the future, if? I don't know. Just like... maybe we can also start in other areas, well. In the army, it is no matter whether the unit is large or small. Well, that's okay, we'll take the wire, we'll call it a big unit, if we call the wire a battalion, and everything's going to be fine in the army! Very much! The chief can fight like a battalion, right? I thought, though, well... Colleagues, now you understand what you yourself have written in that draft reform that will now be approved at second reading? ( Internexion: “This is the proposal from the FAO! ” ) No, you don't understand. That's it! And that is why we need to support our proposal, which... can no longer support because he has already voted. But you... I am simply trying to tell you what you have voted for. Perhaps one of the coalitions is also (Internext.) at third reading... present some good proposals at third reading. ( Insight: “We know what we have voted for! ” ) No, I think you do not understand what you are voting on. And then... What were we voting on? About the fact that small cities are big and big cities are small, huh? That's it? (Laughter) A maybe we really catch up with the field of education and the army as well. Because if we call the conductor a battalion, then we save a lot of money in the budget. ( Internouncing call.) And we'll have many battalions. ( Internoint.) Laughs.) Well, how's that? I convinced the coalition? Will you have any proposals for the third reading? ( Milestones.) Okay.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U478	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U479	Colleagues! You have already heard quite a lot of arguments about why it is worth maintaining the status of the city of the republic for the big cities of today, or Republican cities, even because of the acquisition of funds and even because of the special possibility of supervision, which Mr Dolgopolov mentioned. But I'm even more concerned, to be honest, about the interests of the municipalities. And in this context, when it was decided on Rezekne, Daugavpils and Liepaja, when the regions were left separately, without adding the major cities, one of the essential arguments the Ministry itself mentioned was that this ensures representativeness of the inhabitants of the municipality. Because there is indeed a real risk that, by connecting the region to the big city, the population of the municipality will have much less opportunity to influence life in its own region. Well, for example, Ventspils Municipality has a budget of 15 million. This is likely to be decided in the future by the inhabitants of Ventspils city and not by the residents of Ventspils municipality. You really wish this to the residents of Ventspils municipality? On representation speaking... Yes, civil society activities are, for example, also non-governmental organisations. They could also try, in some way, to activate society and ensure greater representation. But, colleagues, more than 50 percent of all NGOs are in Riga! There is a weak development of its civil society in the regions at present. Well, there are only folk dances and other, cultural... amateur cultural ensembles and collectives and hunting clubs. In this way, too, they will not be able to represent their interests. Well, then I can ask you a very rhetorical question - Mr. Pavļuta, for example, do you want Lembergs to decide on the budget of Daces, Peter and Jānis in Ventspils district?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U480	Mr. Gobzem, you're going to have two minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “I don’t have enough!” ) Slightly. Please have Members' presence regime! To read the results, the name is Maria Golubeva. Intermediaries up to 18.30.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U481	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Ināra Mūrniece, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U482	Dear colleagues, The break is over. Let's keep sitting. Before the break, we stopped on the 14th proposal. We are continuing the debate. Member Aldis Gobzems took part in the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U483	In general, I think we should find out whether the quorum is in the hall at all. Yeah... maybe check the quorum! Mrs. Lībiņa! ( Interface: “Let’s count! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U484	Mr Gobzem, please debate proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U485	The grass is half-empty because it's six in the evening, the coalition... ( Milestones.) The coalition is tired. Coalition tired... ( Milestones.) What I want to say about Jelgava. Jelgava has one of the oldest higher education institutions in Latvia, as we know. The UKP is an education minister who knows so much what is in the Pandoras stack. It is very likely that this is why the JCPOA believes that Jelgava, which has twice as many people as other big cities, cannot be regarded as a big city. And that is wrong in nature, and it should be changed. The second thing I want to say in the same context is the centres of development. That is what Jurmala is developing if we are talking about development centres? Probably tourism as the only thing. But then we should have added the whole coastline to Jurmala, it would have been only logical. Neither did you. Jurmala we have a big city, Jelgava we don't have a big city. In Jelgava, industry, education... I think that is absurd. I think that everyone in Latvia understands this, that such an approach is not national. And in reality, no matter what is in power in one city or another, it's simply not statehood. I think if we're talking about big cities, it's probably even better if all these so-called big cities... all are combined with the districts around these major cities. It would be much more logical than the two objectively large cities, which are in Latvia, to be excluded from the big... a list of major cities. That is what I wanted to say at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U486	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Ples, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U487	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, proposal 14 cannot be put to the vote because proposal 13 was not supported. 15. The motion tabled by Mr Kučinskis cannot be put to the vote either, as it has been rejected 13. - Mr Valaina's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U488	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U489	Good evening, chair of the sitting! Changes. Colleagues! I will continue the debate on this proposal in the past. And, as Mr. Plesh said, there was a thorough assessment to come to seven republics, I am sorry, five republican cities and two - Jēkabpils, Valmiera - to be combined with the surrounding territory, which is based essentially on... to make a significant mention... I think that's what I think of here. But I will speak later about Jekabpils and the region of Seliah. But for Jelgava and Ventspils. So there was a thorough assessment of Jelgava and Ventspils. As we were told at the commission meeting that there had been government and government services assessed all of this... and such a right decision has been made at the government meeting. I watched this record of the government sitting. And there, unfortunately, no services have said anything about this. In the commission responsible, we also raised this question of proportionality, and nothing was heard either. For those examples: Well, for example, Jelgava was compared with Cologne, Lilli, Glasgow. This is the case in other documents contained in the information reports. But without any other explanation of what these cities then differ. Cologne, Lille, Glasgowa - in all the countries where these municipalities are located, there is a completely different approach to regional governance. They cannot be compared. If we tried to compare the functions of this city, you would see a completely diametrically opposite picture of how these functions are performed. There were or no consultations on this. I have talked a lot about this, and I think it is right at the moment - to mention that consultations... There was a wish to start this consultation at the Saeima. And the Legal Bureau of the Saeima even drew attention to the fact that the nature of the consultations prior to the submission of the draft law to the Saeima did not really qualify as consultations, because no Member had any idea of what it was thinking about one or the other proposal for each particular municipality. In the Commission, however, the answers to the questions asked by the local authorities, which I asked the Ministry, were general, not substantive and did not even answer most of the questions. Well, for example, I even used a phone. You know how I answered that question about the school network - which will determine the minimum number of pupils in the class, where will these criteria be available when they can be seen in the city and in the region? Do you know what the answer to me was from our phone? The new municipality will set these minimum standards, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U490	Mr. Valains, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U491	Thank you. I'll go on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunov.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U492	Thank you. In the next debate, Mr Kučinskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U493	Colleagues! A little bit about the economy, because their aspect is not mentioned at all by anyone today. Which cities are still... outside Riga there are those which are developing at the moment most rapidly and which also have the closest potential to develop? I think I can say with complete certainty: it is Valmiera, Liepaja and it is clearly Jelgava, and it is beyond doubt with anyone else. Why did Valmiera choose to go with territories? This is also understandable in view of the fact that Valmiera is compressed, given that there are still district links there in any case and the area is needed. Is there a need for a territory next to Jelgava? No territory required. Because the city also has enough potential to do so and develop. If you had also carefully examined all the proposals, see the final one, one of the points of the transitional provisions, where also those cities that retain their status and the surrounding area - their own - are expected to, though they don't like it... I think it is wrong, however, that education development functions should be set up in a common structure. That means... the argument that something will prevent anyone from developing its range and working with the territories, too, does not withstand absolutely any criticism. And this is a risk issue. I am simply talking about the risks that can slow down development in one of these centres. I'm not talking about it elsewhere, either... that others also have potential, and we have been waiting for years to see that Daugavpils will finally give a great deal of opportunity... and the rest of the cities are, of course, also in front of them. But at this point I have the feeling that... I really think right now: something is being done strong, very wrong. It's premature. I assume that after some years it will be possible to unite and maybe Valmiera will eat all the surroundings there or Liepaja will also unite Jelgava, but now development... Well, let's say the preconditions aren't... and we are rather going to calm down what is happening in these cities.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U494	In the next debate, Mr Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U495	Yeah. As regards the way in which consultations were conducted, I can now say with certainty that during the consultations no answers were provided to the local authorities, even in written form, the local authorities asked these questions. But let's talk more about those functions, about the task of the state. At present, there is no analysis in the vote on these proposals, and no analysis of public services and municipal services in these areas has been available. Now, for example, emergency aid. How fast will the rapid response be in Jelgava district? Currently, these are two different things - Jelgava municipality and Jelgava city. How will an education service be provided in the city? Also two different things - the city and the municipality. It's not the same thing. Most importantly, public transport. It's a big thing. At the moment, the Ministry of Transport has launched a competition for public transport until 2029.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U496	Mr. Valains, time! Thank you. In the next debate, Member Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U497	As we know, this proposal cannot be put to the vote. But looking at the results of the vote on the 13th proposals, I have some optimism about the future, because the common sense team has been joined by a number of members of the National Alliance and two UK members, and I think it is welcome and hope that, for the third reading, which will be really on content this time, we could achieve better results for our country in terms of administrative territorial reform. I would like to add that this time even the President of Latvia and his legal advisers believe that the third reading of this draft law should be about content. And if we achieve a major change in content at third reading, the President will not regard it as a bad legislative practice, because unfortunately, we received a very raw bill for the second reading. It is a pity that there is no fourth reading where we could get a really great bill. Because reform is needed, but reform is needed which we would not be ashamed of in the future.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U498	Thank you. In the next debate, Mr Armands Krauze. ( Interface: “Do I have to repeat or how? ” ) The next item is Member Armands Krauze. Thank you. ( Insight: “If? It's okay! I... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U499	Let me tell you something again, of course, because you are (Interior: “On the proposal!” ) know this lighthouse. It is on the proposal because the proposal is... about what cities? I remind those who are asleep: the proposal is about cities in Daugavpils, Jelgava, Jurmala, Liepaja, Rezekne, Ventspils and Riga. ( Internouncing call.) And then if we look at why it's about these cities... In fact, what I am proposing is that the coalition should look more at the population. We could look at the population of cities, which is a logical criterion, rather than saying: “Jelgava... lala... “ and then we take for example 20,000, because... Why... Why 20? Because the city of Jēkabpils, which so far was as, now, the driving force of the region, the great city... There's 23,500 in the city of Jēkabpils. The next one is Salaspils with 18,900 inhabitants. And then, I think the big cities could be the following (by the way, if we go, logical criterion - so 20 thousand)... Ogre, which is not a big city, but what could be - 24,765 inhabitants, Valmiera - 24,967, Rezekne - 30,386, Ventspils - 38,059, Jurmala - 57 145, Jelgava - 60, 804, Liepaja - 76,618, Daugavpils - 913. And then remains Riga, of course, Riga, which is the capital. And I think that this proposal must, of course, also be supported at third reading... At third reading, the criterion of "20,000" could be simply clarified, and then it would be clear to all. But, of course, you have political motives and therefore you are not interested in any logic. You want to remove a whole city from the map. Unfortunately, that will be so. It is therefore regrettable that this proposal is not to be put to the vote, but there is in any case a third reading. And, to be honest, if you work badly, you can also get a fourth reading, because, as you know, this is because the President returns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U500	Thank you, Mr. Krauze. In the next debate, Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U501	In fact, Latvian folk proverbs tell you all the time about you. The Latvian nation has not been stupid; it has been very smart, unlike some who are in this hall. The Latvian People’s proverb states: “Be better done one work than a hundred surfaces.” What you're doing: You've been hanging some laws all the time and then trying to pee out that you've done something. Better do one piece of work, make one piece of reform, vote enough for you. Good, good quality you can do it. So what's the difference, will that decision be made today or half a month later? But you can't. Obviously there is no intellectual potential. ( Interface: “Of course... “ There are obviously other problems, material interest. For free or for free, such as BIP with its sponsors through cafes, only lived and received... receive orders. That's it. You already think you're making a decision. In fact, you're already a puppet - what the sponsors tell you, that's what you decide. That's it, it's it! ( Internouncing call.) And you're a puppet with your sponsors, too, a little bit more (The Head of the Sitting knocks down with a hammer.) with other problems.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U502	I would remind you that we are debating the proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U503	And therefore, listen to the proverb: “Be better to do one work carefully than a hundred surfaces.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Tell me this, you joke!” ) Riekstin, you get up in the podium and, before you call me a joke, read one book at least in life, one book! ( Milestones.) What you mean by your nine-class education... Listen to me, Riekstin! Do you understand? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U504	Colleagues! We are looking at the draft law at second reading, we need to debate the proposal. Please debate proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U505	And that's what... society, you have to see - in this hall people without education... The only thing they can do is to get out of the room. Step up, talk and explain what the reform will be - they are unable to do, and Riekstins is a classic example of this - without education, to the dull was in the Saeima, acting in the interests of sponsors. That's all they can do. There's more than there. ( Milestones.) And finished. On the reform. I say again: I would support, I believe it should be adopted today, but make these minor changes... the major mistakes that you have made - take them and change them! And don't listen to those who don't have any education... And the only thing that sponsors say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U506	Thank you. I remind you that the Saeima roll of order... The law states that, at second reading, Members are debating the proposal and are not talking to the room. ( Intercretion: “It should have been said! ” ) We are continuing the debate. The next one is Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U507	Dear colleagues, With regard to Jelgava and with regard to Mr Riekstins, I would like to point out that, in my opinion, today we are deciding on this draft law without the presence of Mr Pouce. And it's not for nothing that Mr. Pouce... the fact that Mr Puce is not present today, because it is understandable: everything can be planned, you can plan to see this draft law at a particular time... because Mr Puce is taking part in a Council of Environment Ministers today, where once again we are talking about various climate nightmares, I am sorry. On Wednesday, we directly approved the climate policy on which Mr Pouce seems to defend Latvia's interests today. He's not defending anything, he's talking about how to address the heating of the oven, against CO... about reducing CO to zero. And Mr. Kirstein remembers it very well, and only if... if Mr Znotiņš had not voted on Wednesday, we too would not have been approved and Mr Pouce would probably still be here today. I hope that perhaps we will, however, get to the point that Mr Pouce will still be here and will also be able to defend this reform, which he is unable to defend, because he now has to combat plastic bags in Brussels.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U508	Mr Sergey Dolgopolov, Member of the next debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U509	I'm on the proposals... Dear colleagues, The proposal. You know, it seems that it's one of the big myths that the development centre must be connected to the region. If we look at the nearby history, Riga... It was the center of industry and now continues to be such... statistics showed that people went to work in Riga every day, even from about a hundred kilometres away from Riga. This is also the case with all other development centres. For example, when Aloy and Staicele were combined, there was nothing left in Staicele, and then people went to Salacgrīva, to Valka, to other places, but it was not the centre of the municipality, the so-called development centre, so it is purely conditional that by combining the city with the municipality, we are building the development centre for the municipality. It's a myth. If there are jobs, people will go from where it is beneficial to go, if there are appropriate roads. And this is a separate subject that should not be discussed, including about administrative territorial reform. That is why, in this case, the proposal that has been made today is a logical proposal. And naturally, it's a pity that you can't vote for it again, but in principle it can be supported by 3 or 4, perhaps even 5th reading after the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U510	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr. Plies, would you like to add something? I would remind you that this 15th proposal cannot be put to the vote. ( Intercretion: Thank you!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U511	Yes, proposal 15 cannot be put to the vote. Thank you. Let's go, colleagues. 16. There is a proposal from the Member, Mr Kazinovsky. And it's about proposal 2... where we discussed the creation of administrative regions. And, as I said, the Commission created the 70th and 105th proposals establishing administrative regions and creating a new law to ensure this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U512	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U513	Yeah. This is an opportunity to return to the second-level governance model. This is the right place to determine, since this section of the law defines the administrative areas in which public administration is carried out. This proposal is linked to proposal 70, but in the commission process... I will say this: Mr Kazinovsky was tried to blind his eyes and called on him to support his 112 proposal, was it a commission... We will get to that, but with such a proposal, if we do it now, now... At the moment we would vote, we would go really good legislative practice, which is also pointed out by the President of Latvia to all Members of the Saeima, including to me... has already indicated in its letters on budget law, for example... What he pointed out. The previous President has also pointed out good legislative practice to the Members of the Saeima. And in this case, even during the meeting with the President of Latvia, he pointed out that these issues should be resolved at second reading, in order to be clear, and for the third reading to be slightly more precise. The proposal provides for the establishment of these administrative regions. Mr. Kazinovsky, I think very... has chosen this approach. I have a slightly different approach, but I also support it because it's the same thing, only different moves. This proposal would make it possible to build on planning regions. Well... In my view, a greater capacity for this and a more successful outcome would be if we were to make greater use of the big cities, no matter how much they are left to us at the moment, but to build this administrative capacity on the basis of the big cities. But I will remind you once again - good legislation calls for a debate now for a second reading. And this is a proposal for administrative regions, which should now be supported. The Commission itself conceptually supported this idea, but I would like to remind you: everyone can get acquainted with the law in force. The law in force, after which we work today, contains counties. And these counties were placed under the task of implementing the 2009 reform by 2013. As it happened then, the arguments were exactly the same as today - we are not ready, let's talk, let's work after sometime, let's take this card and then think further. Unfortunately, this does not happen. And life proves that these issues have to be looked at in the context, which was also pointed out by the President of Latvia when we met: to be the maximum...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U514	Mr. Valains, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U515	... a lot of answers. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U516	Thank you. In the next debate, Mr Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U517	Dear colleagues, This is one of the basic proposals for administrative regions. Okay, I do not mind that there may be Article 70 this vote on the fact that there will be these administrative regions, but Article 3... This vote will be in favour of administrative regions. But Article 3 tells us what administrative territories are. So now there are districts, cities and... as a proposal... the third could be administrative regions. It is a specific administrative area. If this is not supported, then I have a question. Consequently, the division of administrative areas in the absence of administrative regions... then Article 70, where will it be called Latgale, Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme - what will they be? What will it be? It will not be any administrative territory. Some amorphous areas. It is very important to vote here. That is not the case. I think that this article could actually be supported in the 70s and also during the transitional period, but it should be voted on. Then I would okay - satisfied and could vote with a calm heart for 70., which the commission drafted. Please support, especially the Members from the regions, you are also the sub- commission of Latgale... Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme, as well as Riga. Either we try the country or we do not try to develop through the regions. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U518	Thank you. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U519	And those who have not voted - please also vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U520	Name to Member Armand Kraupe, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U521	Yeah. I’ll tell you again this time. — Hall laughter. which the President has written to you and which may not have been read by everyone. And I would like to say, first of all, that I support Mr Kazinovsky's proposal that these administrative regions of public administration should have the historic names that, by the way, have been mentioned by the President of Latvia. That is what you are aware of, and therefore support Mr Kazinovsky. Then I'll quote. ‘ In addition to the above-mentioned questions on local communities, I would like to point out that the aspects of belonging and identity would be significant, including when deciding about the borders of the city, municipality and municipality of the Republic. The introduction to the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia provides that the State of Latvia has been established by merging the historical Latvian lands listed in Article 3 of the Satversme - Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale.” And it is Mr Kazinovsky's proposal that includes this. The President further said: “The territorial territorial division of Latvia by the Satversme included in the law is the next legal act, which defines more specifically the territorial units of Latvia and their boundaries. Therefore, it is a little surprised that in the context of the administrative territorial reform of the historical Latvian land is not mentioned at all.” And in this case, at least they will be mentioned in support of Andra Kazinovsky's proposal. I would say that it is even a little that the President says. More needs to be done, because really... we, which form Latvia's country... What are these areas... it is enshrined in the Constitution, and that is why we should also have the perfect logic... And you who made that law... not to groan somewhere and look at political competitors, but simply open the Constitution and read the elementary thing. Therefore, please support what Mr Kazinovsky has presented.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U522	Thank you. Member Sergey Dolgopolov, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U523	I very much appreciate Mr Kazinovsky's knowledge, experience, practice and also the insistence he is trying to achieve a regional structure, a regional level. Undoubtedly, if such an idea is included in the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations, it must necessarily be indicated accordingly. And as Mr. Kazinovsky proposes, then really must be at the very beginning of the bill with one remark. We can refer to the Constitution, where four regions of Latvia are named. But if we talk about a law that is... which results from the Satversme and results from a new concept of administrative territorial division, the draft law must be accompanied by an appropriate map where these territories should be designated. It takes some time. Unfortunately, there is no time, it is not time for the process. But I would ask you to support it to 70. - the Commission's proposal would not remain as it was already in 2008, when there is indeed a legal norm on the counties, which was not seen, directed, debated or otherwise. That is why there must be specificity here, and that proposal, in my view... should be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U524	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U525	I will continue what Sergey Dolgopolov said and will say even more. Andris Kazinovskis came to this Saeima with the idea of second level. It was his dream child, it was a long-year study. And he really experiences it as his child. What did his colleagues do? They voted all his proposals, voted in such a way that they really would not leave Andra Kazinovsky's name in any sentence that talks about the second level. Because what is proposed to us today in the 70th proposal sounds like that they will be regions for which there will be a separate special law. So today we are being offered to vote for a cat in a bag, because we do not know what they will be for the regions. It is said that there will be implemented functions of both state and local government. We know today only that ministries do not want to get rid of their functions, but we do not know what functions they want to share with the new municipalities. Only one is important for our group. And what is embarrassing us in this proposal by Mr Kazinovsky - it is said here... will be an administrative region for public administration. Because our group wants the regions to be elected directly or indirectly on the part of the heads of government, but elected, not from the state, from above. And I'd like to finish with only one of my personal views. It was said here that we are currently building a building... one-storey building, first floor and then we'll try to put it on the second floor. I think the other way around. In my opinion, it is not the right name for the second level. But it's a foundation. It's a foundation! And in principle, the whole reform could only be the creation of this foundation. Unfortunately, the reform itself was not brought to an end. I really regret that Mr Kazinovsky's opinion was not taken seriously and nationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U526	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U527	The group of non-group Members will also support this Member's proposal. Because we believe that already in this law it must be noted that we are thinking about the second level now and not sometime - we do not know when. That is why I also call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U528	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U529	The mayor of the municipality Jušas has not passed any longer, talking about the municipality, he has already pumped, everything already, through already! (Laughter) He can no longer talk about reform. I would like to thank you most of all, Mr Kazinovsky. You, Mr Kazinovsky, are the only UK Member who does not submit to your undemocratic dictate of troika - Strick, Juish and Bordan - and think with common sense. I would like to thank you, because democracy is objectively limited in your group, and that is what we all know in the Saeima. And what you have presented in your proposal, Mr Kazinovsky, is fully in favour not only because it is logical, but because it is laid down in Article 3 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. I would recommend to the entire coalition to finally open the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia and to read that Vidzeme, Latgale, Zemgale and Kurzeme conclude the territory of Latvia within the limits set by international treaties. What Mr Kazinovsky says is that if we carry out an administrative territorial reform, we cannot forget such a distinction in the Constitution. It is absolutely clear that this is legally correct. That's logical. It is a respect for our historical values. And that's why... You know very well that I have criticised a lot in the UK, but you also know that I have always praised everyone, regardless of political affiliation or political party... in different lots. And I've tried to be fair in my assessments. And I also call on the other UK Members who have left some conscience and common sense to support their colleagues, a member of their group... the proposal of a member of his party related to compliance with the Satversme. And now, dear Members of the coalition, get ready, you are prepared for a wonderful surprise. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U530	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U531	I want to clarify a little what Regina Lochmele-Lunova said. Why are the regions of public administration in this article? Yeah... I understand that this debate on governance is not a matter of this law. Control, it's gonna be later. About... When we look at the specific draft law. Okay, if it is an obstacle to the name'regions of public administration', I undertake to clarify for the third reading - simply 'administrative regions' - in order to discuss elected or public administration regions, as they will be, administrative regions... It's later. That is why I would ask once again for support. This is not in contradiction with everything else that is in this law, but only adds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U532	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U533	Can I, huh? Colleagues, I would like to say to Mr Kazinovsky why there will be no second level. Because already now the government is clearly in favour of it never decentralising, under any circumstances. And how? For example, VARAM, responsible ministries, a letter with the fact that they don't see now, they don't have time and some time... is an information report submitted by the Ministry, even in the government, that the ministries are required to deliver these opinions. We saw for ourselves the understanding of the ministries of... you told me more, we told the ministries more together, which is the second level of government than they understood. And at the moment, the senior office has not already, by its very nature, given any clear vision of it in the Commission, except for certain ministries, but not in general. That's why I think it's just...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U534	Mr. Valains, time! ( Milestones.) Thank you. Before we continue the debate, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from five Members - Zarina, Orlova, Krišana, Stepanenko and Dūklav - to consider proposals in the Law on Administrative Territories and settlements, announcing a break at 7.15 p.m. and continuing the discussion on this subject on 12 March from 9 a.m. According to the parliamentary roll of order one can speak “for”, one can speak “for”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “I want to talk about it!” ) Mr. Zarins, please! You have the word “for”.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U535	Colleagues! This is a constructive call by the opposition for us not to turn the Saeima's work into a farce and deal with this responsible issue responsibly, rather than trying to do something in the black of the night, as it is usually common for you when you want to do something, from which you are shy and want to hide from the public. We call for a high-quality debate, given that we are doing it from 10 a.m., now it is over seven o'clock. And we've only examined 300... more than 300 proposals (Interior: Ivar, help!) )... 16. We therefore call for a break to this sitting and for it to continue, as we have generally accepted, as we have done normally. It's normal working time. We've done it, there's a break, we're going back, we're going to work. If you want to impose unconstructive working regimes, we will respond to you, honourable Members, and as a result you will certainly not benefit, but society as a whole will be able to assess what you are doing and what you want to achieve now. ( Interface: “Ivar... “ We will find a way... how the opposition will be able to express its opinion on how to justify it, despite the fact that you are now trying to prevent it and try to do so in such a way that it happens in the black of the night when no one is able to follow us again and when you can therefore do what you are shy about. It is not in the interests of the Latvian people, nor is it in the interests of the future of Latvia's country. ( Internouncing call.) This is a very important issue, and we also offer it. (Laughter) And thank you. ( Interface: "Vote for"!) ) This is a very important issue for all Latvian society as well as for the future of our country. ( Internouncing call.) Take this way about this important issue... you show disrespect for the country of Latvia, the society of Latvia and also confirm that you are not convinced of what you are doing. ( Internouncing call.) The fact that you do not make sense about this issue is something we have already found out, but there is an opportunity to continue this work constructively. And that is what we are calling for. ( Internouncing call.) If you are not constructive, I repeat once again: the opposition will find a way to respond to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U536	Thank you. ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U537	I call, of course, on all those who do not stand up for the interests of Latvian society to expect a qualitative discussion on the reform. And I call on those who want a high-quality discussion during normal work to vote in favour. Let me explain in detail so that you can understand. You feel that you will now vote 'no' and that everything that we will now be working for 24 hours, despite the fact that Juišas has already fainted somewhere, Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas is also unable to chair the sitting. You're weak, UK Members! You can't keep your opposition danks with you, even when you don't go on the platform, you can't... You can't sit down. ( Internouncing call.) I say to you, we, as the opposition, have come up with a way of finding a way, a time, a place for absolutely all the arguments about all the proposals as much as we want. It will not be constructive, but it will not be just as constructive as you treat Latvian society unconstructively. You chose such a tactic during the budget discussion, and you thought you got it, but you lost it. And you will lose more and more support from it. And the fact that you, Mr. Cole, say the second or the first, it doesn't matter. In the Saeima, if there is no urgency, draft laws shall be examined in three readings. And there must be a full debate at every reading. As you know, Mr Kola, there is a debate at second reading on specific proposals that you do not want to be full. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Colls: “In the Commission 18 hours... !” ) But what we want to explain to the public - and I will repeat it even for the tenth time - is the reform in which we are making Dombrava a special district or Helman there... he is still in the process or not, in the criminal proceedings of your member Ogre... Helman... in order to probably have more room for surgery, add to the Ischel, for example. We want to explain this to the public, and we will find time to explain it to the public. And the more you are ashamed to talk about it, the more we will explain it. Why is this important? This is important because, at this stage of the reform, at second reading, we have an objective opportunity to prevent all material errors. All the major mistakes! And at the third reading go with the reform, which more or less agrees with the majority of Latvian society... which is fair, which is state, not selfish. And I call on the UK Members... Well, it's the Mayor of Riga, it's the candidate, it's the performer! You can't sit in one Saeima sitting! What will he do in Riga? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) He is now going to go looking for someone or again for some deal with sponsors if he is unable to stay in the Saeima during his work. The potential municipal manager is unable to sit the day in his direct job duties. I guess he went, I'm sorry, I'm going to have some stuff. You think... Oh, I realized he's probably starting to plant those trees. Those millions of trees have already gone to plant tonight. But it's March at all, and in March still doesn't set up trees, I'd like to say it. It does so by the end of April, May. But not about it. I call on you to approach this discussion constructively for a number of reasons, for other reasons. And these other reasons are: There's... with all due respect, I do not want to offend them, but there are older people, and there is also a woman who is pregnant. Nothing will happen if we continue tomorrow, if we continue on Saturdays and Sundays and Mondays and Tuesdays and during one week's work. People will be able to follow them normally, and society as a whole will be able to follow them normally. Don't you want any constructive action? You're going to get unconstructive. You'll see it right away in five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U538	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote for the proposal to announce a break at the Saeima sitting and to continue the examination of the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations” on 12 March from 9.00. Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, against - 54, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported. We are following the debate on proposal 16. Member Didzis Schmidt spoke in the next debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U539	Andrey, it's gonna be okay! I think there will be a second level after this farce, what is happening here today and what people are watching. I think at least those affected will see different contexts. People, counties, cities, right? The country as a whole... I think we will not come at third reading in this Saeima Chamber. Well, there's going to be a lot of tractors and a lot of other events. So in the end, that second level will already be. So... I got up... You know, I have a different view of you. I believe that the second level should be the big cities in their regions. But I supported this proposal because, in fact, there is already one more thing. If we were to look at the reform at all, one important factor... I believe that it is certainly more logical to organise civil life around objectively large cities. But outside civil life there is another thing like civil protection and national defence. And there the planning level would definitely be even greater than... the cities of the republics, the major cities, the counties. But now it's a space, well, it's already in this debate, Andris, it's going to be space if we start to debate again, that the country needs to defend itself and that it needs even more level. I will. And there's going to be a second level! Hey, gentlemen, there's... and ladies! It is absolutely clear that either the tractor will carry this grass or it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U540	I closed the debate. Please call (Interior: on behalf of the Commission!) )... On behalf of the Commission, do you want to add something? All right, Mr. Plesh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U541	Colleagues! It's very short. As I mentioned earlier, both the Commission led by Mr Kazinovsky and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development are currently working on a set of functions and will become a new law that will ensure the second level of territorial administration in the territory of Latvia, which is included in the proposal 70 and 105 respectively, which has been jointly established by the Commission. And this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U542	Thank you. Please call me! Voting mode! Let us vote on Amendment 16! Please get the result! For -16, for -51, for -2. The proposal is not supported. But before we continue to examine the draft law, the Saeima Bureau has received a proposal from five Members - Zarina, Orlova, Krišana, Stepanenko and Gobzem - to declare a break to the Saeima on 5 March at its meeting from 7.30 a.m. to 9 a.m. on 12 March. One Member may speak for, one against. Mr. Valaiņš, are you going to talk about it or 'no'? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “ Against”! ) Against - please, Mr Valaiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U543	Colleagues! I think, of course, that the opposition is currently taking advantage of the opportunity to encourage a break in some way. ( Internouncing call.) However, I call on both the position and the opposition to address the debate on the proposals. I've done it all day long, I've got enough strength to keep doing it. Therefore, colleagues, let us do this well, but I call on you, too, not only to sit down, but also to work and come to this platform to debate, defend your proposals. So far, on the part of the government, the proposals are simply not being defended... very, very weak. Only the National Association works today. Colleagues, only the National Association works today! I think we're all going to work. If you need a break, then take a break if you need a break. But I think we can do without a break and continue to work constructively, to debate proposals... and honest decision making by all in such a total consciousness.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U544	Ivars Zarins has applied for a speech about it. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U545	A couple of important things in this regard. That is why we are asking Mr Valaiņš to be able to deliver his work constructively and productively, and that is what we will ensure for all the others as well. Here I heard a call from the hall: “It’s illegal, you can’t do it!” No, Mr. Judin, you can do it. We have just discussed it with the Bureau of Law. We may request such requests, we are entitled to demand and we are demanding... Right to ask for even five minutes, to ask for all time to vote and to remind you at all times that a break is necessary. We, the opposition, for our part, were against you in a constructive way, we assumed that you limited the time of the debate on this important issue, led it to the minimum that we could put forward constructively and tell everything the opposition would like to say, it is impossible. We accepted these conditions of the game and then we played. It would be normal that the day is over, we are making a break and, as we have always done, we are coming back next Thursday and continue to look at this issue. If you don't, I'll explain how we're going now. We will ask for such a break every five minutes. and every five minutes we will have five minutes, the five minutes you did not allow us to talk about these issues. And in this way, we will be able to talk about it, but the process will be even longer and you will have to sit even longer here, contrary to what you wanted to do when you wanted to hide it in a fixed way and drive it through - you will not. Do you need this suffocation? Do you want that? If you want it, then it will be up to you, only then do not cast it on the opposition. We will do our job. I invite you to support this proposal to be constructive (Interface: “Tell you anecdotes! You have three more minutes!” ), to support this proposal. Next time, I will talk about an anecdotes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U546	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote on the proposal to announce a break at the Saeima sitting by 9 a.m. on March 12! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. I would also like to inform you that the Bureau of the Saeima has received a proposal from five Members: Daniels Pavļuts, Ainars Latkovskis, Atis Zakaistovs, Juta Strike and Raivis Dzintars, requesting that the sitting on 5 March be held without interruption by 22.30 a.m. and then adjourn the session by 10 a.m. on 6 March. Mr. Gobzem, do you want to talk about 'or 'no'? ( Internouncing call.) Please, Mr Gobzem, speak against!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U547	Dear Coalition, you obviously haven't read the parliamentary roll of order. Even if you vote that we are working today until 22.30 and then on 6 March, the parliamentary roll of order allows us to submit a new request in three minutes' time to talk about it. And we allow such a request to be made, and it must be examined... and voting on this matter - this is determined by the roll of order of the Saeima. I understand that you are the uncompromising enforcers of the rule of law who do not comply with the law, but this is clearly and clearly stated in the parliamentary order of the Saeima: every submission needs to be examined, and so I call on you, however, to take a constructive look at this issue, now that you do not get here where... that you will have a greater weight and that you will be able to do so. You know, we'll use this time, too... Now we are trying to use it to convince you that you cannot win in this procedural struggle. But if we continue to do so, we will use this time, these five or 10 minutes, to provide additional explanations on every proposal where you reduced the time. You understand that democracy does not mean that you can do everything you want. Each such restriction, every such violation, will mean arguments while then also before the Constitutional Court. Every procedural act, when you do not allow expression, restricts democracy and so on. Have you seen a highly developed democratic state in which the opposition is banned from speaking or restricting the right to speak? ( Interface: “You are not forbidden to speak! ” ) A highly developed country? Have you seen a highly developed country with one of the most important issues... how you... custom... view during the night? That's not happening! Highly developed democrats respect both society and their procedural opponents, as well as diversity of opinion, and so on. We will now vote for working without interruption until midnight in the evening. After five minutes you will get a new application, and it will have to be examined, and everyone will be able to talk about and against. This is determined by the order of the Saeima. You know, you're going to lose this fight because you're already unconstructive. and we have a lot of arguments, Mr. Stein. There's no argument for you, because you're not coming up in the trigger already. You should already convince the public that you are doing everything perfectly, properly and in a similar way. You're not going down, you're already afraid of climbing the trigger, because you don't have any arguments. Your Minister drives on plastic bags to Brussels, although in fact there could also have been a Secretary of State there, although in fact the Prime Minister could say to the Minister: “This is a very important and important issue for Latvian society. And, Minister Puce, you're not going anywhere, you're going to be in the Saeima, and you're going to explain why you have chosen such a solution for one of the blocks of questions, for example, about cities, big cities, why you've chosen, let's say, such a solution for another issue." This is respect for the society that you do not have. You just don't have it. You have no respect for your relatively weaker opponent, who is the opposition. You want to have respect for you, you think that by your power and by some kind of arrogant attitude, you will have respect for society, that your name will have authority and that it will be so eternal. That's not going to happen! You will achieve much more by working constructively, by constructive discussions. And much faster, by the way, would go just if you had a constructive discussion, not like Mayor Staķis, who is sitting in place and showing such gestures. He has never climbed up on municipal issues today to talk about how Riga will cooperate with the nearest municipalities, because he has no opinion. He does not objectively know the subject, because if he knew, he would come and tell and defend, and convince and show the public that he is an excellent mayor. He just has no idea. ( Internouncing call.) And this is an objective reality. I call on you to think about it. In five minutes there will be the next submission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U548	Thank you. The name of the Member, Daniel Pavlut, who will speak "for".
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U549	Good evening, Madam President and colleagues! Now I have to say that hardly at the greatest optimism we could be hoping to prove to the people of Latvia that this sabotage of the Saeima's work that we are currently watching from representatives of the opposition (Minimum: Ooo!) ) is a concern for Latvian society. ( Internouncing call.) On a constructive offer we have submitted a proposal, which will continue working on administrative territorial reform by 22.30, and tomorrow at 10 a.m., allowing sufficient time for rest, to continue working in the interests of Latvian citizens, discussing (Intersorb.) on administrative territorial reform, not on issues related to the conduct of the sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Šmits: “The interests of Latvia must be respected!” ) I call on you to do so and I hope that you will support this constructive proposal. And I'm going to try not to fill with my own person and talk floods for the remaining four minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U550	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the motion by Members to continue the sitting on 5 March until 22.30 a.m., and then to announce the adjournment by 10 a.m. on 6 March! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, against - 28, refrains. Decision adopted. I would like to inform you that I have consulted the Bureau of Legal Affairs. The Saeima has already decided on a precedent in a similar situation. ), that if the majority of the Saeima has decided on time (interim: “Stop lying!” ), when the sitting is adjourned, new such proposals have not been put to the vote by the Saeima. And I was informed by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima that such a precedent had occurred (Interface: “Do not lie!” ) in the course of the budget review. We shall therefore continue the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Do not lie!” ; intermediates: “On the procedure! For the procedure!’ ) Turn on the microphone to Member Gobzem for the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U551	Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, you are chairing the sitting. Please provide in writing as a member of the Bureau and currently as the head of the Saeima sitting, where it is stated in writing that it is not necessary to consider the application of five Members! Where is it set in the Order Circle? And stop, please lie, if. When the budget was examined, the position and the opposition agreed to work until a certain time and stopped making these applications. It was. You should, however, remember a little as it happened that time. The order book of the Saeima provides very precise that the application of five Members must always be examined, and if the contrary is the case, show in writing where... specifically in which rule of order roll it is laid down.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U552	Honourable Members! I inform you of my consultations with the Saeima Legal Bureau. I will continue this consultation. And keep sitting. At the moment, the Saeima has decided. Lies!’ )... I ask for silence and order in the hall! ( The drug is noise. Depp. Gobzem: “We don’t have to keep quiet!” ) We shall continue to examine proposal 16. Please continue the debate. ( A coalition’s applause.) Please, on behalf of the Commission, Arthur Tom Plese.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U553	Hello... Good evening, colleagues. We follow on from the 17th proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņš. This provides for the addition of Article 3 to the new heading ‘Landies’. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U554	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U555	Let us take Sweden as an example. So in Sweden there is a landsting, a region and a communal. In this case, we did not support the proposals made by the Member Kazinovsky some time ago. But if we look at the annex to this reform, let us see that the annex to this reform actually contains, let us say, a return to the old model of districts. In the old districts... The old districts were also composed of various lower forms of government, and with this proposal I am calling for something that has also been said by the National Union, and I have also debated it very much, and I have also debated it in the Commission... develop a lower level of governance. Why is this important? The territorial boundaries currently proposed are territorially uneven and it will be necessary to define in some way how these areas can be managed better. In different ways, in different formats - discussions share opinions. It is my opinion that these rules should already be reflected in this basic law. And now, to the second reading. What the government is constantly doing, the government is simply trying to delay this issue, and the coalition is also trying to do it, and in this way, it is actually clear now that the New Conservative Party has already been deceived without supporting these previous... If Cazinovskis is with you, then you're already deceived. There will be no previous level 2 and with this proposal withdrawal out... and will follow further the proposals of the National Alliance, which they have withdrawn, the National Association will also be deceived. Because there will simply be no governance model at zero level. And here's where colleagues should join. The debate is limited, and it is difficult to tell them much less constructively within a limited period of time, so this debate must also be divided. But if someone is talking about constructive cooperation between the opposition and the position, now this was the place. In fact, this whole draft law has six chapters. Six, no more then. And there was a simple need to agree on each chapter, as seen with clear conviction. Currently, all six chapters have been rejected for a later period, i.e. they will not be implemented, including these. I therefore believe that this proposal needs to be supported, it will lay the foundations and, indeed, will strengthen the rule in law that a lower level of governance must be created. Such large areas cannot be managed successfully. Look at this! Same as mentioned - Līvāni, Rēzekne novads and others.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U556	Mr. Valains, time! I closed the debate. Mr Plies, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U557	Proposal No 17 has been accepted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U558	Please call me! Let us vote on proposal 17. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U559	18. is a proposal tabled by the Member, Mr Valaiņa, and provides for the addition of Article 3 with parish associations. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U560	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U561	Consultations... Okay, colleagues, this proposal... I come back for ( Intersorbent. Noise.) ... In this proposal, I come back to it (Interface: "Successing a person to speak!" )... on the issue of parish associations. And, in my view, this is still an opportunity to make logical... and to establish a logical parish association in this law... The design mechanism. It's already... These mechanisms already exist but are not enshrined in the law. If we want to strengthen the law... to these parish associations also to ask something about which Members love to talk - about these functions that should be said in another law... This basic law, which talks about administrative territorialisation, must also strengthen it in these articles. That is also the point of my proposal, the nature of the case if we are ready... as many politicians have said they are ready to talk about zero-level governance and that it will be incorporated into other laws. Oh, how you don't want to refer, but you have to refer to the President too. The President also agreed that this basic law... not in other laws somewhere, but this basic law must also reflect it... I don't agree with... I do not agree with the President of the State in the sense that it is postponed to transitional provisions. Let me explain why. The 2009 reform was not just a story about transitional provisions. The law with all functions - in this even the law with all functions! - it was determined what levels of government are doing. But since one was launched faster, the other model then, that other model never lived. And at this point, I ask you to think about the fact that it is their newly-created municipalities... The national association, you stood up for it. The municipalities to be created will be those who want this idea if they do not do it immediately. They will be the ones who will strongly oppose, and none of this will happen. There will be very long discussions, and you will not ultimately support this model.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U562	Thank you. Before we continue to discuss the matter, I, as the chair of the sitting, propose a technical break for 15 minutes to consult the Bureau of Legal Affairs on the way forward. Do Members have objections? ( Independence: “There is no objection! None!’ ) None. ( Interface: “There is no objection! ” ) Thank you. The meeting was suspended for 15 minutes so that the Bureau could discuss. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U563	Dear colleagues, We keep sitting after the break. The Saeima Bureau has received a proposal from Members Zarina, Orlova, Stepanenko and others to declare a break to the Saeima at its meeting on 5 March from 20:05 a.m. to 9 a.m. on 12 March. ‘ For”, “to” none of the speakers have applied. ( Milestones.) Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So let's keep sitting. The proposal decision is not supported. We shall continue to examine proposal 18. Sergey Dolgopolov, the next Member, will be in the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U564	Colleagues! We are talking about Article 3, where an administrative territorial division is recorded. From this point of view and from this point of view, Mr Valaiņa's proposal, as well as Mr Kazinovsky's proposal, has a place in this article, precisely in this bill. Because it's not about the management model... is about territorial division and what units could be here. I understand that, while VARAM has not seen it, nor supported it, and therefore the artificial commission that was set up, nor supported it, I would ask the head of the commission to explain the reasons why this proposal was not supported, and not simply to say that, here, in the Commission, it was not supported. At the same time, I would also like to ask: if there was a vote on this proposal - how did the votes split? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U565	Thank you. Next, Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U566	First of all, I would like to apologise to those people of Latvia who continue to follow our sitting for the culture and relations ruling in Parliament. The fact that some Members do not respect other Members who are trying to go into the process and try to explain... No, I am talking about other Members who are standing for me now, well, with my back, let's say that. The proposal. The proposal. We have not yet touched on a very serious topic today. It is about the so-called zero level and, of course, it could be discussed in which section of the law we will touch on this topic. At the moment, the position of the majority of the Commission was to place some things on this subject in the transitional provisions, but I would like to join Mr Valaiņa and Mr Dolgopolova in saying that it is in this section that we could talk about a breakdown which will then allow us to build the zero level initiated by the National Union. Of course, all discussions about how we will choose those people in Latvia who will support our democracy... in places, in the outlyings, in the border to which we could trust that they will really know what those people who live will want, for example, 70 kilometres away from the centre of development of a particular municipality, who will be able to tell us what those people who we are ignoring in some way, combined in the major structures of the municipality, would really want. And so I would ask all Members to try to get into what is going on, to understand what this is about. Once again, perhaps not to pay attention to what we call the parish associations, because the parish associations have not been excluded in this case either. Because people on the ground could also agree that they will bring together representatives to express their wishes. That is really very serious. Please study and support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U567	Thank you. Before continuing the debate, I would like to inform you that Members Paviluts, Strike, Dzintars, Zakaistovs and Latkovsky have submitted a request to the Bureau to continue the meeting on 5 March this year, without interruption, by 21.00, then to declare a break by 10 a.m. on 6 March this year. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “There is no objection! ” ) There is no objection. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Really?” ) Therefore, we will continue until 21.00, with a follow-up session on March 6, at 10 a.m. We are continuing the debate. Mr Janis Dombrava, next to the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U568	Dear Saeima! We have already started a debate on this zero level on the 6th proposal, and I would also call for perhaps, given that many proposals are identically linked, but at the heart of the debate, respectful of all our time, on one proposal, even though some logical legislative process would emerge. With regard to the zero level, I would like to emphasise once again: yes, we have decided it conceptually within the Commission. The National Association has also submitted proposals for municipal electoral law, with specific arrangements for the election of this zero level. And we can also promise to come in April with a concept, more precisely, with amendments to the law “On Municipalities”. In this case, I would really like to emphasise that we believe that it is critically important - at the level of municipalities and cities - for this reform, given that large districts will be created in certain places of Latvia and the possibility for citizens to reach the centre of this municipality in certain cases will be limited, and it is also very important to ensure the representation of these interests, especially in small villages. We will put forward this proposal. And would really call for constructive work to go ahead and do not try to artificially pull time along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U569	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U570	I agree with Mr Valaiņa's proposal. I think that everything is clear. Here is more important information to say. 10 minutes ago we can be Minister Juris Pūce (Interview.) who is responsible for administrative territorial reform, on Twitter, on the social network, put a very important statement that he has the opportunity now, at this moment, to meet with Valdis Dombrovskis. ( Internoint.) Thank you. Thank you very much. He meets Valdis Dombrovskis from New Unity at this moment while people are protesting in Latvia. While people in Latvia are confused about some adjustments to administrative territorial reform, Juris Pūce is meeting with Valdis Dombrovskis very seriously in Brussels. I think that's all I need to know about this thing. And you, Mrs. Strique, stop running once at the polkovnik Jura! If you have something to say, get out of the way! The Polkovnik in Juris Garciems, where you run through the summers, is not the place that Parliament is. If you have something to talk about, come here and tell me! And what I say is... I didn't specifically call a name, I could also name a name. You know very well what Jur I am talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U571	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. I would remind you that we are debating the proposal. Please don't talk to the hall. In the next debate, Mr Armands Krauze. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U572	This proposal 18. In fact, it is linked, yes, indeed, to the second level, and it has to be said that, unfortunately, so far, we did not have the opportunity to debate enough on the second level and it is not now either. And, for example, I would like to see the second level just like... That is, on this proposal as well... by the way, about the parish associations... just like Mr Plese's video on the Saeima's website, I too would like to speak and express my views. Because one thing is, of course, here, the other thing is... We are 100 Members, we must all have equal opportunities. I could speak for five minutes on the 18th proposal, and you would now put it on the first page? I wouldn't put my proposal in place. The second level is very important because it is important for all Latvian citizens. Because it is in this way that citizens can increase their representation and participation in political processes in municipalities. What are we doing? We are moving away from this reform. What do you think: if the centre of the municipality is 70 kilometres from the parish or from the existing centre of the municipality... who was elected... the head of the municipality and the Members... how often will citizens see their own Members in the future? Where will decisions be made? They see it right now. ( Interface: “Where exactly? ” ) And exactly... That is what I would like to express. Why are you talking here about some delay or something? We want to express your opinion with equal opportunities just as you do. And I think that because of such a restriction, which you have introduced to the opposition, it is likely that you could appeal to the Constitutional Court and accuse it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Partner: ‘These restrictions apply equally to all Members!’ ; methacrylics.) Because the Constitution has exactly the same opportunities for us, the opposition as you, the position. Also on the 18th proposal, on the second level... What is the second level? You don't even know what the second level is. You're here... you do not understand at all what you are voting on!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U573	Please continue the debate. Member Didy Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U574	I am very pleased that we read the roll of order of the Saeima and understood that we can torpedo each other endlessly, and yet we are able to agree on a reasonable sitting time this evening and a reasonable resumption of the sitting tomorrow. It's fun from the heart. And I think that if we wanted to deal with this whole issue as well... how to say, unifyingly and understanding each other, we should do one good thing. I'm serious about that. It's not a question of rhetoric. We should change the agenda of the sitting, maybe we can do this tomorrow: move the 70th proposal faster, because the objective debate, the second level, the zero level... Well, when we count together, we're already made up of three levels. There would be a debate that should really be opened. No irony. We are now really talking only about the first level, but there is already a zero level version, there is a second level version. Objectively, we take this issue as a whole, and I do, I do, allow us to agree, as we have just done. When the second level is that... and then is the first level, then let's see if it's still needed. Maybe it's necessary. I'm not saying no. But then we really highlight this issue, because all the rest of us we are now debating until we are there is actually quite an empty debate. Well, in my view, paragraph 70 will be so that we can still break down everything that we debated before. Without resolving this debate, we cannot simply move forward constructively, objectively if. It's really... I hope you understand that this is a constructive call: to move the debate, either, or, I don't know, 70. to pull it here, or this one, to there, but then, ideologically... Let's talk this, let's debate it. And I think we can find common denominators. I really think that if we all take care of the successful progress of Latvia's country, then it could not be that we cannot find it. And we are also able to find a solution for this sitting to end in time today and the next one to start normally, or not. Well, after all, we're all people and we're all like Latvian citizens, all... and since Latvia cares if not. Maybe listen to what I'm saying once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U575	Thank you, Mr. Schmidt. Ms Inga Goldberga, Member of the European Parliament, next to the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U576	Colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that this proposal must probably be considered. Why? Because we will keep the parishes and we will be able to implement what was said by the representatives of the National Union, building links and... community at parish level. But the other is that also optimise and organize their work at this level, if the parishes are small and maybe territories... calls for this work to be optimised. And it's not any fiction and news. In Rezekne municipality such associations are very successful. I opened... The Drican Parish Association, which has its own very serious statute... have been listed... they have their own budget, they answer... They include eight parish administrations, they are responsible for local libraries, cultural houses, gymnastics, and they also have to review educational institutions... organises utilities, cleans and is responsible for roads. Therefore, in fact, if we see a common picture of what municipalities in Latvia are building, what levels are, how representatives are elected, how they represent their citizens, then this proposal should really be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U577	Thank you. The name is Viktor Valaini for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U578	Mr Dombrava, you were right to say that sometime in April... This proposed framework for zero level municipalities will be in place in April. I would like to call attention to the previous proposal. If we had supported it, Latvia would have created 620... 500-620 first level municipalities. It's about the previous one. If we want to introduce elected first-level areas... Well, the zero level areas, let's assume, if there's no possibility of statutoryising these parish associations at once, then it's going to happen that we're going to be very fragmented... this selected item... can't just get to them. That is why this proposal is on the table. Such a system already works; such associations of parishes already form. And now... I don't agree with you here that we need to postpone it later. I believe, however, that it should be already stated in this basic law that they can be created.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U579	Thank you. The name Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U580	All the opposition is currently dealing with is an attempt to eliminate you from illusions about this reform as magic sticks... to reality. What this proposal is about is an attempt to arrange the country as the organisational structure of a large organization so that we can plan immediately, put into law all possible ways in which self-government can be exercised in Latvia. And this is really very important, and without this organisational structure, the zero level will not be possible. And the fact that the parish associations are a very successful and workable structure is already proven in practice. And more. The fact that the zero level is really necessary is also demonstrated by the fact that during the work of the committee, MANY always promises some mystical millions of roads for repair. ( An intermediate call from the NA group: “You’ve already repaired! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U581	Mrs Lochmeles-Lunova, time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U582	For this money, you can repair 800 kilometers of road. It happens that one self-governing...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U583	Mrs Lochmele-Lunova, you have time to... You're speaking for the second time. One minute has passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U584	Thank you. So 20 kilometers per self-government.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U585	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole. Please! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U586	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to draw attention to... which was expressed by the committee responsible at second reading on the proposal in question... and, in a way, in relation to the next - 19. - the proposal put forward by the national association, which would, in a way, set the level of zero. The Law Office also recognised that this specific regulation, solution is in fact not within the scope of this law, it should be dealt with in the Law “On Local Government”. So, you see, we have been debating a case for more than 20 minutes, aware of the opinions of the Legal Bureau, on which we know that it should actually be dealt with in a completely different law. And, my fellow Members, yes, I am not from those Members who are not talking about concrete proposals, but I would simply like to draw your attention. Everyone says we've worked a long time. Mathematical, numerically we have worked seven and a half hours today. We haven't even worked... which is a set full working time in Latvia, let's assume from nine to five - eight hours, we haven't even worked it, but we are already tired and can't work anymore. We've spent more time in pauses than we do. And here, too, I would like to oppose those objections that, obviously, there is no opposition... position to speak and defend. You see, from now on... Of the 18 proposals, six were positional proposals. Most of Mr. Kazinovsky, who has been on the ladder and defended. As a Member, I have no obligation to climb and try to oppose the proposal presented by the opposition. I am listening to you, you are expressing your position, the rapporteur has expressed his reasoning, and I am voting in favour. ( Milestones.) So I also call for such constructive work to be done rather than talking about the candidate or real estate of one Member. If you talk about it constructively, then do it in your works as well. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U587	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U588	Indeed, in the course of the work of the Reform Commission, these two very important issues, but also very much to be discussed, were both about the parish associations, the so-called possible zero level, and about the administrative regions... regional level. In fact, at the moment, we understood more or less together what could be, what could not be. I am optimistic, I hope that for the third reading all these speeches and proposals of the Commission... go... Let's say, third... the third reading will be collected and specified and it is possible that both the parish associations and the administrative regions in this Article 3 will nevertheless be reflected as administrative territorial units. I will also support such associations... Now... or Mr Valaiņš or Mr “Fatherland and Freedom”... Proposals by the National Alliance In this form, I find it difficult to say, but for the third reading, it must be for associations and administrative regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U589	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U590	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Honourable Members! I think I understand that this proposal will not be supported today, but nevertheless I suggest that you think about it for the next sitting, because this model is already working and working very well, believe me. And also what a fellow Member, Cazinovskis,... Understand that his proposals have not been taken somewhere from the air. And I am not convinced either that one part that has not really understood what is going on in municipalities and what life is going on there simply expresses its attitude with a vote. I think you should still listen to people who have led the municipality for 20-30 years... They really know. We are a small country, but we can make soap very quickly. And I therefore hope that perhaps for the next reading those proposals will be debated again in the parties or in the political groups. And we must not reject a proposal that is already working and working very well. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U591	Thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U592	Mr. Cole! Firstly, no proposal is for this reform to be carried out. All the proposals are about improving your show. Number one. Number two. You should read the Constitution. The Constitution does not state that there is such a position and opposition at all. I invite you to read this document. It says that every Member must vote with conscience, not as cards raise up before you by Raivis Dzintars. ( Internouncing call.) And the last thing I want to say. Mr. Cole, get down from your heights a little bit! You will not sit down, nor judge what others will come here to speak, as such a great ruler, you are a servant to the people. (Applause) You are a servant and you must make the best proposals. How many proposals have you defended today? No one! The only thing you are defending is a symbol of this reform, which is the House of Dombrava in Saulkrasti. Thank you. (Laughter) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U593	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time. Please! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U594	In principle, I have a little rehearsal for Richard Cole. I agree that it would be right if we were to talk about everything constructively. And yes, private issues should not be raised at the Saeima sitting, which I fully agree with. But about that section of the reasoning. I will give just one example. I think that at least one question we have voted today, as we did not intend to vote, because we have argued for the large cities of the Republic, Mr Kirštein in particular. He came here, defended the opinion. I saw that the Chamber had voted differently, I also thought it was a minor issue, I decided to support, a logical proposal. And that only seems normal to me. No, just, Richard, if you... You and anyone who voted that Rezekne is bigger than Jelgava (Laughter) ... But it would be normal for you to come and tell me how you see it. (Laughter) Well... Not for personal things, but in what way Jelgava becomes smaller than Rezekne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U595	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr. Plies, do you want something on behalf of the commission? Please! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U596	Yeah. As regards the municipalities' associations, I would like to point out that the draft law, which was also submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (and was supported by the Commission), provides for the possibility for the municipalities' councils to form parish associations consisting of the municipalities of the municipality or the municipalities of the municipality and the city. So that's done in the bill. But 18. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U597	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the vote by Mr Valaiņa - 18. - a proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -11, for -54, for -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U598	19. is a proposal of the National Association, which intends to supplement the draft law with the cities of the county and the counties of the county. We also discussed this in the Commission and it was not supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U599	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! ( Internouncing call.) Please get the result! For - 10, for - 48, for - 7. The proposal is not supported. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U600	The 20th proposal, tabled by Mr Valaiņa, provides for the formulation and identification in Article 3 of the draft law of administrative areas consisting of counties, cities and regions of the Republic. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U601	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U602	Colleagues! We keep talking about forms of government. And in this case, there is a county, and this proposal is in the wording of the current law. At present, such a model has already been proposed in the law. Question: "Why VARAM, by offering the new model, gave up this offer, which was already statutory... Is that so? And that is also in some way the answer to Mr Cole. These breakdowns were already allocated to the basic law. If we do not go down, this, in my opinion, is such a more successful offer of how to shape second-level forms of governance - counties. The only difference is... See, the city and the municipality of the Republic is a municipality of the same level; they are not municipalities of two levels. A poem through this proposal would be that level above. It would not be a form of governance at regional level, it would probably... determine it either around the cities of the republic, or no matter how the commission will agree. But it would already mark some kind of formation. It came to this proposal at the time... It was already... I don't know which Saeima, 2009... That's what it was. But they're the result of some kind of discussion... As a result of the studies, this is the best option. I would like to remind everyone that there have been several researchers in this commission - the Bank of Latvia, whose documents... and it was a discussion document, not a study... as well as “Jaun’s farm”. In the Commission, I did not see John’s Seed, even though all the time they referred to John’s Seed that in this way they studied everything there, organized it. We didn't see them. It was just VARAM. But with regard to the counties, there have been researchers... and that commission did not listen to any researchers in all 80 famous hours. Essentially talk about management models with researchers... invite some researchers who are experts in Latvia... In Latvia, there's some kind of... How long? Some five experts who are truly specialised in municipalities and able to talk about these models. There was simply no discussion about the level 2 municipalities at the Saeima Commission when we decided on these issues. Experts, fact-based discussions... I just didn't have a commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U603	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U604	I would like to appeal to Members of the Group. You come here from time to time and you say that the proposal should be supported, as it should be voted in favour. When are you going to do that? The third reading? (Applause) You're going to do that when? Something happened to you with your voting machines? Mrs Goldberg, you also came up with two proposals: this one should be supported. When will you vote in favour? Some fourth reading is planned for you, or when? Don't you work there? (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U605	In the next debate, Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please! ( Interface: ‘ Vote also! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U606	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that the second level municipalities... they are mature from their own life. For example, we have all been elected from five areas. Everyone knows where, let's say, Latgale city Rēzekne, where Kurzeme city is located Liepaja. Historical areas, historical districts, historical districts. They may be called counties. Okay! Then there are also planning regions. The planning regions also correspond to these five historic areas or districts. Latvia needs two levels of municipality, because the same size... In Denmark, an area of about 45,000 miles [45,000 km], there are five large regions and about 90 small municipalities. And so I think that Latvia also needs to come to this Scandinavian model, which our government is talking about a lot. I therefore call for support for the Valaiņa proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U607	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U608	Dear colleagues, Naturally, this proposal is, in principle, Mr Kazinovsky's proposal, because he also determines (Interdependence.) ... Can I continue? ( The ring of noise.) Can I continue?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U609	Colleagues, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U610	I would like to keep the time involved... within the time allowed. Because this is the second level. As regards the voting model... car. It has to be said that it is not about the proposal that we are on the table. ... against the proposal as such or against the proposal as such. The authors of a number of proposals stress that these proposals have not been fully developed. Talking about the second level. In this case, we are talking about an administrative territorial division. The idea is supported as an idea conceptually. If we are talking about the norms of the law, here must be a map where, like the borders of the regions, there should be boundaries of the area, so I say once again: supporting it conceptually, we can not always support their wording in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U611	Thank you. Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U612	At first reading, we supported the draft reform and hoped that, for the second reading, all the answers to the questions would be arranged and, in general, we will see the levels of municipalities, how they would work, the functions, the election of representatives. No answer has been given. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) We still hope that until the third reading, the draft law will be organised and these levels will also be... clear, understandable and able to vote. And unlike many Members, I have been in almost every meeting of the Commission and tried to find answers. I'm not... Responses... has found, and therefore, I cannot force my colleagues to vote in favour of the unprepared proposals. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U613	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U614	Dear President, Honourable Members! Mr Valaiņš' proposal, or what he said, is that there is a certain rational grain. But I also agree that this project will be clarified in any way for the third reading. Why? I'll be right there. If there are 15 counties and some 65 parishes in Estonia, they do not have another level, because this county is already the second level. And we have now come out between the first and second levels. And how is this surrogate? If we have Daugavpils region with 80... or how many inhabitants or, for example, the Jelgava region with 88... (we don't yet know how to end), it's already the second level. At the same time, what Victor also said: parish associations... As such, there already exist in Latvia, for example, in Rēzekne district, and they will be there. But that, Viktor, what you're saying, doesn't have to be written in this law... territorial reforms... It is a municipal law, and there is no need to want anything. No law forbids priests, like three or five, or... or eight, how many were there? I don't remember... Rezekne... establish an association of these municipalities. But for us, that's what it's like... And why am I saying we're halfway through? That we have, for example, some regions, which are also intended here. It is actually smaller than the rural municipality of Latvia, and it could be called a parish association... who goes to some major county. I mean, what do I mean? That for the third reading this number should be reduced. And remember that on the map drawn up in Toura, which was in 2019... even before August, if, there were 29... marked 29 regions, which, in my opinion, was too much. Because, as I said, if we have the second level, let's say, the necessary national gymnasiums that we have as much? - 28 or how much and four criteria will remain 24. Then we have that second level already where there are these 80s, as I said, thousands, but not where there are some 15 or 10... or less. And so I think that Mr Kazinovsky's proposal if we're talking... So we can talk about the third reading of these, we call it what we want - during the war they called the commissioners... Liepaja, Jelgava, Ventspils. Now we can call them regions, no matter how. Five six, something where there really is something. But here they have lost meaning. You don't need it anymore. Because what was my idea? The regions are called counties, make big ones, and they'd be like a second... and the first level would have been parishes with those combinations of parishes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U615	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U616	Firstly, I would like to point out to Mr Kola that the Saeima's debate forms the legal context of any law. That is why the debate in the Saeima is very important. Second. I could please colleagues who did not really go into this draft law. Apart from the three levels that we are talking about today - the zero level, the first and the second levels - there will be another, because the Ministry of Culture is currently preparing another draft law on cultural-historical regions, even after the task of the National Union and the support of our commission. And I'm afraid that soon we'll all need an internet-based program where you can combine several cards at the same time. You know what? Because in one map we will have 40 municipalities, in the other map we will have administrative regions whose boundaries have not yet been established, and another map that will determine where in Latvia there will be borders of cultural and historical regions. And nothing has yet been discussed about how many cultural and historical regions will be there and where this fourth map will have a place for Suiti territories, for Selija, where there will finally be a Latgale border, because the fate of the Varakļāni has not yet been decided and only will be decided. Since there are indeed more than answers to questions here, as Mrs Goldberg pointed out, it is SAID to act responsibly today, without voting in favour of the chaos for which the second reading of this law has turned into.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U617	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U618	Mr. Kirstein, you must have been here since that 1998 term, right? From that collective reason, from the time that passed the law establishing the county. I think you were here then. That's the last sentence you said that your view was that there were big counties and the parishes at the bottom... I sign completely, and I think that's... Once again, my call to return to these issues. I understood it now, and I support it unequivocally. But the day goes to the end, and I felt the need to get up on the platform and approach colleagues from SAVE... I understand, you... I don't know if it's a strategy or a tactic. And I understand your arguments that it is better not to participate in this, but you also understand very well that your voices could be separated today a few times, as you say, by the turn. It was, and I don't say anything, for God's sake, be clear to me, but as I say, I call you... Now I understand it's interesting to see how the aggressive part of the coalition is breaking up and with the hammer demotalizing Latvia. And the worse the better, because then something will have to be raised again, but I don't think it's the right tactic. I would never be able to participate in tactics to demolish my country in order to be worse, and then build something again. I am calling very much, but it is such a friendly call to change the tactic... and especially in circumstances where your voice can tell you that we are not doing any kind of stupidity on a hard drive, as you say, because of the virus that was introduced already in the first proposal this morning. And yes, that was my call... But I'm the sentence of Mr. Kirštein... I remember that. And that's where we have to come back, that's right. The big counties. And then, as small municipalities are in this county, it is really an important, but secondary, question. And then we could debate whether the second level is elected or partly elected... I mean... from the bottom of the municipalities. In Poland, for example, there is the principle of cooperation that the second level is both elected and a representative of the state - the Prefect. And they work together, they work together to draw up their own vosevodist development plan. It is not for them to have normal roads today. As the Poles themselves said when we were on a visit to the Commission for Sustainable Development: thank God, we had wise ancestors capable of establishing 30 years back such a state government with which Poland has reached where it is today. So I... ( Internouncing call.) Fantastic, but at the end of the day I have a positive feeling about this whole process.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U619	Thank you. Name to Member Valainius for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U620	This specific proposal has already passed through three readings in the previous Saeima, and it is a concept that the Saeima once agreed on. And the Saeima once agreed on the second level. And the mistake was that the second level was not created. And this law was not brought into existence, but was not brought into existence precisely because these questions were done. And I call again - let us do, let us not make this mistake again. And, Mr Kirštein, that is my answer to you for those parish associations. I allow it: if such a proposal is not strengthened here, then it will be difficult to introduce all electoral associations. We can come to a very fragmented, very diverse number of elected associations, which, unfortunately, could lack the vote in the Saeima, because I remember what happened in the Commission when we started to discuss this issue, I heard these figures. That's why it's also the parish society... I think it would be important for it to appear here.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U621	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U622	Highly honourable colleagues who ask questions why we do not take part in a number of votes! You know, taking part means showing that we take it seriously. So why should we take it seriously? They're talking about you cutting the card... of which will there be some stronger regions, some economic development? We should take this seriously? Here, in principle, it is obvious to everyone that everything that is going on is reform because of reform, so that one political power can actively record for itself the fact that they have reformed against the great resistance... for others it is simply an elementary political revenge for green farmers, and that is it. The last time I looked at ratings when... CPV LV, BIP after... as I said, in less than three years' time, you will not be. There will be. And then they shall amend this law, and it shall be Jelgava the same, and it shall become again a great city, or a very great city. And then it's absolutely everything. So, what do I need? What do I take seriously? What's that... is it not the city of the republic or the big city? From how you write in the law, what is... That Jelgava... that, for example, Rezekne is a big city and Jurmala is a big city, but Jelgava, which is twice as big as Rezekne and more than Jurmala, is not a big city, you... by yourself, by yourself, do something that people laugh about. That is absolutely everything. You're... I mean, you've been through this room with a clumsiness... teach people. Some promised to liquidate OIC, others held with “3 × 500” and so on. And that's it. And you're gonna disappear from here. And that's all, colleagues! ( Internouncing call.) I want you to have a good fun for the remaining couple of years! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U623	In the next debate, Mr Aldis Gobzems. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U624	Do you know: is the term ‘cakistocracy’? Kakistocracy. Remember this term! It is a term that means a state system in which the worst and the lowest people are in power. The worst and the lowest people in power are in the country's facility called kakistocracy. People who lie to voters who violate the law, who corrupt, who fail to keep promises, who are concerned about the interests of society, who are increasing their own funding and condemning the medical profession... ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) Where is the head of the Legal Commission, who does so all the time as talking and going into such a serious problem? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. A. Neighbours: “What can you embarrass? Talk about the thing! You have nothing else to say!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U625	Colleagues, please debate the proposal! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U626	The best of kakistocracy... The best example of the kakistocracy in this Parliament is Member Kaimiņš. Member Neighbour is everything that fits into the term... in power... are the worst and lowest people in society. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Do you want to talk to me?” ) And what I would like to say about the reform. This reform must only be one condition: if you prevent its fundamental errors. If you do not prevent them, then my dear society, dear Latvian society, I call on you to bring these caticooks to the forefront of the village, to draw the village from this parliament forever. It is precisely for the reason that it is unrespectful for Members not to listen to public opinion. Do not keep your promises, Neighbouring, as you have done, is disrespectful to the Member! Let corruption, as you have done, in my opinion, be disrespectful! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Do not spend time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U627	Time. In the next debate, Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U628	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! Administratively, territorial reform was one of the main tasks of building stronger, stronger socio-economic units. The question is: will this happen and will it be possible to achieve this with the current ATR offer? I guess not. And two considerations why it is immediately obvious that the objective will not be achieved. One. What's the plan with the population... reduction in regions? VARAM itself reports in its estimates that after the reform, the population in the regions will decrease significantly in the next 20 years. And the second factor. We have a very large number of donor territories, a given municipality, which receive funds from the Financial Equalisation Fund. Will anything change after reform? Will anything change after reform? Will any of the areas currently being awarded be no longer? The answer is no! The answer is no! And this is an opportunity to support... supporting the proposals - both this and others for the creation of a second level municipal administration form - to set up such larger, stronger economic and management units that could jointly implement infrastructure development projects that could also jointly plan business support projects and services that could jointly plan an education network. And in this way, perhaps it would be possible to create the conditions for economic growth and for a better socio-economic life in the regions. So I am calling for this proposal to be supported, with all the details being specified at third reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U629	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U630	The substance of this proposal does not differ in principle, as Article 3 of that law is still in question. Here again all levels have been named, but only that regional level has been designated as “circles”. This may have caused one other Member to be very confused, because earlier the word for the “circle” was mentioned... that could be named regions. But the counties... Well, Mr. Kirstein may be clear... counties - these are the same regions, regional level... In the present case, aid should in principle be granted. But, yesterday at the President of Latvia... He also believes that there should be this regional level, but once again he wants to call these regions a "land". I don't know what the final name for the regions will be. But I think the lands or districts or regions will be. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U631	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U632	Parliamentary debates on draft laws are extremely important. But today we are talking about a specific proposal. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) We are talking about a specific proposal. The disorders are very different. Mr. Kirštein means 29 counties. Mr Kazinovsky's idea, which is welcome, is the development of planning regions as a second level. We are therefore talking about the concept, but not about the rule of law. That is why, in this case, it can be clarified to the third reading or it cannot be clarified - this is the subject of a separate debate. But in this case, I can tell Mrs. Liepiņa: the same thing again. We cannot vote in favour of the concept when discussing the draft law on specific rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U633	Thank you. Name to Member Armand Kraus. Please! I closed the debate. Mr Plies, on behalf of the Commission, do you want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U634	The 20th proposal by Viktors Valainis was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U635	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Viktor Valain's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U636	Thank you. The 21st proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņš also provides for the expression of administrative territories in three different ways, like the second... as proposal 20, but in a slightly different way. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U637	Mr. Valaiņš, there are two minutes to the parliamentary break. Will you have enough of them? ( Internouncing call.) Mr. Valaiņš can't fit into two minutes. So, colleagues, it is time for a break. Please check-in mode! Name of member of the Saeima, Maria Golubeva, to read the results as soon as they are ready.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U638	Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Inese Ikstena, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Ieva Krapāne, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Ināra Mūrniece, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2044-U639	Thank you. Cancel by 10 a.m. on March 6. ( Interruption)
