ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. The Saeima Bureau has announced an extraordinary meeting with an agenda containing the draft decision on the announcement of the emergency situation. This draft decision is currently available to all Members of the Saeima in both electronic and paper form. Name: Juris Rancāns, Chairman of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption in its meeting this morning discussed the Cabinet Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’ from 13 March to 14 April this year. After hearing the reports of the institutions, the panel shall declare the order justified, appropriate and necessary. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the above-mentioned order of the Cabinet of Ministers and to support the draft decision drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U3	Thank you. The name of Member Valeria Ageshin in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U4	Good morning, dear colleagues! The current situation in the world and in Europe is changing rapidly and the list of areas affected by Covid-19 infection has been extended. In order to combat the spread of the epidemic effectively, it is necessary to inform all citizens about appropriate action in good time. All countries of the European Union (Sitting Head knocks down with a hammer.) Information material for citizens is prepared and distributed, including in Latvia. In several countries, this information is distributed not only in their official language, but also in the languages of the largest minorities, as well as those of the European Union. For example, in Estonia, this information is distributed in three languages: Estonian, English and Russian. In Latvia, however, this information is distributed mainly in the state language. I would like to remind you that the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 15 February 2005 No. 130 “Regulations on the use of languages in information” requires state administrations to use a foreign language in addition to the state language when the information relates to epidemics or dangerous diseases. Ignoring other languages in the current situation threatens the health of all Latvian citizens. This is our consistent position, given that Latvian citizens and residents use different languages, as well as a large number of foreign people live in Latvia, especially in Riga. We suggest immediately to ensure the dissemination of information about Covid-19 risks in public space not only in the state language, but also (Interface.) ... Listen and listen! But also in the territory of Latvia is widely used in English and Russian. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Appendix: ‘... information in three languages!’ ) Saeima (Interdependence.) ... Listen carefully and to the end! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) And please don't get in here! On behalf of Members of the Parliamentary Group, yesterday, on 12 March, a letter was sent to the Minister of Health Viņķele and I invite the Ministry of Health to respect all residents of Latvia and to comply with regulatory enactments. There is also, of course, an example of good communication, as today the CSDD distributed a government statement on the announcement of an emergency situation in three languages. This is a step in the right direction. I call on the Ministry of Health to do the same and to comply with the laws and regulations. These laws and regulations and those of the MK shall be in force. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U5	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U6	Good morning, colleagues! I really... Madam President, Minister, I fully support this draft decision and I would just like to draw attention to it... I was already called by business today morning and marked a problem, for example, with... Training in all educational institutions has now been abolished. These educational establishments include school-eating staff. In principle, catering business has been paralyzed throughout this period, and at the moment they do not have any information or recommendation on how to act, what decisions to take, and there is such an end... a condition where it does not really know what to do. My call would be all in this respect, in relation to all these measures introduced, also for the Ministry of Economics to develop some clear communication channel directly with economic operators to help them explain... and is also closely connected to the Ministry of Health... what decisions should be taken at present, what a recommendation should be, how to act, whether employees should now be released from their obligations, because no one has been released. And I would only call for coordinated action. This is one case where real entrepreneurs who employ a lot of people in their field... Entrepreneurship is now de facto suspended in principle. In such cases, there is a primary need for clarification from the relevant institutions, a recommendation on how to act, as it is now a section that is obviously lacking. I call on the Head of Government and the Ministry of Health to pay attention to this, the Ministry of Economics to be more involved in this issue, because there are, of course, many calls about which decisions to take. At the moment, this situation, which was presented to me in the morning... then I understand that entrepreneurs have really serious reflections, questions of how to ensure entrepreneurship so that it can be successfully continued after the state of emergency has ended. I call on the ministries to focus specifically on the explanatory part that is needed at the moment, how to act better. That's obviously missing right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U7	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U8	Dear colleagues, I think it is clear to us all today that this declaration of an emergency situation shows that the Saeima should also change something in its work. And we have decided, in discussions with colleagues in the opposition, to ask for a change to the Saeima agenda and we hope that we will be able to agree with the coalition that we are putting aside all the laws that are not relevant at the moment, but that we convene extraordinary meetings of the Commission, we call on ministers who can come and decide together how we can deal with this situation, how we can save sectors, how we can save people and what the Saeima must do by actively participating in this process. Because I think we all need to get involved right now. You didn't want to listen to our proposals yesterday. You rejected our request yesterday - to examine our proposals at an extraordinary sitting. Your emergency offer is, of course, also very topical and necessary. But we want to emphasise that, given this situation, it is likely that this order of the Cabinet of Ministers will have to be amended several times, given that the situation is changing almost every hour, and therefore we also ask to take into account what may need to be amended. I therefore want to read only a few things to you from our proposals that will perhaps be taken into account today or tomorrow. Among other things, honourable colleagues, we not only need to limit public measures to 200 people, but almost like Estonia and Lithuania, where public measures are limited to 100 people, our proposal was to ban all public measures at the moment. I don't understand why you provided this number to up to 200 people? This motivation is not understandable. In addition, we ask that the payment of sickness sheets be made on the first day of sickness to all those whose children are forced to stay at home. All those people who have been in contact with people who have returned from the Covid-19 areas precisely in order to limit the number of contacts, not just tell the Twitter that you need to wash your hands and not to welcome, but you need to actively do it to protect our medical staff from the power of the collapse they... can be followed, because we see what is happening in Italy at the moment. We also want such a point to be included - to decide on cooperation with Latvian manufacturers of medicinal products, personal protective equipment and disinfectants and to ensure procurement within the framework of this situation... and to provide for stocks of those funds for a period of at least six months of intensive use, as well as ensuring that the public medicinal product eligible for reimbursement is available to people for a period of at least six months of intensive use. It would also call for consideration to be given to the possibility of not imposing penalties on economic operators operating in the affected sectors... and credit institutions... and other persons in the contractual relationship. We also invite legal and natural persons working in cooperation with the State Revenue Service to ensure tax holidays in affected sectors, including by abolishing penalty and late payment calculations. We also invite, in cooperation with commercial banks licensed in the territory of Latvia, to provide the necessary liquidity for the companies operating in the affected sectors and, of course, to identify the list of all their companies and also the natural persons. We also call... As a result of the unpredictable pressure on health care, social budgets, as well as the home affairs system budget, it is necessary to decide, in cooperation with other ministries, on the reallocation of funds by transferring... reviewing the non-priority expenses of the Ministry and booking the funds to the extent necessary to carry out the above-mentioned duties. We also invite the state administration and local authorities to decide to abolish all missions of employees and, as far as possible, to carry out their duties from home, especially calling for them! - to protect women who are pregnant and women who are breast-feeding up to one year of age... for all economic operators as well. Ladies and gentlemen, my time is coming to an end, but I really ask you to familiarize yourself with our proposals yesterday and, when deciding on amendments... in the emergency... You'll probably do it... take these recommendations into account as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U9	First name to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U10	Hello, colleagues! Thank you to the Saeima for its genuine interest and engagement, because in fact, the proposals that Mrs Stepanenko listed - part of which is already under way - and part of which is the emergency algorithm introduced yesterday. With smart news, crisis management is built through executive power, because executive response is more operational, instruments are available immediately, and the fundamental principle of crisis is unity, which can in fact only be ensured by the Prime Minister. We have now acted very professionally. This is reflected in our indicators: the number of infections is still low and their detection system is functioning well enough. We are still in the first phase of the epidemiological scenario, where we can track the infected, map the contacts accurately and determine the quarantine required. When it comes to emergency planning... Thus, the directions of action. The biggest effect of closing schools, according to the epidemiologists, is not so much because children are not infected, but because this is a large, immediate intervention in massive daily flows of people: parents do not lead their children to school anymore. The number of contacts is reduced immediately. Answering Stepanenko... or Mr. Valains, who of them... Mrs Stepanenko or Mr Valaiņš mentioned why there are 200 restrictions on people. Also, the arsenal of epidemiological safety measures, which is not a choice, is not a divination of coffee thicknesses. We strictly follow the recommendations of the world's best epidemiologists and Infectologists. The limitation of the number of people is directly linked to the state's ability to carry out the necessary investigations. In Latvia, at the same time, so within one day, we are able to test in a reference laboratory... carry out 400 tests, i.e. a gathering of 200 people, where this virus does not spread explosively. It is with a rather slow pace of development. Our testing capacities are sufficient, so there is this 200 limit. Speaking of the safest prevention of virus spread. No matter what I want to ironize about recordings on a Twitter for handwashing, I would urge you not to stop now in the position of an easily offended child who always drips the government, saying what is not being done enough, but to give up his political kin on the Twitter for a quarantine period. And you too, Mrs Stepanenko, warmly call on me to use my tweet and feisbuck resources directly for public hygiene (Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “I’m already using it!” ), for the enhancement of epidemiological hygiene - hand washing, social contact, preferably at a distance of two metres. That is, changing your shopping habits. As it is recognised by epidemiologists as the most effective method of stopping the virus. It pays nothing but the ability to read and perceive scientific texts and to help its constituents in their own language. I therefore assure you that the situation is now under control. Promising the emergency situation helps the government to respond more quickly. Questions about support for entrepreneurs who go beyond the competence of my ministry are being looked at in the government: all that has been mentioned... tax holidays, social budget... This means that the sick sheets are covered in order to ease the burden on employers, all this is done. I will briefly touch on the preparedness of the healthcare system. I came to you right from the middle of the regular Icrit meeting, where we planned with hospital management how we changed reception procedures in the hospital, namely by reducing the planned assistance already available to patients who would need to improve the quality of life by asking for awareness and postponing them later, so that we could be prepared in the case of unloaded beds if we really become more people with heavy pneumonias and complications that have been infected with the coronavirus. So please understand. Please understand that this theme, namely the epidemic, pandemic and unknown spread of the virus, is the situation described by Kipling in the Jungle Book as a major drought in which all of his divers are put to a later stage and agree on joint action to help protect our society from uncontrolled spread of the virus. And one little political flag even in the end. Listening to the Latvian Radio today morning and the news that was already yesterday, it seems totally unacceptable to me that we are using an outbreak of the coronavirus as an attempt to delay several reforms expected in the Republic of Latvia for decades. I call you (Interior: ‘Go sit! ’) ) do not use demagogy and call for it, however (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) not delay the necessary reforms that need to be completed to the end. And I would like to say one more thing. : Coronavirus, of course, affects the human immune system... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Remember what Kipling said!” (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U11	(The driver of the sitting shall be knocked down with a hammer.) Colleagues, let's continue the debate!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U12	... but outside the Saeima, it has not been observed that it robs people of common sense. I call all of them to this too. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Go home and set down your mandate. ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U13	Thank you to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis. We are continuing the debate. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U14	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I really think this is the time when we should put off the opposition, the position, all the political colours. And if we share something, it's rather within the competences of who's in this room. What is more a doctor, what is more an entrepreneur, each has an area in which he understands more. Personally, I am a complete impotent to understand how to stop the epidemic, and I do not know anything about treatment processes. I can only count on people who know it in the Chamber and on those who actually currently run this section in crisis management. It's our doctor society. In fact, both for us as Parliament and for the government in this section... they actually work under the responsibility of these people, if they could say so. Their main task is to ensure what is needed to reduce this epidemic and to combat its consequences. And I'm not going to comment there. The thing in which I understand something... It's... there is, for example, communication. And again it's not in any way a reproach, but a suggestion not to hide anything. Society can calm down by telling everything exactly what it is. I'm not saying you're hiding right now. I just call on you not to imagine what to do. That is, if we lack analytical capacity in Gulbja or other laboratories, tell them. Tell us what order of priority... In other words, tell everything exactly as it is. And only this can soothe society, not some sort of superhumans. But there is one thing in which I really feel competent and perhaps even with a unique experience, namely the economic aspect of the crisis. Because I led the Latvian Fishermen's Union and the leader is still. Not when there were serious economic problems in this sector several times... and that is to say, the main and last one was when the Russian market was closed one morning, when it accounted for about 60 per cent of turnover for 20 companies. There was a question: the industry to be or not... overall for the whole sector? It was clear that we would not all be saved, and that is what we are seeing today. Of some 20 companies, seven currently work effectively and productively in the sector. But we saved the cornerstone. And I want to congratulate the parliament at that time... Parliament of the time, which adopted the necessary laws within one day in two readings. Indeed, I didn't even expect such a quick action. And what was important here? What was very important here and what is important now? All those companies affected... primary, first, thing? That's how the banks will react? Will banks stop credit lines? Fuck everybody they have? Will it be reasonable? At that time, we called... We went through all our companies... all the banks where someone had a credit line... With the help of the Ministry of Agriculture and Economics, all bank management was convened the same day in the same room, and the banks said very clearly what they needed. They were ready to be very flexible, but provided they see that the State shows similar flexibility in the sense that the State Revenue Service does not come after everything that can come, but gives credit holidays in the sense that it does everything for companies to exist. I didn't hear... But I heard you tell me that Mrs. Jaunzemes had something similar in communication today. If that's the case, the hat's off! That's right! But we need to look even wider. And what is important? It is not just that we all feel that there are clear primary sectors. It's transport, it's tourism and so on. But that question can be much wider. Even the companies today whose production is demanded in the world and perhaps even the demand is rising can get into situations... in situations of difficulty. In other words, if their raw material is no longer available, it may be difficult for them to do so. I call for a broader view, not just of what is obvious now. What is obvious now? It's airBaltic. And airBaltic must be saved, that is clear. Of course, it is wise to do so, it is not necessary to throw in an immeasurable amount of money here. It must be kept in a phase when, at the end of all this, momentarily... return to the market and perhaps be ahead of others. This must be done, but above all, keep your eyes wide open, and here, too, I am addressing the industries through this platform. No one else than industry, business organisations affected will bring the best solution plan. It was in the fishing industry, it was elsewhere, it was also in trees... during the crisis. It is the industry that can bring... we must be open, the industry also has a huge responsibility... not to demand that everyone be saved, including those who have been outrageous so far, but those who really make up businesses and industries in a structural state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U15	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U16	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! I will start by saying a great deal of thanks to those people who really risk their own health, who are working the most of us on the front line, and they are healthcare professionals. These are people who really manage the crisis, those are infectologists, epidemiologists, hospital people, family doctors and others. Thank you very much, because they are the ones who protect us, the rest of us. As regards the health aspects and the way this crisis is managed, I do not want to add much. I really don't want to pretend to be a specialist, although it is clear that we all are interested in these issues today and in the last weeks more probably than ever in our lives, because nothing like the Covid-19 epidemic... And a pandemic globally... We probably have not experienced most of our lives. In fact, it is in some way a state of war in Latvia and worldwide in the field of health. I believe that the steps taken by the government so far are adequate, are clearly visible when we look at events in different countries around the world, where different governments react at different speeds, with different degrees of decisiveness, to strike a balance between the rushing steps that help prevent the spread of the virus, and, let us say, the inadequate steps, caused by panic or by political pressure, which have an excessive impact on society and the economy. It seems to me that the Latvian Government is now acting in full compliance. And I support both this emergency situation and the decisions taken by others. It should be mentioned right away that the situation is really changing rapidly, as Mrs Stepanenko has already said, and it is likely that in the coming days and weeks the government will have to take a number of other decisions as well, and it will probably still have to assess the various other measures of social distance and take many other necessary decisions. I am counting on the government to do so. Today I would like to emphasise what was also included in the proposal of the opposition Members yesterday, and I would like to emphasise that I personally... My intention, without supporting further discussions on this issue at that point yesterday, was based on the fact that the members of the government, the crisis management board, together with the epidemiologists and other industry representatives, were sitting and discussing the same issues. I thought it was not worth asking the government to do it and to imagine that we were doing something while the government was doing it. That was my reason. At the same time, thank you for this commitment and the proposals. There are a number of proposals that will need to be seen further in the government in the coming days. And in particular, I would like to highlight the block that was perhaps not so clearly visible in the decisions of the government yesterday, and this is precisely about supporting the Latvian economy. We must take great care not to catch the virus from Latvia's economy as well as from the world's economy. And here's a number of things we can do. Firstly, we must, of course, provide resources for health care. Perhaps we will have to ask the European Commission for authorisation, harmonisation to increase the budget deficit and to inject additional funds into the system. The Minister for Health will know best who needs these funds. But while taking care of companies, as did Didžis Šmits' speech here, there are a number of sectors that already face various shocks – both labour shortages and drop in demand, various difficulties in supply chains and so on. And the first thing that hits them will be the cash flow problems. We must help through Altum's various types of guarantees, through the tax support mechanisms administered by the SRS, through tax holidays. We're gonna have to talk to the banks. That's right. I know that Latvijas Banka has planned to talk to the management of other banks about how to treat companies in this situation in a understandable way. We will have to talk about how to help individuals, what to do with the financing of disability sheets and so on, and so on. Colleagues! I call on everyone to work together to tackle this crisis in a targeted way and, among other things, to sit at one table with the opposition. Thank you for this proposal, I am ready.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U17	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U18	Colleagues, just as Mr Pavluta said, it was a constructive proposal for the government to come yesterday with those proposals that we would have considered together yesterday. It was also a little surprised, therefore, that yesterday's commission meeting was not held operationally. And yesterday, when all ministers, most of the Cabinet of Ministers were on the ground and were able to answer questions and tell about the level of preparation, we did not decide on it yesterday. But that... What I would like to add from our proposals, which I was also unable to add during the previous speech, is that we certainly - certainly! - have to think about it. Of course, closing borders at the moment is a very drastic issue, perhaps we will have to think about it too, but at the moment we have to ensure that at the borders... Tourist buses and various other means of transport travelling across borders... with regard to ferry traffic, we must ensure that we can collect passenger data on their journeys and ensure sanitary control, because the infection is likely to spread, also precisely because of a large number of journeys from other countries that are more affected. It is imperative to think about this. And, of course, I agree that we now have to put absolutely all... Totally all other questions. I would like to remind you that coalition is a coalition and is at decision, not because it is the smartest. — Hall Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , but simply because mathematics so coincided at that time on 23 January. This does not mean that the opposition is less capable of offering good solutions, and it does not mean that the opposition must be left behind at the moment. We are 100 Members who have the same number of powers and understanding, so please do - let us agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U19	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U20	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, Latvian society! I too have a call to all to cooperate. And I know I could tell you a lot about Mrs. Viņķele, but I won't. The first thing to do is have a helping hand. The Saeima's draft decision shall contain an incorrect date. That is something we should change. But for everything in turn. Dear Society! I call on all of you not to fall into panic first. Panic has never been a helper in times of danger, which is also an emergency that can cause both the economic crisis and the crisis in the healthcare system... It won't help. In case of distress, a cool mind should be handled. And what I see needs to be done in this situation is to do a number of things. First thing. Dear ones, please don’t stand in the long queues of supermarkets! It is the most effective viral concentration site. The second thing. Family, we have to be an example. I call for all the proposals at the ATR to be withdrawn, to complete the reform today and to go on holiday until Easter. The Europarlament is also closed. There is a potentially very high risk here, there are more than 200 people every day in this house. If necessary, meet in extraordinary sittings. The third thing. Let's support... Dear society, what I am calling for, so that the crisis does not enter into and is not very deep, I am calling for the support of local producers, local producers... To be solid, don't ask for a ticket... for paid tickets, money for concerts, theatres, similar or some travel. Help to realize that it is better for us all to lose a little while together at the moment than for us to lose a deeper and deeper country. Don't buy in stores! The more we buy in stores, the more supply crisis, the more it takes effect! We don't need twice as many toilet paper, I'm sorry. airBaltic, which is our national pride... Dear society, you can help the government and the state, that is, thoughts are coming true, thoughts are materialising. Buy your plane ticket for a trip in six months or one year ahead! Think you're going to Venice in a year's time! Help airBaltic... from this situation - it is our national business pride. Don't go to kindergartens! And I call on employers to show solidarity with those parents who have children - to let their parents stay at home with their children. For the public... In addition to what I want to say... as well as politicians. For the media, I call for an end to putting those terrible titles, to give place, banners, I do not know for free to the national authorities, so that only medical professionals speak on this issue, so that there is no praise for the government or ministers, as we do well. That doesn't help us! We need doctors to explain the situation every day, not politicians! Rather than saying that everything is fine, let medical staff explain how the problem develops or how it decreases. One more thing. In the justice system... if there is already quarantine in the world, cease to operate the justice system. Such viruses can carry the virus in prisons, and thousands of people in prisons. The proceedings must be suspended for at least a month. Quarantine in prisons is needed. Hospital quarantine is required accordingly. I'm gonna have to combine time, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U21	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U22	Another thing that I think is very important. It is essential that the crisis, dear society, the crisis is always a time of great opportunity, and I would like to complement my previous fellow Members. I call on the representatives of all sectors... There's no one right thing to do... come together and figure out how Latvia can create something new, new and actually earn at the expense of the whole world. In times of crisis, not only can people become poor. In times of crisis, people and the country can also become very rich if they find the right approach. Therefore, anyone who is with the relevant education or who is active in the relevant business, I think it is necessary to keep on talking, coming to the government and talking about the relevant issues. And again to society. Society, don't panic! Don't pick up stores! Patience with those concerts, theatres and everything else! Imagine being a student holiday, spending time with your children, reading books, playing chess, playing and using this time when you go somewhere in the fresh air, even on Tērvete Nature Park. It's a way... And ask employers to come back if the country cannot do so. And by the end. The State Revenue Service... similar to that of a foreign country. It's like commercial banks... Please don't take this drastic action right now, you're... do not have to prove that you can destroy people and society, we know that you can. This is not the time to do so, because we, as a small economy, can suffer as a result of a very important crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U23	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U24	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Dear colleagues, I think the most important thing at this point in time is communication, and it is important for the Minister responsible, too, to ensure... and to be a communication plan, including parliamentary tribunals, to use communication with the public, to give up arrogance, instructive Members, but to explain directly the important things that are. For example, yesterday evening I had a hot phone from businessmen about the situation of those workers who have children in the first class up to seven years of age or seven years of age, how to pay/not paying down and what. These are important questions for people who need to be explained. This morning's family doctors on how to issue more correct pages of B... Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have just been issued... whether it has entered into force or not, or has been published. So I think these are more important things than teaching each other how to live. Nobody here is silly, everyone understands the situation so that we can solve this and reject any political ambitions together, but, at the same time, put our minds together and think about how to get out of it with less pain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U25	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U26	Dear colleagues, we are now in a situation that Kipling described at the time as a ceasefire of water that a truly common disaster can bring together very different people. I fully join those colleagues who said that at this time we should forget about our political differences, not share our position - in the opposition and so on, but by joint efforts to try to overcome its dangers... It really is a very serious danger that we are in danger of... Part of it happens, part of it... Unfortunately, no, but I do not want to criticise anyone today. I fully join Mr. Pavlut, we really have to thank our doctors. Because, despite all the problems, we know that our doctors and nurses are working in good faith and doing the best, and I very much hope that, first of all, the coalition Members will keep this in mind. And when we talk next time about medical wages and the financial security of health care, it will not be forgotten, because how much can we demand their self-freedom without providing sufficient resources? And the second moment, which is also very important. It's education, schools. Unfortunately, I do not see a representative of the Ministry of Education and Science here. How, though, will this actually happen to school? We're talking about the remote... distance learning, but, forgive me, do all students, or do all teachers have the technical ability to provide this? Do you have the necessary skills and skills? What are we talking about? I do not want to blame anyone, as I said, but I would really like to hear how this will happen. And not just me, because I have children big enough and my grandchildren are still... another school... Doesn't come to school, but it's a crucial moment for so many people. Are you sure that your children will be able to learn something? Do we once again deceive ourselves that we will learn at a distance, even though there is virtually no possibility - both technical and methodological - for this. So I would very much like to hear how it will be organised, how this information will be passed out of schools. Because yesterday I sat down and looked at what the nets... written by teachers and parents. There are so many questions, there are very few answers. In principle: what role do municipalities play in this whole process? Because the heads of several schools... They say: “Well, we don’t know anything, we are subject to municipalities. And we have not received any instructions from the municipality yet.” So, can the minister on the right hand order schools, over the head of the municipality, as he says. How will this whole system work? So I... I really... I have very serious concerns, but at the moment I do not want to criticise anyone... but I would really like to hear this happen in practice. I think this is essential for all of us because we will be asked questions. And we, as Members, must be able to respond to people by their very nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U27	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U28	Dear colleagues, I do not want to say "good morning" because the morning is not very good. Talking about what we are discussing today. We discuss the draft decision of the Saeima to support or not support the Cabinet of Ministers' order to declare the emergency situation. I would certainly like to say that this decision is to be supported, but when it comes to future action... For each of these situations - we are talking about an emergency - this cannot be anticipated, but action in an emergency can and must be anticipated. So today, when we are talking about what to do next, there are two things. The first thing - which is very important, which the Cabinet of Ministers and relevant ministries are dealing with - is to limit the spread of infection. This requires extreme action. And in this case, it is unlikely that the Saeima would intervene in this process. The other part of the problem is it (The grass noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) how to assess the consequences of the spread of the disease, assess the consequences, and consider the steps needed to prevent them. This is something we are talking about today. This really requires the work of the Saeima. But on certain things. It seems to me that it is time to do two things: to renew Article 81 of the Satversme, which provides that during the absence of the Saeima, the Cabinet of Ministers is entitled to take the relevant decisions independently with further approval in the Saeima, which would allow the Cabinet to act promptly in an emergency situation, despite say, on the debate of the Saeima position or opposition on one or other part of the problem. That's the point one. Two points. It wouldn't really be too... make a longer break between two sessions: the winter session and the spring session, really at that time giving the Cabinet the right to act operationally in the field of infection spread. And the third. This is about closing its long negotiations on administrative territorial reform quickly. I think that it should be remembered here Mr Dombrava's proposal, and perhaps with a cool mind, to return to the Commission for the second reading of the rereading problem, so as not to overload the third reading with problems other than those related to the third reading from a legislative point of view. It seems to me that this would be a concrete step so that we can, without panic, get out of the difficult situation affecting Latvia and Europe and almost the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U29	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U30	Colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the government for announcing the state of emergency, including the first such more extensive proposals with a view to limiting the spread of the disease. However, it seems to me that there are other measures that should be taken in this situation - even more stringent border controls. I think there are quite good examples of the experience of neighbouring countries that we can take as an example of how to do so effectively before the borders are completely closed... or in general eliminating it. But I think that two important aspects should also be taken into account. One is disease control, but the other is the current economic factor. And there must be quite clear actions and signals to business that the government wants to support them and what measures it plans to take. And some examples that I think need to be considered very seriously and create such support. One is tax holidays for entrepreneurs who have been severely affected by Covid-19 prevalence. And a list of such sectors or operators may and must be drawn up in cooperation with business organisations. Facilitation of credit obligations, by accordingly implementing the situations of the forsmeror, is of course a thorough re-evaluation of individual cases. And the state aid also pays off the sick leave. If we think it's very expensive right now... Yes, it is, but prevention is always cheaper than dealing with the consequences, and these and other measures would make it easier for economic operators to cope with this situation, not to lay off workers and then to re-establish normal operation as quickly as possible and also pay. The second major block I would like to draw attention to is the state budget and its use. It is a positive fact that the government already envisages the task of the Ministry of the Interior to review its expenditure, but I am absolutely convinced that at this point there must be a task of each ministry to review its daily expenses and leave only the most necessary. It is precisely for the sake of creating a financial buffer, not knowing how big this crisis will be, but already knowing clearly that it will be costly anyway. Second. I also agree with Mr. Pavlut's idea... the public idea of agreeing with the European Commission on the possibility of increasing the deficit and on the possibility of using the fiscal buffer, which is our buffer for such difficult situations. On Saeima's work. It seems to me that it is also high time to convene regular meetings of sectoral commissions so that the Saeima can also be sure of what the government plan is for each of the areas: the Social and Labour Commission - the health sector's current state of affairs, whether there is enough inventory, or whether there is sufficient resources... and many other questions that are currently unanswered, but there is concern in society. In the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - on the support package for entrepreneurs that I have already mentioned - in the Commission on Budget and Financial (Tax) - on the budgetary situation and plans to address the need for additional funds... and other areas of interest. The ATR is important, but I think it is not as important as dealing with the current emergency situation. And I think that the Saeima government will also have much better support if the Saeima is informed about what the government is doing and what the plan is for it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U31	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U32	Madam President, Minister! I also express my determination and respect for today's response. Of course, avoiding a number of perhaps political conflicts that would seem to be right now, but realising that your responsibility is very high at the moment... and pay tribute and wish good luck. At the same time, reading the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 103 on announcing emergency situations... Of course, let's be sure to pay attention to what is said about the field of education... and, although the head of the Education, Culture and Science Commission is not present at the moment, other colleagues of the Committee are here. I call you probably next week... Reasonable limits in working order... The commission and invite both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Science to tell a little more about concrete events, because the website of the Ministry of Education and Science does not give or tell parents anything, nothing helps teachers, nor information about what will happen in a week's time... or how training will be conducted. So it's a week of time to develop algorithms for both schools and perhaps also for students, because students' self-learning will really be a good thing in the context of the new standard... what is meant by training at a distance, as this will happen, because it cannot be reduced only to modern technologies. We also have previous experiences; we have both textbooks, tasks, and many other things. By this I mean that when developing an algorithm, how... Well, maybe you can do it yourself by the school, you can do it by the municipality so that the schools are together... this would be done, but this information should, of course, not be available on the website of the responsible service of the Ministry of Health, but in this case on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science. And then the municipalities will also place it on their information pages, including on the websites of schools. Consequently, I would like to call for an algorithm of how training takes place, how often it is, how to evaluate it. In parallel, I would like to thank those producers of electronic learning materials who have now offered their services as far as I understand, extend and open free of charge. It will, of course, help, but the methodology, or in this case the algorithm, how training is done for students themselves at home or in other ways, not only using modern technologies, but also conventional... normal ways... I would ask you to just put it on... elementary in several points, understandable... maybe more this time, even especially to be understood by parents, especially if they are students of the younger classes, to understand how to organise training, or that training... At this point, we can learn from the rhythm of the time and from the biorhythm that each child is positive, but so that parents can see that the teachings are going on. Because a month is a very long time. At the same time, I'm thinking deeply about it... on the conduct of central examinations for senior students, which of course is a good thing from the outcome of learning. The question is, how justified it is to know one thing... that the results are already basically corrected when all other examinations are corrected, so that an assessment of the urgency or the progress would probably be reasonable and reasonable. Therefore, I really call on colleagues of the Commission on Education, Culture and Science to support and convene a commission so that ministries can tell rationally elementary algorithms, not measures that there will be videoconferencing, there will be something else, something else. It is not a help to students’ self-learning, nor is it a rational, pragmatic information for pupils’ parents. Because you see what happens on social networks, will we be teachers? No, no. In parallel, it is also what teachers need to do, how much they have or do not have to be in school, whether they can do it from home if there are appropriate technologies, or otherwise. Such answers may need more than just... not Members, but parents and professionals in particular, to see that the work rhythm is organised and that there is also a modern, good integration into further action. But with the agreement of the previous speaker... probably experience in the work of the public administration also means... It seems to me that at this point the more parliamentary secretaries will inform Members, the more peaceful and rational the answer will be, the response... And the more we do... including social networks, we can send rational... rational thoughts on how to act, or quite the opposite... On the contrary, how not to act. Thank you, and once again respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U33	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U34	Hello, colleagues! I will try to answer most of the questions asked about education, primarily about distance learning. So first of all, I want to say that we have a lot, let's say, right now that it's this week... a week's holiday during which all outstanding issues can still be resolved. But for those who have been resolved. First of all, we are aware that absolutely all students are currently not available... smart devices or access to the Internet. We are now actively aware of the situation in which certain teachers do not have access to such opportunities... students don't have this... Such options are available. And there are two solutions... to those who are not available. One, of course, we can ensure, as Mrs Papule said, that there are also traditional materials that have not disappeared anywhere... books and so on. We will also look for solutions with our private partners, how perhaps to ensure this access to the Internet and perhaps also to smart devices for these children who do not currently have such a possibility. About Mr. Planty's commission... for children between seven and nine years of age. That is really the problem. So, if it's now established that up to seven years of age... My parents can get sickness... B the sickness sheet to... to stay at home with children, but what to do for these... seven to nine years old, perhaps not yet ready to really spend two weeks at home and learn the whole time... So we'll think about this. I think that it should also be possible to grant a B-sickness sheet to parents until at least nine years of age. Today... I would like to point out that today at one hour Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska has held a video conference, which invites school directors, municipal members and representatives, as well as a video stream on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science. I invite everyone interested in answering these additional questions to join and watch. Next, I would also like to say that... for teachers... It is important to emphasise to everyone and say that teachers, of course, are by no means... teachers will not be reduced salaries, wages will continue to be fully paid if they are also working remotely. Teachers have the opportunity to go to schools and work from there or, if there is such a possibility to provide these distance learning, also to stay at home and work, to take advantage of this opportunity to work at a distance themselves. And I would also look at all this as an opportunity... as an opportunity for an environment where there is an opportunity to test these digital technologies, digital remote learning using digital technologies It will be a good test to... Looking ahead to the new content of education, looking ahead in general, how the world education system is changing and how access to the education system is changing. I also call... And the last one, maybe... I invite all Members to inform you about these things, to tell you... communication - that's exactly what matters right now... and explain this situation because, no matter how many public resources and everywhere we do, of course, all people will probably not have heard this information, so each one of you has a great responsibility to inform people who are your... who follows you, which is your perhaps acquaintance, and explain these situations. I will continue to answer questions, we will also continue to weigh and watch during this week, during the holiday week, how exactly we provide a distance learning process for all students. And I call all of you to be truly responsive and to maintain peace, and also to tell and explain it to all the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U35	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U36	Dear colleagues, It is a pleasure that the government has finally awakened and declared an emergency. This is a step in the right direction, taking into account what we have seen from government ministers in the past... I have such a reasonable suspicion that this has also happened thanks to the pressure of the opposition. (Applause) However, I have some questions about... However, these measures are strong, in my view, not enough. ... The first question is: why is the ban on public measures limited to over 200 people? I call on you, my fellow Members, to think with your head, not to wait for any consensus on Twitter or for you to receive instructions, recommendations from the European Commission... or something like that. This infection is very contagious. One infected person could spread if he is about two meters away from another person... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) People below particular risk are elderly people - old people. Of those who will be infected, 20 percent will have very serious problems requiring medical hospitalisation. Therefore, only about five thousand sick people will be sufficient to guarantee that the healthcare system is not over. So why do you think that over 200 risks of infection are unacceptable, but 199 are acceptable? A true criterion is to prohibit all public events where, at least on the basis of the practice of other countries, it is not possible to ensure a distance between people at least one metre. By the way, also talking about this space. Here, when one person gets infected, I think colleagues, then the whole nation is happy... I think a lot of you will also be infected. Go on. This government approach to a very large extent, to which I have already... That's what I'm talking about yesterday... rely on people's consciousness. It relies on the call. I'll call... the call to remain at home for those who may have been infected somewhere. Do not go to the shop for yourself. What do you think, colleagues, yesterday... Yesterday... How many of those who may have been and may have been infected somewhere, how many have been conscious and remained at home rather than going to a supermarket to buy toilet paper? What do you think? Are you ready, say, to be confident about the consciousness of every Latvian citizen? I, my fellow Members, also call you to look very carefully at what the opposition, which some colleagues called here a harmful offer, offered you yesterday, and to compare it with this government offer. That, colleagues, would still be day and night. Where there is increased control at Riga Airport for those who return from at least those countries to which even your Foreign Minister... declared it to be a red light? How about increased controls at the Lithuanian border? As well as all those who by car probably return today from ski resorts in Italy and other countries? Does the government offer something to do? No, no! How about online accessibility? What about the medication? You offer to do all this within the limits of existing funding. You are still thinking about some kind of fiscal discipline. You may forget about fiscal discipline. This year's budget will not be fulfilled. It will be good if there is any economic growth at all this year. There's no word for the economy in your plan, that's... I said yesterday... In the coming days, air transportation, tourism, cafes, restaurants, hotels... there are serious problems for all of this today. Oh, you are still replacing the Minister of Economics with that. Perhaps the most important minister in this country today... by the Minister for Health. You, CPV, have someone who understands something about the economy to offer? That's a rhetorical question. I don't think so. Therefore, colleagues, I call once again on you to read carefully what we are offering. It is time to set aside all its positions and opposition. Well, there's no people competent for you, no people.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U37	The name of the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U38	Colleagues! One of the phenomena caused by the Covid-19 spread of the world is the sudden discovery of unknown resources. It turns out that there are many epidemiologists among us. Autodidact, but an epidemiologist. ( Dep. A. Gobzem: “Remember Kipling still! Kiplingu!’ ), I don't teach members of the Saeima what... with what rights! But I would like to say to my colleague Dombrovskis that an epidemiologist's vacancy is now at the centre of disease prevention and control. It sounded like you were absolutely ready to work there. ( Internouncing call.) There's a much lower salary, but I understand... with the joy that perhaps you would like to give your support... its support at this difficult time for the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention. Some comments on the topics expressed by Mr Dombrovskis in a passionate speech. First. We are awaiting guidance from the European Commission. No, we don't! The epidemiological crisis, unlike the political crisis, is led by the formula that first there are recommendations from Infectologists and Epidemiologists and then there is political action. That's exactly the order. Epidemiological crises are not comparable to natural disasters or to any other crisis, such as the civilian one, because they are based strictly - strict! - advice from epidemiologists and infectious physicians. And in this case, the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Control are a summary of the crisis's leading experts. In line with these recommendations, all countries are taking action. Looking at the European countries' responses to this reaction, there is a trend - the more popular the government is, the more decorative measures to combat the crisis, such as the thermal measurement at airports, which seems to seem to be a very impressive event. Italy was one of the few countries in Europe that early started measuring the temperature at the airport. Italy is currently a country in the midst of the crisis, which is failing and whose very generously financed health system is not coping with this either. I talked to my colleague in Lithuania, where references are made here as well. They have been measuring the temperature at the airports for two weeks, a few days ago, the number of people who could be infected by this method was one. They had found one, one, and one. And, you know, Mr. Dombrovskis, he turned out to be suffering from food poisoning. Hence, decorative mayors, on the contrary, can make the situation worse because they create a false sense of security for people. You go through such a thermovisor, you don't at that moment be identified as a temperature, go back home, and then that means... This means that you may not notice the onset of the disease. It is absolutely unacceptable that politicians' rhetoric, the envying rhetoric, against those measures that I do not think of, which I recommend - once again - the world's leading epidemiologists and Infectologists and which are called upon by the World Health Organisation. It's, once again, personal hygiene, it's also... Yes, Mr Dombrovskis, the call doesn't go out if you're quarantined. If you are laughing at this and actually encouraging people to break it, then in a democratic country, it is impossible to stop infections. ( The drug is noise. Impressions. Depp. V. Dombrovskis: “You at all understood what I said?” The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U39	We are continuing the debate. Let me speak to the Minister for Health. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “But let her not speak stupid things! Let him speak as a Minister for Health!’ ) Colleagues, let me speak to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U40	This crisis also teaches patience, so thank you also for this lesson. It is, therefore, precisely a specific request to politicians, as well as members of the Saeima, to ask people to respect quarantine. We cannot save resources - all kinds of resources (Interface: "You noticed quarantine yesterday?" ), both health care resources and the resources of the Ministry of the Interior - every person assigned to quarantine should be monitored. And so this is also the time when in society every individual's responsibility, every individual's choices and every individual's actions are, in fact, the only way we can distance, slow down and prevent the spread of viruses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U41	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U42	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Madam Minister, I support the introduction of an emergency situation in Latvia. Why? To quote Donald Ramsfeld, when he said: “The known, unknown and unknown are known.” We are now familiar with the unknown. The government needs to do its job, we need to do our job as a parliament. Firstly, I agree with Mr Dolgopolova on the need to renew Article 81 by giving them the instruments to the government so that they can act freely at this point. I understand that one parliament at the time of the populism or eclipse, as I say, deleted this paragraph out, but I would recommend that it be renewed. First. Secondly. Colleagues! We are a symbol, Parliament is a symbol. I agree with Mr Dolgopolova that he calls on this House... if we find in an emergency that a lot of people cannot gather... we do not gather until 14 April, if not necessary, make a break, and gather only if necessary. Thank you, Mr Dolgopolov, for your message. And here you have to say exactly as Roger Eils said in his book: “You are the message.” “You are a message.” We're a message. And here I have to agree with Mr. Planty that communication is the most critical thing at the moment. With our behaviour, we tell us what we need to do or not do. Colleagues! I call on you to support the emergency situation. I call you to be wise! May God protect us all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U43	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U44	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Highly respected Minister! Dear colleagues, I really want to say, first of all, thank you for the work that has been done so far for the doctors. And really they're working very responsible, and they're... We listen to them very much, and I have no doubt at all that the Ministry of Health and politicians... do not take serious account of the recommendations of these specialists and epidemiologists in Latvia... This is indeed the case. For my part, too, I can assure you of this. It's a great pleasure for me to hear today, though... Despite the fact that there is an emergency declared... that we have talked - the opposition and the position. I really would also like to say thank you for my part (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) the opposition and members of the opposition, many of whom have turned to me and to other colleagues on an individual basis. Indeed, this criticism is also very valuable for us to understand how to do better, because, colleagues, we are aware that, in fact, all of us have one objective: to minimise as much as possible the spread of this disease and its terrible consequences, which could be the case if the disease begins to spread out uncontrollablely. So we have one goal. I think we don't have anything to argue about here. Yes, there are people among us who believe that restrictions should be much more strict. Among us are people who believe that restrictions are too strict. In this respect, I would like to say that it is extremely important to adopt restrictions that really have a real effect. That's the number one. The second is to adopt these restrictions in good time, because, as the experience of both China and now Italy shows, delayed restrictions can no longer have an effect. From an epidemiological point of view, it is clear that what we see... disease... already in analysis statistics and daily data, there is a certain time lag, perhaps even for a week or more. Real human infection occurs before clinical signs occur. So before that. So you have to work proactively here, and I have great joy... and I am absolutely convinced that both we and the government are working proactively. And that is why this decision was taken yesterday, and I have no doubt that further decisions will be made, if necessary, and also stricter restrictions, because we need to work to advance the situation and to advance the spread of that virus from one person to the next, when we do not even notice it or know it. What else would I like to say? It is clear that we also need to balance these prohibitions and restrictions with some economic activity, so that we do not suffer even more from a complete economic crash, for example, which may cause perhaps even more damage than the virus, so that the evaluation of this benefit and evil is very similar to that of medicine when you are taking medicines - each medicine can cause a side effect, but it also treats the disease. And we need to assess the potential benefits and risks. In conclusion, I would like to say... and, colleagues, really all call for the instructions provided by the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control to be followed up. Colleagues, including themselves, Members, to follow these instructions, both for personal hygiene and for self-carkantine and for their loved ones, by asking them to comply with these conditions. And to your colleagues, seeing that these conditions are not met, also pointing it out. Because, as evidence shows, it is this society's participation that is most effective in limiting the spread of the virus, and it is this social isolation of each other, hygiene and so on. Information... For information... It's sounded... We are also working with the Ministry of Health on how to provide more information to the public, with additional strength. I wish all my colleagues good health so that we do not suffer from this infection, so that our loved ones, friends and society do not suffer from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U45	Thank you. Colleagues! Time for a break, but Members Dzintars, Feldman, Zakaitistov, Pavulut and Kozlovskis are asking for a break until 12.30, so an hour. Do Members have objections? ( The transcripts are, ‘ Let’s finish this! ’) Depp. Mr Gobzems: “Let’s finish the debate and then go on a break!” Medicines cause noise.) Does one of the Members withdraw the signature? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldmans: “I have withdrawn my signature!” ) Thus, Member Feldman withdraws his signature, so let us conclude the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. ( Internoint.) Medicines cause noise.) Colleagues! Please take a seat in the Chamber. Let us continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U46	Dear colleagues and Minister. As I said, you are today the main minister in our country, after all, the minister for the economy. Therefore, no matter what you say here from the pub and no matter who you personally address, we will support you and we wish you endurance... everything that... Well, what's coming, so to say, our... moves in our country. I would just like to remind you that experts, of course, need both to hear, listen and listen, but that is whether... Madam President, can you do something? The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U47	Colleagues in position and opposition! Let the Member take the floor!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U48	I would like to remind you that decisions are taken by officials and politicians. And they also have responsibility for their decisions. These decisions are not taken by either vaccinators or doctors. And that's why they can afford sometimes, apologies, theoretize and judge. I don't want to name you any names here right now, but I'll just read one such expert's inectologist... What he said was written only on Wednesday, Wednesday evening. ‘ The pandemic notification does not change our situation. The ability of skiers and travellers to be reasonable remains to be hoped. Within a few weeks, understand what South Korea did correctly.” And so on. He thought on Wednesday that we had a few more weeks to conclude, analyse, and understand. I repeat: scientists, as they do not have any responsibility for the decisions made, have every right to theoreticalise freely without taking any responsibility, but those politicians who expect some kind of him... to say, you will base your decisions on him like this... theoreticalisation, could make a serious mistake. It's really fast...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U49	Thank you. The name to Member Rihard... You've got a microphone turned off. Your debate is over. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U50	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister! On this point, I will not go into all thanks... and what has been done is what many colleagues have said from this troupe. Two days, three things. The first is a pandemic, the second is an emergency. I think the most worrying thing is the third one: local infection. And these three things in two days... However, we should adopt much more stringent conditions in relation to our borders, with cross-border movements. I am referring here to both road, maritime and air transport. I think it is time to carry out border controls. Whether it's a border guard or an army, or whether it's a Earthguard involvement... Not by closing the border, but by carrying out specific surveys on persons entering: where they have been in the past two weeks, what is the address of their place of residence... Because in this whole context, what may have contributed... and the Latvian so... let's call, the success story that we don't have so many of these cases, is to clearly identify the source. If so far the origins have been clear - air traffic has arrived - clearly identified, also quarantine has been established, then this has contributed to limiting the spread of the disease. And here, however, we see that today, on 13 March, flights arrive at Riga Airport from Rome, Milan, Northern Italy arrive from Copenhagen, come from London and absolutely no monitoring is carried out. For the passengers, recording some of them... what is their place of residence, telling them that they are now obliged to... obligation to stay in home mode for two weeks, in the quarantine facility itself. This is not done at the airport. There is a simple poster at the airport to inform you about the risks that should be... We're not gonna be naive now! How many people pay attention to such posters? There is a need for a specific, individual approach, providing whether it is a tract or what... Anyone who leaves the plane he has to take. In particular, taking into account the need to comply with the arrangements at home. So I really understand that now, when you say something from the platform, let's take actions... I would like to believe that these measures will be taken into account and implemented. I don't think it's going to be done now. But it is also time for additional measures to be adopted, monitored and recorded at our internal borders of the European Union, including external borders. The most important thing is to know the source clearly. — Dep. Mr Stepanenko: "It is written in our proposal!" ) any diseased, any infected, in order to be able to eradicate and restrict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U51	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U52	Madam President, No Minister. Okay. I would like to say to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science that Mr Asheraden promised to call a commission. So I don't pick up signatures. Thank you for that. The question to the Minister for Health or perhaps the parliamentary secretary to think about Order No. 103 Point 42 for pre-schools. Parents giving evidence that my child is healthy may not know that the child already has a virus. I allow that there would also be a need to write a little more what this is about as proof in order to avoid the thoughts of other parents. In addition, Mr Znotiņš, I forgot to say last time that unused resources are also youth organisations, where their programme... The agency can also mobilise young people to disseminate the right information and to do so in a way that young people and students themselves understand. Well, young people talked to young people -- it's much more rational and cooler, in my opinion. And perhaps even more, Mr. Rancán may shorten our yesterday opposition proposals from five days to one day because there are rational responsibilities... rational proposals, to which both the Minister and many others have already referred. I would urge you to be then in the form of Kippling much more friendly also against reasonable action. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U53	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U54	Colleagues, thank you for the debate, it was interesting. But... But on behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft decision prepared by the Commission, by which the Saeima... which the Saeima decides to support the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to declare an emergency situation between 12 March 2020 and 14 April 2020, in accordance with the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 12 March 2020 No. 103 on the announcement of an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the announcement of the emergency situation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague Dagmar Beitnere-Le Galla. And we welcome him. (Applause) Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U56	Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Anda Čakša, Jānis Dombrava, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Andris Kazinovskis, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Vladimir Nikonovs, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Juris Rancāns )... The Rancane is (Interface: “Rambon is!” )... Ramona Petraviča is, Ivans Ribakovs, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Karina Sprūde, Juta Strike, Jānis Urbanovičs, Ivars Zariņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-13-PT13-2052-U57	Colleagues, we agreed on an hour-long break, so let us begin the agenda of the Saeima meeting on March 5 at 12.40.
