ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let us begin the sitting of the Saeima on 16 January 2020. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals be included on the agenda of the meeting (No. (423/Lp13) for the third reading until 29 January 2020.’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On approval of Sandra Kaija as a judge of the Supreme Court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting “On the appointment of Silvija Kuškina (The Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) as a judge to the district (city) court’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks to include in the agenda of the meeting the draft decision “About 10 522 collective application of Latvian citizens “On VAT reduction of medicinal products and medicinal products to 5%“. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members of the Council of the European Union: Čakša, Strīķe, Lībiņa-Egne, Mūrniece, Kozlovskis, Ples and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on protection of the rights of Kristīne Misāne. ‘ Anda Čakša, a Member, has applied to speak about’. So the inclusion of a Member does not want to be discussed. Do Members object to the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. And Members have also asked for this draft decision to be considered as the first item on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision shall be dealt with as a first item on the agenda of the sitting. Consequently, on the agenda, the Bureau's report on the own-initiative proposal submitted. Members Anda Čakša, Juta Strīķe, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ināra Mūrniece, Rihards Kozlovskis, Arthur Toms Plēšs (Sitting Manager knocked with hammer.) , Andrejs Judins, Atis Lejiņš, Atis Zakaistovs and Jānis Dombrava have submitted their own proposal – draft decision on protection of the rights of Kristīne Misāne. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There are therefore no objections. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. So we are starting a debate. The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U2	Good morning! Good morning, colleagues! Today we have a situation in which we, the Saeima, should ask - I really want to emphasise the word "need to ask" - the Danish Parliament and the Danish law enforcement authorities to provide support to the competent authorities of Latvia in order to ensure the right of Kristīne Misāne to be tried in Latvia. Once again, I stress the word “beginning”. There is a very difficult case in front of us with very high rates. This is about Kristīne Misani, whose names we have heard a lot in the last days of the media, - Kristīne Misani, who has been in prison in Denmark for more than a year now. The Danish court has now ruled (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) about extradition of a Latvian citizen to the Republic of South Africa, a place where human rights violations, including inhumane conditions in prisons. What is the crime of these women, Latvian citizens, mothers of two children? She fought for her child and for her safety. She experienced violence, humiliation and extortion. Violence has also been recorded in the South African police, where there are witnesses that a woman is humiliated and barren. But today he's not a violent man in prison, because Kristīne is in prison today, because the demands of the former spouse and father of the younger child, a citizen of South Africa... In the search for Interpol, both Christine and her four - year - old child were asked to be declared and detained. Interpol notes that it is ordered to return the child to South Africa and arrest Christine... with a possible deprivation of liberty for a period of 15 years for a breach of the right of access. In Latvia, the penalty for this is only up to three months. The Latvian court has decided not to extradite the child to South Africa because it is recognised that violence against the mother has taken place. So far the story of violence. And I have to say that violence has no limits. I am pleased that there is now a group of Members in the Saeima who have activated this problem and are working on solving this problem in Latvia. But the other, the most important thing, is... The second part of this story is about Article 98 of the Satversme, which states that “Everyone holding a Latvian passport is in state defence outside Latvia”. Kristīne is a Latvian citizen, whom until now we have not been able to protect, despite the intensive work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs over the year, presenting notes, reaching Kristīne's opportunity to communicate with her children and accompany her to the courts. Despite the Prime Minister's personal involvement in negotiations with the Head of Government of Denmark, despite the involvement of the Ministry of Justice, we have not yet protected Christine. And here I would like to quote the recent speech of President Levit at the formal sitting of the Constitutional Court: “We still see formal application of legal norms, we see examples where this happens, and we all know that it is wrong, but the official concerned says: “I have executed the law!” “ The end of the quote. That is why, today, we must ask the Danish Parliament to help us protect Christine Misani, because this is a story about us each. It's a story about our values. Finally, I will quote the passage of Christine’s request: “Please save me and do not allow the children to take away their mother, who loves them very much. Likely to be taken away for life. I am 46 years old and have two wonderful children - a son who just stayed 11 years old and a daughter who is four years old. We are all three citizens of Latvia. Thank you.” Please support this protection of the rights of Christine Missan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U3	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U4	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues from the coalition! We are truly pleased that you have put this paragraph on the agenda of the Saeima today, however, on the protection of the rights of Christine Misane. And we're also pleased that you've used our encouragement, but... ( You are really great people, that you have done so, and we are happy.) The worst thing in this whole story is that perhaps trying to run a little forward and avoiding cooperation with the opposition... which we offered you yesterday throughout the day and expected you to work together with this... this draft decision of the Saeima. The worst is that you have avoided cooperation and, in our view, have made such a significant mistake in this whole story, apart from the important point of the draft decision of the Saeima, that the Saeima not only asks the Danish authorities to help us deal with this problem, but the Saeima also calls on the Latvian authorities to step up their cooperation with the Danish authorities. This question... Of course, you will say that everyone is working, everyone knows everything, and probably there is no one in Latvia today who would not be aware of this situation. That's true. But the joint decision of the Saeima and the parliamentary focus on this issue, too, would be a very important step towards our institutions, not only to make some thought of those who may now try to find reasons why they have not done so or otherwise, but it would also be a very good signal to our Danish colleagues to point out that we do not want to cover anyone, that we do not want to show anyone in bad or good light, that we also want to motivate our institutions to cooperate. And if we've made a mistake somewhere, a legal mistake, then please help me, show me how we can fix it. That was the mess. And it's not true... For example, someone will say that from the point of view of legal technique, one entity next to the other - the Danish authorities and our internal institutions. No, no! We also have a declaration on the protection of children's rights abroad. And there is also a call for our institutions to inform parents about their rights, as well as a message to the entire international community to help us to respect the rights of our citizens. So that, of course, we shouldn't have done this, colleagues! You shouldn't! This is not the case. Therefore, of course, there should be absolutely no political jealousy in this case. We had to work together because we... Well, a lot of mind doesn't need to be put on signatures and submit. We really need to work together, and this is not a situation where someone could, I don't know, run ahead and use something. Here we should have worked together. And finally. If we do not, however, put it in this draft decision, then at least from the parliamentary tribunal, we could once again call on our responsible authorities instead of really looking... Instead of looking for some kind of salvation, there is some reason why everything we did was right, but do not hesitate to find a solution. If it is necessary to amend the law, colleagues, we can do it in one day. You understand what I'm talking about. If it is necessary to amend the law for one day to save a person, we can do so. We just need to snatch. That is why it will be the responsibility not of the one who made the mistake, but of the one who did nothing and who tried perhaps to cover up some of his old mistakes by doing nothing. Of course, we will all support this draft decision. And we all hope that we will be able to save this situation and that we will be able to save Christine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U5	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U6	Good morning, colleagues! This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following It's almost a year ago. A member of the Saeima from the New Conservative Party, Gatis Eglitis, writes in the Socket: “A worrying article of the “Daily” on Christine [Missian], who was imprisoned... for being caught up in a man’s violence.” The public officials did not react. It's a year ago! A year ago! I would like to recall who was the Minister of Justice on 26 February 2019. The Minister of Justice was Jānis Bordāns at that time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G. Eglitis: “Who was the Prosecutor General?” ) What did the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordans do? I can remind you of what John Bordāns, the Minister of Justice, did at that time, wrote letters about Juris Jušanas to the embassies. I would like to ask you: how many letters about Kristīne Misanis wrote by Jānis Bordans to foreign embassies? ( Interface: “More! ” ) How much? No one is likely to be exactly. Over the course of the year. What I want to say is that Latvian citizenship has no meaning. Citizenship of Latvia has no meaning for several reasons. The first of the reasons is that Latvian citizens can issue the Year to Africa calmly and have done nothing for the Latvian State. ( Interface: “How is nothing? ” ) Latvian citizenship is not necessary in principle also to participate in the elections, because it is absolutely clear that the Latvian government is led by a person who has not participated in the elections at all. What about Latvia's citizenship if we cannot protect our citizens? If we do not want to protect them, if it is more important for us to write letters about our party members? What should be the solution today? Not only for such a political statement, asking Denmark to regret and give us our national citizen, but to use all the legal instruments that we have. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Judes: “What instruments?” ) If necessary, write the law within one day, adopt... As my previous speaker, my colleague Jūlija Stepanenko, has done so from the tribunal. The law writing department is headed by Juta Strike from the Legal Commission. What has she done in this regard in the course of the year? Absolutely nothing! Nothing at all, Jutta Strike! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Zālīte-Gross: “What have you done?” ) You’ve only been sniffed here with your cardboard Jušas before, and not as Kristīne Misanis... year. ( Milestones.) If necessary... If necessary, there are also other legal solutions, and these other legal solutions are very simple. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Jude: “What? Call me one!” ) We have a Prime Minister, a citizen of another country. He could call the Prosecutor-General to himself and talk about this matter. Very likely... It is very likely that we have to make a cunning move, and it is very possible that we formally propose criminal proceedings so that we can ask Christine Missanim to be extradited back to Latvia on this basis, and this criminal proceedings must then be terminated. We cannot imagine the situation either in Israel or in America or in the same Russia or in any other respectable country where the country would not protect its citizens. A year has passed, Mr Eglitis, and I have a question for you: how many times have you asked Mr Bordan how many letters he wrote to Denmark? How many requests for legal aid has he written to Denmark or South Africa? Mr Eglitis, this is your party member and minister from your party. And I can answer. You have not asked once, and Mr. Bordan has done nothing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G. Eglitis: “Who was the Prosecutor General at the time?” ) What I want to conclude: it is quite clear that today's decision is a formal decision that, as a result of some happy coincidence, God gives help to a citizen of our country. But this is not the nature of action. The essence of the action would be a real legal document on the basis of which Denmark would have no other option than to give our citizen back to Latvia. A country that does not protect its citizens is not needed. Whether this citizen is guilty or innocent. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What have you done?” ) But if a country does not protect its citizens and looks calmly at how other countries receive and take justice over our citizens, for what do we need? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U7	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U8	Good morning, colleagues! To reject all emotions, it is clear that we are in this parliamentary draft decision... Let us make a decision today, and this is the case where it really does not matter whether it is submitted by the opposition, the coalition or by some individual Members. The only thing I want to draw attention to is for this decision... The vote on this decision does not cancel the joint sitting planned next week - the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs together with the sitting of the Legal Commission. Because, in my opinion, it is very important to listen to our public officials about what they have been interfering with... Maybe... the lack of regulation or lack of action by any person that has led to such an absurd situation. So, please, I hope that this decision will not cancel the joint committee meeting planned next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U9	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U10	Colleagues! First of all, I would like to say thank you to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who has been working actively to solve the problem. But lawyer Gobzem... I want to make sure that he can understand the nuances better. There are issues that can be dealt with in our laws. But Latvia does not extradite or decide to extradite a person to South Africa. Person arrested in Denmark. And the Danish authorities decide what to do. The question is, can we dictate Danish? We can work with them. And so cooperation takes place, not by amending laws, but really then by working actively. And as far as I am aware (and I think you also have information available), the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did everything possible to solve the problem. It is very important that the country is active in defending its citizens. But there are opportunities that can be exploited. And in this case, I think our decision can help to solve the problem. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U11	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U12	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! This draft decision must undoubtedly be supported today. Making this draft decision - of course it is our internal... backstage. And, unfortunately, this could have been common to all the Saeima... not only coalitions, but also oppositions that actually... I see clearly that Jūlija Stepanenko was one of the main authors of this document, but their signature is unfortunately not on this document. But if we are talking about Christine Missan, of course you can see this heroism that is today... It is in the Saeima that we will defend the citizen of Latvia and do our best as Members to do so. However, is Christine Misane the only... Is that so? Kristīne Misāne is undoubtedly a person who has been highly raised in the press, and he has attracted the attention of Members. However, I am concerned, I really believe... And it's true that Christine Misane is not the only one... the only Latvian citizen who is in this situation. If we look at the annual report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on our foreign affairs, we see that there are some impersonal lines devoted to this problem. (Applause) And I think that's the biggest problem. And I call on this issue to stick to the next week when we are going to speak in a foreign debate, and a little bit too, to mark the course - also from the Foreign Minister - as we do in the future not only for one person, but for all those who are in such a situation. as a state protects its citizens. Colleagues, I call for support and thought not only on one occasion, but more generally on this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U13	Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U14	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, everyone here! I want a little... to remind you a little bit of the historical history with which this case started. In particular, Mrs. Missane was detained in Denmark on 9 December 2018, on the basis of the information contained in the Interpol database. The Prosecutor General's Office of Denmark informed the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Latvia in accordance with the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 6 September 2016 on the detention of the Mission. It is the only competent authority in Latvia that has the power to decide on the question of whether or not to issue its detention decision. In particular, on 17 January 2019, the Prosecutor General's Office informed the Prosecutor General's Office of Denmark that it did not see possibilities for taking Misane to the Republic of Latvia. On 2 April 2019, the Danish Prosecutor General adopted a decision on the extradition of Missan to the Republic of South Africa. At present, the decision has been reviewed at all levels of the Danish courts and the decision taken is final. We cannot ignore the fact that the only institution that could do something in this case is the Office of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Latvia. What the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Latvia did or, more precisely, did not do, has a very significant impact on the individual, the particular family, and most likely this is not the only thing in which we observe, in my opinion, absolutely unacceptable indifference, unwillingness to engage, seeking all kinds of legal solutions to resolve this issue in a positive way. The Office of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Latvia had the opportunity to launch this particular case in Latvia, to issue this European Arrest Warrant, and to bring this particular person to Latvia. What Denmark did for its part, sorry, they gave Latvia an opportunity. On 17 January 2019 Latvia gave up this opportunity. And how Denmark evaluates this situation... They did not turn to just one of several public authorities, they turned to the state, and they refused. Now the prosecutor's office is not willing to engage in this process and this formal approach, looking for more arguments why not do, rather than do, at the moment we are not just... Mr Judine said: “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done a lot.” I agree. Indeed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done a lot to try and use water. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Justice, in the person of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordāns, has carried out numerous activities (many meetings, numerous letters to both the General Prosecutor's Office of Denmark, the Ministry of Justice, contacts with the Ministry of Justice, the General Prosecutor's Office of Denmark, the General Prosecutor's Office of Latvia, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) in ten different formats. All this is because the authority responsible for taking this decision (as I said, I believe it is... there was an opportunity to take over this case for Latvia), it was not done... The whole country was forced to exercise, and now too... I think yes, I can say that this is to a large extent a declaratory step with a call for the Danish Government to engage. In fact, Denmark gave this opportunity to Latvia, but Latvia did not take this opportunity. In my opinion, this is another bright thing, which to a large extent points to the weak involvement of the General Prosecutor's Office or to the unwillingness to engage in complicated processes, and in my opinion, if someone has to be rejected here, then to the General Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Latvia. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U15	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U16	Dear colleagues, As it was expected, this really is not the time to try to position “for” or “to” some institutions, to search for the guilty and to show their loved ones in good time... political. Colleagues, the words of Mr Juša once again confirm what I pointed out to you in my first speech: there was no need to start up, there was no need to stop working with us, there was no need to write this draft decision together. I don't know who adjusted our draft decision from you and why you thrown it out... cooperation with the institutions, because once again, you also say to yourself that this is very important. It is very important to call on our own institutions to cooperate, to work. Now you say: we should have worked and we will wait for the result. This must be stated in the decision of the Saeima. That is why I repeat from the troupe once again that it remains in the debate: we must certainly call, and I also call on Mrs Strike to reaffirm what has been said - that the Legal Commission will be sitting next week and next week we will have the opportunity to convince those who perhaps do not want or understand, or have not found an opportunity to understand, how we could still fix this error. But please, honourable colleagues, this is not a place for politics. Not today, not now. Then you can take each other's ideas and talk to each other. This is not the situation. We need to work together and we need to call together to resolve this situation in different ways. We know, we are the legislator, everything is in our hands, even today, to do everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U17	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U18	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! This question is, of course, first and foremost, about Mrs Misane and her family, but in fact it is just another example of the situation where we are talking about attitude. Whether we are talking about formalism of the law and some kind of prosecutors about formalism or whether we are talking about our citizens and dealing with each citizen equally. I will give one example where formalism has lost its attitude. You remember, it was years ago... He was a boy named Dāvis, who needed an urgent operation. A specific operation that was performed only in the United States because of its rarity. And then... At first, Guntis Belēvičs, the Minister of Health of that time, refused to give the boy this opportunity to go to America and save his life. At first. For, see, the Cabinet of Ministers laws did not provide that children could be treated in America; they only provided for procedures for treatment in the European Union. And that's why it was originally rejected. It is nothing that the Constitution establishes the right to life. It's nothing that the laws of the Cabinet of Ministers do not provide for a specific procedure for treating in America, nor do they prohibit medical treatment and send children there. That was the attitude of one minister, but then... Then another minister - then Minister of Agriculture Jānis Dūklavs - and “State Forests of Latvia” joined; they had a different attitude. They found funds, and the boy left and healed. And the same thing is here. I'm not going to judge anyone now. I... But it looks like... At first sight, Mr Jušas seems to be right regarding the responsibility of the prosecutor's office or specific prosecutor and, of course, of the supervising prosecutors in the face of this formalism... against human destiny and life. I do not question it, but I do not want to immediately execute the final judgments here. But the question is, what did everyone else do? And why are we going to make such a decision, on which I will of course vote in favour today (I hope it will change something)... Why do we accept it this year, not last year? For example, I did not even know about the situation. If Mrs. Missan's family had been silent, I wouldn't know that. That would have been the case. But there was someone who knew - and knew that here is the House of Saeima, where we, a hundred, are, and where, I think, each and all of us care about our citizens. And we would also be prepared to do everything possible a year ago to correct this situation. I hope we can fix it, but... I hope we... This might be one moment we decide to do different things in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U19	Name to Member Armand Kraus. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U20	Good morning, colleagues! I think this is just one example you can see. And I hope that we will be able to make a good decision here in the Saeima. But this is really about the activities of institutions or failure to act, which is the result of which citizens of the Republic of Latvia suffer. And imagine if, however, we can't help Mrs. Missane in some way and she won't return to Latvia what her future life will be! We know what prisons are there in South Africa, what judicial system and everything else is there. And here I fully agree with Mr Jušas with regard to the Prosecutor General's Office. And I can give you one example. By the way, Members cannot do much to help... Maybe you remember last year... There was a prosecutor general of particularly important matters, Biruta Loz, who was in her early years, over 80, and there was a message that she had been murdered. And... to understand: when I wrote a letter to the Prosecutor General's Office a year ago, people approached me and said that violence was taking place against him, pressure was being put on him... Of course, the Prosecutor General's Office did nothing, formally replied. I'll see who's signed up to that letter. Perhaps this is Mr. Kalnmeier. Maybe someone else. But in fact, the Prosecutor General's Office is guilty of the death of this former employee. Because the man I wrote about was the one who killed this lady. There's a specific case where death is at the end. It's good that we're joining here. Here I would like to say that, of course, we Members... We have a duty to help, a duty to act. But even more so, it is also up to the members of the government to help act and prevent it in good time. Therefore, in fact, someone had to follow and respond quickly, so that from January until April, when Denmark took its decision, the Latvian State had already responded more intensively. They should have asked questions to the Prosecutor General's Office why they replied. And why did they say that they cannot take over the citizen of Latvia? I believe that in this way we could also come to the situation this time that the state institution is responsible for the death of a citizen of the Republic of Latvia. And there would also be a responsibility... and the co-responsible ministers concerned, who must monitor it and monitor it to ensure that everything is done in accordance with the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U21	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U22	I would like to agree with what Member Jurash said from the troupe today, but with some remarks. First... The first argument is that it is not only the responsibility of the Prosecutor General's Office, but it is in the most direct manner the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and also the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Jušas. When you learned about this case, you should proactively have run to the Saeima with a solution, offer. You haven't been hurt for a year. That is also your personal responsibility, Mr Jušas. You have not made any proposals until now. The only reason we are dealing with this issue here today is simply because Jūlija Stepanenko has presented the relevant document that you have taken over. Without the action of Julia Stepanenko, we would probably not decide at all today. It is therefore your responsibility that you did not come proactively at the beginning of last year. We would have a year to figure out solutions in the Saeima if the government, including the Ministry of Justice, had not been able to figure out solutions. But I am convinced that if people are in power, if they are in positions of ministers, if they are in positions of parliamentary secretary, then it is for them to come with these proposals, rather than wait for someone else to bring them. These proposals must come from the Prime Minister's office, from the Justice Minister's office, possibly from the Interior Minister's office... and work together to make it happen. So today's political, let's say, such a game and speaking... that, yes, it is the Office of the Prosecutor General that is responsible in a way, I can agree. But they're not the only ones. The problem is that we do not need to find responsible people today (God with not being historically pro-active) but the problem is that you do not stand up in a tribunal today, Mr. Jušas, like the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and the Saeima, but you do not offer a solution to what should be done directly (it would be your task to protect a citizen of the Republic of Latvia) because you do not have such ideas. That is what I wanted to say: it was the government-building parties that had to climb today, tell us what the solution is, to propose this solution, so that it is not just a declarative decision by the Saeima. You too, Mr. Judin, as an expert in criminal law, as you call yourself (Interview.) - You... As a representative of the government-building, Prime Minister's party, you were obliged to climb today's platform and say, 'We have this solution!' The problem is... The problem is, Mr. Judine, that you do not have the solution. You don't have the solutions! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Judins: “You have the same right as a Member!” ) I therefore say that solutions in today’s circumstances... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Judins: “What is your solution?” ) can be two. First. This may be a separate law that we adopt as a matter of urgency (as in the case of urgency, party funding could be increased). A second solution is actually to agree with the Prosecutor General's Office, so that criminal proceedings are initiated, even without justification this time. We understand all in Latvia that it could be unjustified in criminal proceedings, but it can be the basis for the rescue of our citizen. And this should follow from the representatives of the parties that make up the governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U23	The name to Member Juris Jušas for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U24	That's... I wanted to inform the Members present. Probably a lot of people have followed the mass media... and the information referred to therein. At the moment, the Ministry of Justice has prepared an international legal assistance agreement which, we hope, will be concluded with the Republic of South Africa in the near future, and with this agreement, we hope, if all this goes so far... that both these criminal proceedings and Mrs. Missane himself... we could see her case here in Latvia in the future. That's all.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U25	I closed the debate. Colleagues, let's vote! Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the protection of the rights of Christine Misane! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Thank you. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Safety” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Customs Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Immigration” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are Members against (Interface: Vote!) )... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Immigration to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Asylum” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Neighbours... Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Neimins!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U26	Good morning, colleagues! I have a request to hand over this draft law as a joint responsibility commission to the Saeima Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U27	So there is a proposal to refer the joint committee to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Asylum” to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Evija Papule, a Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U28	Good morning, Madam President. Probably it's not traditional to speak against the parliamentary commissions, and yet... I will say honestly, I am concerned about the tendency to make significant decisions about fundamental changes in Latvian education in an ever narrower circle, to develop in some offices without much discussion - even from the perspective of non-profit professionals. Here we see the next step in this trend. Conveniently designed - deprive the Saeima of its right to know and engage in future planning by evaluating the decisions made on what will happen in education and why. In my view, the order of things in this situation should be defined as follows: the desire to plan education should also be followed by the responsibility for the outcome of the reforms implemented, including the lack of funding in education. You, all parties, particularly coalition parties, have identified education as a priority or one of the main priorities. It has to be said that, in the current decision-making model, it is difficult to distinguish between what decisions are taken by the government, which is the members of the coalition parliament, because everything, as usual, is decided by the coalition board... Yes, yes, I know it has a different name, but the model and the action are the same as before. Sometimes there is a valid question, which is really the main issue in this decision-making model: the executive or decision-makers? What are their arguments? As usual so far and in the future, it seems to be behind closed doors, and we do not even know about it. Every year, the Saeima listens to the situation and discusses the situation, but - is what is happening here in Latvia and affecting education not important? In my opinion, education needs to be discussed by the Saeima as an annual report. We could talk about what is of interest to us all, including the pre-school, because one of the most important reforms has now been launched in education: the introduction of new content and the change in its acquisition. In September this year, Classes 1, 4, 7 and 10 will continue to do so in school. Don't your children go to kindergarten, don't go to school, don't study in technique... do not receive higher education? Do you really care, and it is not your joint responsibility to make these changes meaningful, supported by society, because they affect the generation of the Latvian people? Is that not our responsibility for the consequences of joint, although often formal, decision-making at present? An open discussion is also aware of the consequences of long-term non-granted funding for science, higher education, teacher's remuneration, and of the importance of education for economic growth... not in words, but in reality. Therefore, as if the convenient proposal - the guidelines for education development are to be left only for the government's internal use - is not only hypocritical (as the Polish ministries have not yet ceased to exist), but also cowardice and clear indifference about our children and young people... and at the same time - Recognition of Saeima surface working style and laziness. I know that these are the only guidelines that the Saeima has yet to approve, but I guess we need all the paper on the shelves and on the right drawers. But I asked once again: do none of you really want to participate in the education of the future? Even if coalition parties have this opportunity, opposition parties are completely isolated from the planning process, and this is against democratic principles. That's why I'm calling this time... was also evaluated by the Commission... do not support such a proposal. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U29	“On” has applied to speak Member Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U30	Good morning, colleagues! This must be the case when the opposition forces have differing views on this issue. And I'll try to explain why. For me and some of my colleagues who have worked for a long time in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, there is also a process in which we worked on the adoption of previous education guidelines. And we remember very well that the Cabinet had prepared this document. It came to the Saeima. Formal approval had to be made by the Saeima, but practically the Saeima had no rights in the details... something to change in this document, because in that case it should be returned to the Cabinet of Ministers and it would be drawn for a very long time. And the real contribution was that in these discussions held at the Saeima, which took place at the Saeima, the issues that are key issues were really discussed; the problems were discussed and, in essence, such a platform, let us say, which should be based on building further Latvian education system. Such a common platform was also harmonised. And not everything that was recorded in these educational guidelines, which are still in force at the moment, was not all in line with what we were discussing at the time. But just that format... It didn't make it so, well, like this... amend the following entries: And so, in essence, that real contribution was due to a discussion... but the discussion can already take place regardless of whether the approval is the Cabinet of Ministers or the approval is the Saeima with its vote. The way the relevant sectoral commission works is important. And here I appeal to Mr Asheraden that really when we're in 2021-2027 concept... Then let's see the guidelines... This should be done in good time, even at a preparatory stage, perhaps in a number of iterations, so that there are no problems that Mrs Papules has just spoken about. And if we do so, then I think we will achieve a common platform for many issues, acceptable to all Members of the Saeima, or at least to the majority, based on rational arguments. Because it's really important to think here about how to rationally improve the Latvian education system, from, let's say, pre-school to higher education and involve those things that are related to science and innovation. So that I am now opening this discussion... In order to open the debate sufficiently in time, I call for the vote to be taken in favour of the referral of this draft law to the Commission. And so at this stage of discussion, at the first stage of discussion, when we talk about changes to the Education Law, we can already agree in practice, now, on how the whole development of this education guidelines is progressing. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U31	Colleagues! So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Housing Property Law” submitted by Member Ikstena, Rūkšāne-Ščipčinska, Skride, Bluķe and Pleš be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U32	Good morning, colleagues! We have prepared the draft law “Amendment to the Apartment Property Law”. This will contribute to the inclusion of people with disabilities in social life and facilitate their mobility. The draft law provides for the right for the owner of the apartment to install, without coordination with other residents of the house in the part of the common property, to renovate a landscaped area or access road, to build a ramp, if the property of the apartment has a separate entrance, as well as to create a marked parking lot for citizens with disabilities. I would like to stress that the amendment does not provide for additional funding or the elimination of security rules, but it will significantly reduce the bureaucratic obstacles to ensuring access to the environment and a dignified life. The amendment was made in response to a complaint from several societies and citizens about the existing arrangements. And although several municipalities currently provide support for the adaptation of residential premises, it is necessary to provide support for other apartment owners. Such support cannot be obtained in the majority of buildings because it has several tens of owners, some of the owners of the apartments live abroad or are unattainable. On the other hand, the number of apartments exceeds several tens or even a hundred. It is often impossible to collect the necessary number of signatures, because the disabled person must do so himself... who lacks mobility. This draft law will remove this restriction, ensure the human rights of persons with disabilities and improve their quality of life. I invite you to support the transfer of this draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government and further examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U33	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the disposal of real estate for public needs – for the installation of the state border band of the Republic of Latvia on the state border of the Republic of Belarus” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Management of Public Persons’ Shares and Capital Companies” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Court” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to the draft law (Interface: Vote!) )... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -21, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to the draft law (Interface: Vote!) )... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. Members Kalniņš, Latkovskis, Zakaistovs, Ples, Strīķe, Pavļuts and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the 80th anniversary of the occupation of the Republic of Latvia and the unacceptable disruption of the history of the Second World War”. Do Members object to the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. And Members of Lībiņa-Egnere, Strīķe, Riekstins, Zakaistovs, Latkovskis, Dzintars and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative” (No. 546/Lp13).’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. On own-initiative proposals submitted. The draft decision “On the further progress of the 10 522 collective application of Latvian citizens “On the reduction of VAT on medicinal products and medicinal products to 5%”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. And the draft decision “On the 80th anniversary of the occupation of the Republic of Latvia and the unacceptable distortion of the history of the Second World War”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola on 9 January 2020. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola to grant her unpaid leave on 9 January this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Ivars Zarins from 14 January to 16 January 2020. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ivars Zarins to grant him unpaid leave from 14 to 16 January this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The agenda shall be for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, for the expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision “On approval of Sandra Kaija as a judge of the Supreme Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U34	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 15 January, the draft decision “On approval of Sandra Kaija as a judge of the Supreme Court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Sandra Kaija to approve the judge of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U35	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Sandra Kaija as a judge of the Supreme Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the appointment of Silvija Kuškina as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U36	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 15 January of this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Silvija Kuškina as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Silvija Kuškina to appoint a judge of the district (city) court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U37	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of Silvija Kuškina as a judge of district (city) court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U38	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration at the second, final sitting of the Saeima on the urgent draft recognised law “Amendments to the Postal Law”. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport to ensure compliance with the regulations in the provision of postal services. The draft law provides for the identification of administrative offences in the provision of postal services and the penalties applicable to them. One proposal was put forward for second reading, which is the proposal of the Legal Bureau on the drafting of the title of Chapter XIV. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U40	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U42	Good morning! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration at the Second Session of the Saeima on the urgent draft recognised law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”. Taking into account the necessary amendments regarding the decoding of the Latvian administrative infringement system and the determination of violations in sectoral laws, the draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport and was prepared to establish the regulation of administrative liability in the field of electronic communications. In total, 12 proposals were submitted to the draft law for second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to exclude an article of the draft law relating to breaches of data protection, as it is regulated by another law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U44	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to exclude an article of the draft law relating to breaches of data protection, as it is regulated by another law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U46	3. - Mr Feldman's proposal. Equals the relevant sanction with the existing sanction. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U48	4. - a editorial proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U50	5. - the proposal by Member Krišjānis Feldman, which brings the penalty in question into line with the one already in force. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U52	6. - the proposal by Member Krišjānis Feldman, which brings the penalty in question into line with the one already in force. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U54	7. - the proposal by Member Krišjānis Feldman, which brings the penalty in question into line with the one already in force. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U56	8 / 8 - the proposal by Member Krišjānis Feldman, which brings the penalty in question into line with the one already in force. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U58	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible to supplement the draft law with an article providing for liability for breach of the requirements of the protection of public electronic communications networks by changing the numbering of subsequent articles accordingly. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U60	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - That's Mr. Wittenberg's proposal. The proposal was partly supported and included in the Commission 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U61	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U62	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible specifying the competence in administrative infringement proceedings. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U64	12. - That's Mr. Wittenberg's proposal. The proposal was partly supported by the Commission and has already been included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U65	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U66	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law on amendments to the Convention on the Verification and Stamping of Articles of precious metal Products, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U68	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission looked at the draft law “On amendments to the Convention on the Verification and Stamping of Precious Metal Products”. No proposals were received for the second reading. Members in the Commission in the second, final, reading of the bill supported the draft law. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Convention on the Verification and Sealing of Precious Metal Products at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on International Assistance’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U70	Hello, colleagues! See the third, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". These amendments will improve under the guidance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of international aid organisations, as well as facilitate cooperation with civilian experts. Three proposals have been received for the third reading. 1. - The proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which complements the existing version and improves the way... define the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to specify the way in which support will be provided to the civilian expert. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U72	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is clarifying nature so as not to duplicate the new legal order. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U74	And 3. - the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which supplements the section on the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers to be drawn up in accordance with this Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U76	I call for support to be given to all draft laws in third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law on amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U78	Dear Members, honourable Members, The Foreign Affairs Commission looked at the draft law on amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court at first reading. These amendments concern the ratification of two resolutions. Then for each of the resolutions separately. The first resolution provides for the deletion of Article 124 of the Rome Statute. The article has so far provided for the possibility for the new Member States of the Rome Statute to declare a special seven-year transitional period during which they do not recognise the jurisdiction of the Rome International Criminal Court in respect of the category of crimes referred to in Article 8 of the Rome Statute if it is considered that the offence has been committed by its national.... or within its territory. This article was included in the Rome Statute as some Member States expressed concerns at the final stage of the drafting of the Statute as to whether their personnel participating in UN peace missions could be subject to politically motivated criminal proceedings. Only two countries have used it so far: France, which withdrew its declaration in 2008, and Colombia, which ended its transitional period in 2009. When reviewing the statute of criminal courts, most Member States decided on the need to delete this article, which is now provided for in this resolution. The second resolution provides for the amendment of Article 8 of the Rome Statute to recognise as war crimes the use of weapons containing microbes or other biological means or toxins; the use of weapons whose primary effect is the creation of personal injuries with fragments that cannot be detected by X-rays in the human body; the use of specially designed laser weapons which have the sole function of fighting or one of the combat functions of creating permanent visual loss. Article 8 of the Rome Statute already recognises the use of various specific weapons, ammunition, charges, gases and other poisonous substances as war crimes. The amendments to complement the scope of the aforementioned weapons were proposed by Belgium and, during the discussions at the Assembly of the Member States of the Rome International Criminal Court, most of the Member States supported the amendment. Therefore, amendments to the Rome Statute were prepared accordingly. I therefore call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U79	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U80	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U81	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 January this year. Draft law “On the first reading of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the Double Taxation of Income and Capital Tax and Prevention of Tax Abuse and Protocol thereof”. On behalf of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U82	Colleagues! Another draft law from the Foreign Affairs Commission. This time, a draft law that supports the aim of the Latvian Government to strengthen Latvia's competitiveness in international economic cooperation. Latvian companies go out in new export markets, establish closer relations with new leaders of economic growth, and the task of Latvia's state is to provide it with an appropriate legal framework and protection. Without a mutual convention, cooperation with investors of a Contracting State shall be taxed in the other Contracting State solely on the basis of the taxes and laws of the other State. The other Contracting State may change both the tax rates and the calculation of its taxable income. In the current situation, the investors of the contracting State are not guaranteed a certain change in the tax rules over the longer term and it is therefore not possible to plan the investment or the return and profits accurately. In addition to this, since Latvia has been a member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (which we are most commonly known for the English abbreviation OECD), in such conventions, we also include provisions on the implementation of the international standard of transparency and exchange of information in the field of taxation developed by the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information. This also prevents, among other measures, tax evasion and provides for dispute settlement procedures. I call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U83	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the first reading of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the Double Taxation of Income and Capital Tax and the Prevention of Tax Abuse and Protocol thereto! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U84	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U85	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 January this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Railway Act’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U86	At second reading, we will consider the draft law on amendments to the Railway Act. The draft law was drawn up by the Ministry of Transport to ensure that the European Parliament and the Council (the Head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Directive of 11 May 2016 on the interoperability of the rail system in the European Union and Directive on rail safety transposition. Ten proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkait, which provides for the addition of new provisions to Article 5.1. The proposal was partly supported by the Commission and included in section 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U87	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U88	2. - a proposal by the responsible Commission on the rights and obligations of the public railway infrastructure manager. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U90	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linitat, which provides for the exclusion of Article 12.2 eighth paragraph. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U92	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkait to clarify the wording of Article 13.2. The proposal was partly supported by the Commission and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U93	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U94	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible to replace the word "carriers" in Article 13.2, with the words "the applicants". The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U96	Proposal No 6 (Rolling Noise) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U97	Colleagues! Colleagues, just a minute... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Now focus, please, work! Colleagues, please focus on work! Stop talking! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U98	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkait, which intends to add Article 3.4.1. The proposal was partly supported by the Commission and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U99	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U100	7. - a proposal from the responsible Commission setting out the arrangements under which a single safety certificate may be issued to the carrier in railway infrastructure border sections for public use. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U102	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Lindhait, in the form laid down in point 47 of the transitional provisions. The proposal was partly supported by the Commission and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U103	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U104	9. - a proposal from the responsible commission setting out the amount of funding for 2020 and 2021 for the Office for the Investigation of Transport Accidents and Incidents. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U106	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Minister of Transport Linkaitas, which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall develop and approve by 1 July 2020 the procedure referred to in Section 5.1, Paragraph six of this Law for the provision of accounting and accounting services by the railway The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U108	Please support the draft "Amendments to the Railway Act" at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U109	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law amending the Railway Law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U110	The deadline for submitting proposals is 23 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U111	23, huh? The deadline for submitting proposals is 23 January this year. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared. While these results are being prepared, the word for a statement to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U112	Hello, colleagues! We are setting up a group of Members to promote volunteering at this time. In 2016, the Latvian Saeima adopted a law that made a commitment to do so. I invite all the interested to the Yellow Hall now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U113	Not registered: Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Klementjevs, Anita Muižniece, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Sandis Riekstins... And Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U114	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U115	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting. Members Benhen-Beken, Krapāne, Kursīte, Zakaistov, Puga, Pucens and others ask that the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ata Zakaistov from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Krapāne, Kursīte, Zakaistov, Puga, Pucens, Gaidāns and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Krapāne, Kursīte, Zakaistov, Puga, Pucens, Girgens and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken to the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Members Benhen-Beeken, Krapāne, Kursīte, Zakaistov, Puga, Pucens and others are asking that the draft decision on the election of Mr Ata Zakaistov to the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications be put on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Benhen-Beken, Krapāne, Kursīte, Zakaistov, Puga, Pucens and others ask that the draft decision on the election of Member Ata Zakaistov to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We're going on with the law. Draft law “Amendments to Latgale Special Economic Zone Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U116	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to Latgale Special Economic Zone Law”. Eight proposals were received to the second reading. Let's start examining the proposals. 1. - a proposal from Members Teirumnieks, Kursītes, Kazinovska, Kozlovska and Bondar. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U118	I shall now call it a group of Members, if possible. 2. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U120	3. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U122	4. - a proposal from a group of Members. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U124	5. - a proposal from a group of Members. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U126	6. - a proposal from a group of Members. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U128	7. - a proposal from a group of Members. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U130	And also 7. - Group of Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U131	Fifteen!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U132	... which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U133	Therefore, Proposal No 8 is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U134	Please approve the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U135	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Latgale Special Economic Zone Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U136	30 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U137	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 January this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on the privatisation of land in rural areas”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U138	Hello, colleagues! The Cabinet has submitted amendments to the law “On the Privatisation of Land in Rural Areas” to us, the Commission. I will try to tell you very briefly, because the annotation is very long and thorough. The Ministry of Agriculture, which is responsible, has described everything related to this draft law. Because, as you know, land issues, agricultural land issues have always been sensitive in our country. The nature of the case. Upon the accession of Latvia to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Latvia committed to address non-compliance with the Liberalisation Code by 31 December last year, and to introduce non-discriminatory rules for all OECD countries. Given that we are committed and that we have joined the organisation, of course, we need to amend our law on the privatisation of land in rural areas so that he meets... that all OECD countries have the same right - that they have the right to purchase land in our country for both individuals and legal entities. We like it or we do not like it, it must be done, and so the Ministry of Agriculture has made these amendments to that law so that it can happen in the future. The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading and I call on you Members to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U139	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U140	Submission of proposals - until January 30... This year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U141	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 January this year. Examination of draft decisions Draft decision on extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” (No. (423/Lp13) for the third reading until 29 January 2020.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Tourism" (No. 423/Lp13) for the third reading until 29 January 2020’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Changing the Responsible Commission to the Draft Law “Amendment to the Law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative”” (No. 546/Lp13).’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the change of the commission responsible to the draft law “Amendment to the law on popular voting, law proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative” (No. 546/Lp13)’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Examination of own-initiative proposals The draft decision “On the further progress of the 10 522 collective application of Latvian citizens “On the reduction of VAT on medicinal products and medicinal products to 5%”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U142	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On 10 October 2019, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 522 Latvian citizens entitled “On reducing VAT on medicinal products and medicinal products to 5%”. At two sittings, the Board for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima examined a collective application that called for a reduction of the VAT rate for medicinal products and medicinal products up to five percent. The Commission heard a representative of the applicants who pointed out that Latvian citizens do not have sufficient funding to buy the necessary medicines and that the state also has losses if the patients do not cure the disease in good time. The Commission requested the opinion of the Ministry of Health and Finance on possible effective mechanisms for reducing the price of medicines, as well as an opinion on the fiscal impact of reducing the rate of value added tax on the public budget. Having taken note of the views of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, the commission unanimously decided that the issue should be seen in a much broader context. The Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On 10 522 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On reducing VAT on medicinal products and medicinal products to 5%” with the task of preparing a concept on the financial availability of medicinal products by 1 June of this year. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U143	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On 10 522 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On reduction of VAT on medicinal products and medicinal products to 5% “the way forward”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 82, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the 80th anniversary of the occupation of the Republic of Latvia and the inadmissibility of the disruption of the history of the Second World War. Mr. Kalnins, will you speak on behalf of the applicants? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. O.E. Mountain: “Yes!” ) On behalf of the applicants - Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U144	Dear President, Dear colleagues, There is a saying: in order to remain free, it must be fought for every day. The same could be said of justice, especially historical justice. Today we have the opportunity to defend Latvia's honour once again. This document has been prepared in the light of recent trends and false statements of Russian officials on the history of the Second World War, including denying the fact of the illegal occupation and annexation of Latvia and trying to undermine the role of the internationally condemned Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact in the cause of the Second World War. I will not repeat the lies made by Russia, but just add that the Latvian Parliament must continue to contribute to the creation of an objective interpretation of history. We must not leave history to historians alone, as Russia repeats in its propaganda. The history of your country needs to be maintained, the links must be seen and the international partners must be able to explain them in a precise language. Russia's politically motivated revisionism is unacceptable neither to us nor to other countries in our region. And so we inform this and invite the international community to pay attention to it and to evaluate these Russian efforts critically. By the way, not only the Baltic countries, but Poland is also defamed in these news from Moscow. On 23 August 1939, the two totalitarian regimes - the National Socialist Germany and the Communist Soviet Union - agreed, in violation of international law, to divide the spheres of interest between Central and Eastern Europe by concluding the Molotov-Ribentrop Pact and its secret additional protocol, thus leading to the Second World War. This year it is 80 years since 17 June 1940, when the Soviet Union illegally occupied and annexed Latvia. On 8 May it is 75 years since the end of the Second World War in Europe and the national socialist capitalization of Germany, which, however, did not lead to the release of Latvia. Instead, Latvia was subject to the repeated occupation of other totalitarian powers - the Soviet Union. These are historical facts. By denying them and distorting them, the international community is being misled, the crimes committed by the Soviet totalitarian regime are being relativised and the international order is being threatened. Such action is unacceptable not only because of the memory of the victims of totalitarianism and the need for an objective explanation of history, but also because this way the Russian Federation is turning against the state continuity of Latvia - our constitutional foundations. As the successor of the rights and obligations of the former Soviet Union, the Russian Federation must acknowledge the fact of the occupation and illegal annexation of Latvia and reject politically motivated revisionism and the distortion of history. I call for my support for this draft communication to be presented to the international community today at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U145	Thank you. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U146	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Thank your colleagues for the draft decision prepared by the Saeima. And, of course, we need to outline a little bit of the context in which this draft decision is on the Saeima's agenda today. At the end of last year, Russian President Vladimir Putin expressed a very sharp criticism of the European Parliament resolution, denied once again the blame of the USSR for the cause of the Second World War, and tried to shift part of the responsibility for bringing this 20th century tragedy to Poland, a country that, along with the other ambitions of two totalitarian regimes in the Second World War, had broken down into ignorance. Last July, the so-called Baltic Free House was organized in Moscow, also in Riga. We even received congratulations from Russian officials, including the Ambassador, on 9 May. The denial of the occupation of the Baltic States is not only a rhetoric, but an official position of Russia as the legal heir of the USSR. At this cynicism and shameless attempt to rewrite history from Russia... Unfortunately... we are facing, and it is already customary. The composition of the words “rewrite of history”, which we are talking about in the context of this draft communication, is, ironically, an integral part of Russia’s political rhetoric. It is scattered as an accusation whenever someone dares to point out the criminal activities of the USSR. Since the collapse of the USSR, Russia has not been able to evaluate and condemn the totalitarian past of the USSR. On the contrary, attempts to condemn Communism are perceived as attempts to turn against Russia as a state. Just like during the USSR, today's historical issues in Russia are perceived as part of an ideological struggle. It is not for nothing in Russian national portal Russkie. org is a separate rubric “The battle for history”. History is perceived as a resource to be processed to create new values, new truths and beliefs. The unilateral, internationally unrecognised interpretation of Russian aggressively driven history is used as a tool to legitimise Russian military aggression in Ukraine. The case of Ukraine is an example that the current interpretation of Ukraine's history in Russia was first used in the information space in peace conditions for years to activate in 2014 already for military purposes. The Russian propaganda machine worked hard to try to position Euro-maiden demonstrations as a coup d'état organised by Western countries. In the occupied Crimea, Russia repeats the crimes committed in the Second World War by calling on the population of the occupied land to serve in its armed forces, in violation of the fourth Geneva Convention. There are attempts to “normalise” war crimes by distorting history. The Kremlin's controlled media are still regularly telling about fascist forces that threaten Russian and Russian security from different sides, and Moscow is being positioned as the only resistance to these fascism outbreaks. Heroic stories are driven, based on mythical, zero - liability, and factological, heroic history. Russia's efforts to drive its version of history must not be left unanswered, because, unfortunately, due to the complex historical events and the flow of interpretations of the everyday Russian information space, even in Latvia, there are enough people today who question well-established historical facts. It is about maintaining objective knowledge, a common understanding of our past. The inclusion of Latvia in the Soviet Union was illegal. It was an occupation that lasted for 50 years. We do not need to prove these facts to anyone. Our national succession cannot be called into question, and the way in which our history is treated does not depend in any way on Russia, because it is based on facts and not on a fictional, truth-free history. Since the restoration of independence, we have wanted to build a constructive, respectful and equal neighbourly relationship, but it is difficult to talk about mutual respect if one side denies today's reality and the way in which we came to it. Russia hopes that the international community will at some point tire out and simply accept both its led version of history and Russia's military aggression and expansion, and accept the Kremlin's version as a new reality. At a time when Russia is so aggressively trying to rewrite still alive history, wash its hands from any kind of history and restore its Messian consciousness of its place in the international environment, it is important to recall the seemingly well-known and true. Alternative history driven by the Kremlin should be treated in the same way as other frequently ridiculed conspiracy theories. Anti-historic distortion should be addressed in a targeted way, in the face of the facts. The history of the 20th century is difficult, and no country, guided by its political objectives, has the right to manipulate events in a targeted way, thus extending the painful teachings that we must never forget. Therefore, honourable Members, honourable Members, I call for support for the draft decision of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U147	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U148	Dear colleagues, On 1 January this year, when I saw the new fuel prices in the morning, my first idea was that Putin will soon be there! Because the Prime Minister of all past years, Kariņš, quite... told all Latvian citizens that no taxes will be levied. And then every Latvian citizen sees its new fuel prices in the morning of January 1, and he thinks... I guess I can't even tell you what he thinks because he... much of what he thinks - it was probably not in the state language, but even perhaps Putin. Well, it's clear what's going to happen. I need to call Putin's help. Somehow it has to be distracted. I must admit that, my fellow Members, I am surprised that today is 16 January: why are you holding on for so long, you have taken all this time? I guess you couldn't break up the National Union to put forward this resolution. Apparently even the National Association considered that lately, well, that salt... somehow too much so Putin if. It's very recently... I think Mr. Cole had a map... the resolution that was there... about Krim's performance, something like that. Well, then time came information about what was happening in the transit area, about the turnover of fallen cargoes, about the planned dismissal of employees on the railway track of Latvia. Well, here, you know, without Putin... Without Putin it is not possible! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “The history speaks!” ) And we... Colleagues, we understand all this. And we treat things with understanding. Now a few words about history, colleagues. The first point. As far as I understood, some are trying to create such a narrative, a story that it was the USSR... and that even more specifically the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was the one that led to the Second World War. In other words, if there were no Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, then there would be no Second World War either. So Hitler would simply say, "Oh, no Lebensraum in the east we don't need! Revenge France and England... Britain is defeating World War I - we do not need this either." And so on. And that's it! Everything would end then. You can, of course, try to make such a story, but it will only show something about... On intelligence, if. The second point. To understand history better, it is worth asking a question - what would it be if it were? If you really want to understand history. For example, what if the USSR did not squander the Baltic States? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col’s intermediate call.) Would the Baltic States simply live in peace to this day? Hitler Germany would refuse all its ambitions in the east, from Lebensraum Germans? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Iesalnieks: “Hitler was Stalin’s ally!” ) I think it would be naive to think so. What's the conclusion? What would happen? Would we speak today about German occupation? Either the Baltic States would voluntarily join Hitler Germany... and then become allies like Romania? And then, probably, we wouldn't even talk about this stage of history today, wouldn't we? We will, of course, never know the answer to these questions. But if you really want to understand, understand history, then ask such questions, I think it is very valuable, especially for small countries, to really understand history is very important. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col: “Tell me that there has been an occupation! From the pub!” ) But, well, as I said, I... we all understand perfectly that it is not about history, it is not about trying to understand history. We understand why what's happening here. In February, probably Latvia will be included in the so-called grey list. You're gonna need to call Putin's helper. The government will then start the elimination of the micro-enterprises tax - it will be necessary to call Putin's assistant again. Highly honourable members of the coalition! Ask yourself: what would you do without Putin? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. Mr. Coll: "You'd better ask your group!" ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U149	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U150	“Do you believe that the earth is turning?” said a dreadful grandfather in “the days of the Mayors”. Well, in this case, this end-of-life talk about the fact that the Hitler-Stalin Pact led to the Second World War, shows that (Intellence.) ... shows that there is a reluctance to assess that this Hitler-Stalin Pact has been unlawful. And the main point, I think, of the Saeima's resolution is that we say that the redistribution of Hitler-Stalin's world contributed to aggression against sovereign states and led to their occupation, annexation and destruction. This is prevention of the future in order to prevent aggression in the world from independent, sovereign states. Thus, to keep up with some kind of petrol price rises, these important legal matters are about the same as Nazi Germany said in 1939: “Well, let the Russians take it in the Baltics. For us, one echelon with fuel is more important for us to strengthen.” Let us examine precisely these legal consequences for the Hitler-Stalin Pact and make our position clear to the world in order to prevent violations of international law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U151	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U152	Dear President, Honourable Members! Listening to what the previous speaker, Mr Dombrovskis, said, it could be understood that the Soviet Union has nothing to do with triggering the Second World War. Let us remember that, after World War I, when there were strict restrictions on the worm, I think you know very well, Mr Dombrovskis, where German pilots were trained. In the Soviet Union, they were specially constructed for aerodromes where to train. Where did German tanks train? In the Soviet Union! Where did we train units of worm chemical weapons? In the Soviet Union! Why should a vurmacht and chemical weapons units train here? Because only the Soviet Union had enormous experience in the use of gas against the peaceful population - the civil war... The Red Army. Antonov, other farmers' uprisings... They were all poisoned by gases, because those farmers were hiding in the woods. Isaac Berg... According to Aleksandrs Solženicins, in his work “200 years together”, Isaac Bergs, head of Moscow’s economic division of the NKVD region, invented the first gas car in the world in 1937, so that people should not be driven to Lubjanka and they must shoot – but it is very burdensome... he invented that in vans carrying bread by means of gas pipes, the matter was resolved. When they take them to the landfill, they're all dead. Isaac Berg, the NKVD of Moscow. Several delegations from the German Gestapo arrived in the Soviet Union, where NKVD introduced the construction of concentration camps in the Soviet Union. Of course, there is no connection with the Soviet Union! But the most interesting events are the events of Latvia's history. So, on 17 June, we all know... But we do not know much about the fact that Semijon Tymoshenko, the People's Commissioner for Defence of the USSR, issued an order that had already been declared alarm in the Leningrad War Area at night from June 10 to 11, 1940. And the navy had to be surrounded by the ports of the Baltic States in preparation for the invasion, but the air force had to ditch in the neutral lane, beyond the borders of the Baltic States, striking any aircraft in the case of Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian governments trying to flee by plane to Sweden or Finland. On 12 January, the USSR loved the case. So, from the Soviet warship, the plane was fired... Tallinn-Helsinki was hit by a passenger plane “horrorly” and 12 passengers died. Which is interesting, in a row, if we were to start counting how many passenger planes have been hit by the USSR? This murder took place on 12 June. Maybe we should build a monument where it's standing... ‘for liberators’ is that monument? So I thought... I call for this resolution to be supported and for it to be interrupted by the flow of lies, and always at international meetings to remind the USSR of its criminal activity, where Germany was aroused under the Treaty of Friendship at that time, contrary to international agreements. And this is just one of some of the international treaties that the Soviet Union has always been warned about, just like the Budapest Agreement concerning Ukraine and others. But history is worth remembering that, when we enter into the next treaty, we would not be so naive and that we would not give silly illusions to such a system. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U153	Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U154	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, History may seem remote, out-of-date if we do not have a country next to us that is attacking its smallest neighbours, taking away territories... and if it did not motivate all of this with the restoration of historical justice. Putin is telling Poland today that it is guilty of the Second World War. Poland, which was attacked by Germany and attacked by the USSR, and Poles - tens of thousands! - was killed in Auschwitz and Katina. The Poles appear to be guilty themselves, and they themselves have caused the Second World War. Putin’s rhetoric is very much like that of Hitler in the 1930 ’ s, who also blamed the Jews for World War I. We know very well who followed this interpretation of history and where it led Germany and Europe. Since 2014, in Ukraine, in fact in the centre of Europe, Russia has killed 13 000 people and has based it on the fight against Ukrainian fascists, who must have been rescued first by Crimea and then by Eastern Ukraine. For five years now, the Russian propaganda machine has been making sure that bloodshed in Ukraine continues. Moscow creates hatred and reproduces lies, and lies about history there play one of the main roles. The Russian lies about history today can be measured by a specific number of victims. And this number will continue to grow more and more, and not only in Ukraine if the lies are not rebutted. Last week, the Polish Parliament adopted a resolution condemning the Kremlin's historical narrative. It was a reaction to Putin's speeches, including, where he called the Polish pre-war envoy an anti-Semitis... on his support for German Jewish resettlement plans in 1938. Before the Holocaust, indeed, Hitler's plan was to send the Jews out of the country, but this plan did not work because no one wanted to take them in. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. And Latvia was one of the world's rare countries that provided asylum from the German refugees. The Soviet Union, now justified by Putin, refused to do so and did not accept the Jews, and Putin, of course, does not now remember it. Instead, we hear from Moscow today that the Baltic States are to blame both in the Holocaust and in cooperation with Nazi Germany. I will not be surprised if we are about to hear similar accusations about Belarus as well. It is clear that lies about the Second World War and the role of the USSR in its Putin regime are used to legitimize its power to create enemies, fascists in the nearby border to fight them, mobilise Russians and continue to hold in power. If there's no fascists, they're figured out or paid to Sputnik who finds them. For Putin's regime, this is a matter of survival. All this could also be neglected today, unless Latvia, alongside Ukraine, was the object of this Putin game. And there are only three options in this situation. Whether you sing to the Kremlin, as many people do, unfortunately, in the Latvian segment too... Unfortunately; the second possibility - not to do anything, not to talk about history, so - does not give God! - do not divide society; and the third option is to resist the Kremlin's narratives and reprove lies. Poland and Ukraine are the last to go, and I have no doubt that our country must do the same. I call for support for the resolution. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U155	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Iesalnieks: “What will the embassy have written?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U156	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I do not want to talk about the tragic issues of history today, because they were condemned in good time at the democratically elected Congress of Members of the USSR, where the person from Latvia, Mavrik Wolfson, spoke, rebutted all speculations about the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. Then there were the declarations of the Supreme Council, several parliamentary declarations. But, unfortunately, at this moment, we are seeing a rather conjunctural document that does not have a productive part. I do not see concrete conclusions from the proposal on what should be done by the state of Latvia, what should be done by the Saeima. Perhaps with this declaration you want to increase subsidies for Latvian historians in order to increase the number of books for doctoral students to work in archives. I have a specific researcher, let's say, experience, and I can only see in archives an old... Let's say that... old people (who study their ancestors’ racial records) rather than students or doctoral students. There is no transmission of history on television in Latvia. Unfortunately, we also do not have books that are acceptable to a wide audience. The books published in Latvia have a very small print run and are very expensive. No one, let's say that, can't afford it from students. If there is such a wish for Members to talk about historical issues, please do so in some sub-committee which, let us say so, can be established within the framework of the Foreign Affairs Commission. And I would also be happy to be there. But I do think that this issue is not worth the discussion at the Saeima sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U157	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U158	Yes, colleagues! Thank you to Mr Kirštein for... No, your erudition... I really have great respect for all this. But first of all, I didn't say... to say that the USSR had absolutely no role in all the events that were the Second World War. I think it would not be possible to say anything like that about any of the big players. The same Britain, France... Well, though, there have been participants in what happened to Czechoslovakia even before the Mo l otova-Ribbentrop Pact, have you? And if you'd like to start, let's say, argue with them, so say... who and how to train and who has helped, then you should be prepared to be consistent and, for example... Well, let's take quite recent events. For example, what is happening now in the Middle East and Afghanistan. So let's tell you who taught all or a lot of these people? Well, it was the United States itself, which... What are you... which trained all those who then fought and who created instability in the Middle East... Now go to the end and present the resolutions absolutely for every such case in history - who has trained, helped and then caused. You can do that. I'm just saying, be consistent! Then go against all those who somehow participated in something, helped, and so forth. Go on, colleagues! You're... The question is, what do you really do, and what do you want to achieve? Because I see here quite a lot of understanding of history (if it can be called understanding), which is something like this: “Well, we, so to speak, a small country, we live here, no one, so to speak, don’t interfere. There's a big dragon here... a large country. We were occupied. Why, how? We didn't really understand." Well, this, of course, can capture history. But if you perceive it like that and continue to perceive it, then... You didn't really understand what was happening in the world. And that means it's probably going to happen again. Because, as I said... because it means that you didn't understand anything about the patterns, motives and so on of the superpowers. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaistov: “Vjačeslav, what will happen again? Are you a threat to occupation?’ ) But most importantly, colleagues. You're... Dear Coalition, you're now... do you have no other problems in the country? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Zakaistov: "What exactly will happen?" ) you have a transit sector at the threshold of disappearance. What are you doing? You're talking here about who... on historical interpretations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col: “Vjačeslav, you are pathetic!” ) It is truly deplorable! ( Milestones.) But the good news is that everything that is happening in the country is now the responsibility of the ruling coalition. And if you think you can call Putin (Interior: “You have called yourself!” )... Well, you can do it every day - adopt a resolution... that you will be able to solve, with this, the objective and very serious problems that exist in the country - then, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U159	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U160	Dear colleagues, It seemed as if we were learning something new about Vladimir Putin’s view of the Second World War or, to say, about the Soviet Union as such. And we know that, in his view, the greatest geopolitical disaster in the 20th century is the collapse of the USSR. After all, every time we hear the Russian anthem, those of my generations and my parents know what this melody has come from. What's so new here? Well, I think absolutely nothing. We can adopt a resolution on such a note at every parliamentary sitting. And it would have an absolute basis, wouldn't it? Just -- would that make sense? And I'd ask you to think about one thing. We will certainly not change Putin, but no regime or power is eternal. We should think more about how we address the democratic people of Russia. After all, the same people who destroyed the USSR in August 1991. They were to a large extent. That's great! And we also became an independent state. And every time... Whatever the Russian leader is at the moment... When we attack Russia or say something about Russia, when we think about Putin, we say something about them all. And that is, of course, a more difficult task. But it was just such a rhetorical remark. I'm mostly... Why did I get up... Is that so? I understand that we accept this statement as... Well, in a more context with that... So I think there's innovation from Vladimir Putin's side - it's about Poland's role there... I had never heard that: this is the turning point. Otherwise, I had heard all kinds of things, this one, no. Well, we are in some way in favour of Poland at the moment, if you can say so. What am I absolutely “for”? Poland needs to be supported, and we all need to see Poland as, in my opinion, the largest ally, in particular ours, the Baltic and Latvia, from all circumstances, especially security conditions. Because it's quite clear that if we don't give God in the end, once the geopolitical world is darkened, then I'd say that Poland is the first country to count on... not only on notifications, but also on practical action. Finland is probably the second. These are the countries that have fought for their independence, and we know what they have fought. Our defence capabilities should be geared towards this cooperation. I am not sure that the big oncules in NATO will all come to our aid. But for the fact that Poland and Finland are in war - definitely. Poland's position on the Ukrainian issue, among other things, was, I think, one of the great drivers why this military activity perhaps stopped in Donbass, rather than went further. So it's okay! But what did I want, most importantly, to say? If we want to... and we do the right thing to support Poland, so what we have to do is not the main thing we have to do... about Vladimir Putin's statements. Forgiveness, the Poles will deal with it themselves, but rather we should say... if we are in favour, we are in favour of much more important issues where Poland needs our support. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Coll: “It’s not just about Poland!” ) At a time when the old countries of the European Union are trying to impose sanctions on Poland for its independent policy - this would be the moment where we, as a country, should defend Poland from the first to the last day. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Coll: “We are doing this, too!” ) I do not know what it is “we” but (Dep. R. Kols: Commission on European Affairs )... Yeah, yeah, but we're all the countries. When Latvia defends Poland where it really matters to Poland, I think that then we will have done something. Today we are making another statement. I will vote in favour, but I would call for real-politicalism and for things to be done where we can do it, rather than just speaking out loud once again and expressing our resolutions on the well-known Vladimir Putin and his interpretation of the Second World War and the Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U161	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U162	Dear Saeima! Sometimes I wonder that it is in Riga that the NATO Centre of Excellence for Strategic Communication is located, which must act against various hybrid war threats, information threats, if we can even hear the Narratives of the Kremlin from the parliamentary tribunal better than from Russian television channels. Well, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis' speech is really something that can be printed in books, translated into English and sent out with comments to the whole world. One by one, one by one! Let us not talk about history, as a result of which we will be able to export sprat, better transit traffic and cheaper fuel. Let us not talk about history, because natural and American - these are fat, they are doing something in other countries. And such phrases, yes, it's pathetic to hear from our former education... economy also time... Minister. Indeed, I call for this draft decision to be adopted. Of course, this will not solve the problem that Russia is trying to change history on a regular basis... How it happened in World War II. This will not change the fact that Russia will continue to be a deplorable cowardly country and will not be held accountable for the past. If we really look at the work done by the totalitarian regime research commission, which also calculated the losses caused by the totalitarian regime to the state of Latvia, then believe me, what asked this rhetorical question - but what would have happened to Latvia? We would now live a lot, much better than the Finnish. We would probably live much better than the Danes and Swedes. Go, SAVE, to the Russian Embassy, where you like to go regularly, and tell us that they are paying us these billions in compensation for our citizens, our country. But you are too pathetic to do that.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U163	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U164	Dear Bureau! Colleagues! We have all read such books as Haxley’s “The Wonderful New World” and Orwell’s “1984”. You know how history was rewritten there, remember? Just a page or half a page, or one word was scratched and a word corresponding to the political situation was written instead of the word. And the same Putin did a month ago, attacking Poland: deleted the word “RSS” and covered it with another word – “Poland”... Thus, the Second World War was caused by Nazi Germany and Poland. Clear and bright: it's an attack, it's a complete rewriting of history! And that means that future generations will have to read it in Russia, and there are also people in Europe who receive this propaganda. And next generation will not read that the USSR and Germany started the Second World War, but will read: “Oh, it was Poland! And Poland not only started the war, but also caused the Holocaust.” You don't have to react? Well, of course, we need to react! America reacted... First, Germany reacted, first, and Israel responded. Estonia, Lithuania responded. And now it's our turn, and we say it in our own way. Poland is waiting for solidarity. This is our neighbour. And they look today as we vote. Let's vote 'for'! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U165	The name to Member Richard Cole for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U166	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Yes, I am not surprised by the rhetoric that comes, not to mention history. And many ask the question: ‘Why are we talking about this now?’ I should take it every week! You know, this year... It is the 80th anniversary, which marks the darkest page of our history - occupation. 80 years old! This year... 75 years have passed since the end of World War II. This year is a year to talk about the history of the 20th century, especially when attempts are made to modify it, manipulate it, revise it, redefined it. On the contrary, it is necessary to point out the facts, the fixed facts, the recognised violations of the law, which are still being investigated by historians and come up with various opinions, both on the crimes committed by the Soviet authorities and on the crimes committed by Nazi Germany. And that's all... It's getting... in general, for the Revenants and for the Auditionism... And it's now... Mr. Schmidt says: "What do we put it into Putin and do we react? He talks like this from time to time.” You see, there's a trendy ambition. If Mr. Schmidt didn't hear, I said in my address that last year... The innovations Putin introduces in his policy - the cold of Tallinn's release, the cold of Vilnius' release, the cold of Riga's release. It's something new, it's a new ingenuity, because you understand that these classic propaganda techniques really don't work, we need to look for new, attractive formats to distort history. And maybe the target audience is not us who were born during the occupation, but it is the new generation, which maybe... has not felt on their skin the terror that the Soviets have implemented. And that's why we need to disprove these false, distorted facts at any time. So I am really calling, colleagues, for your support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U167	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U168	Colleagues! Knowledge of history is extremely necessary for any politician for one purpose: not to repeat the mistakes that were in history. Today we are starting a debate not about politics. We are talking about a policy approach from a historical perspective. We are talking today about condemning or not condemning, about evaluation. I don't think that's a question for the Saeima. Because it is true that historians must try to explain the facts of their history to each other, also trying to make recommendations to politicians - I repeat - with the aim of not repeating these mistakes. That's the point one. Two points. If we start studying history and talking about the way history is treated, maybe we will start with Indriki's chronicle. Well, there's a lot of things in history that should be condemned, what should be supported, what should be valued. Maybe we're going to start dealing with current issues, though. We are trying to teach and punish Russia in a continuous and continuous way. We are somehow not responding to what is happening today. I do not remember that there would be any attempt in Parliament to condemn the crime of Saudi Arabia against Saudi Arabian journalist Hasogi, who had been killed in Istanbul. I do not remember in any way that we would have condemned the actions of the President of the United States, Trump, when he left the climate convention. We have not condemned the imposition of sanctions on allies in Europe, including the Republic of Latvia. We've got a lot of... that could be condemned. If the Foreign Affairs Commission were to deal with it, then it would have to work from morning to late evening, because there are so many cases in the world. Perhaps we will adopt today a resolution on the collapse of Ukraine's plane in Tehran, which would be right? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lejiņš: “We are talking about occupation in 1940!” ) I think that we are caught up with such games (Dep. A. Leiiņš: “It’s not a game!” ) of which neither Latvia nor the people of Latvia have any benefit or benefit. We're... I think you should stop being in your country. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U169	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U170	Colleagues! I think this is a classic example that there is at least once a resolution at each session of the Saeima so that the national association can sit down. And then such a resolution is put on the agenda, then climbs into a tributary of representatives of the National Union in a large number. Then they're waiting for him to climb the ladder of Member Cabanov, for example. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Interdependence of the trader.) They are waiting for Member Cabanov to apply. The National Association then usually recovers and its discussion is long and wide-ranging. And that is what we repeat over the course of this year by someone (interface.) ... During this year, it's been sometime... For the same, all the time the same on the circle. It is, of course, a pity that the representatives of the National Alliance did not go on the table today when it was necessary to offer solutions for Christine Missan - how to get him back. It is from the point of view of foreign policy... Mr. Cole, you're not in the podium. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Cols: ‘... In the Danish judicial system!’ ) It is also your responsibility as Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission, and you should also make suggestions on what to do in this matter. For this you don't have proposals, you don't have ideas about how to do it. You are talking about events of almost a hundred years old. 80 years ago there was war, we live in 2020. I would give you one good example, so that you can justify your future action. I think that the state of Latvia should clarify the views of all countries in the world about occupation, find out the views of the leaders of all countries in the world, including Kim Chenna, and then we could condemn one of the heads of state every week, either, I don't know, North Korea, or someone else. Then we would have something to talk about from the Saeima. I think that such resolutions do not, by their very nature, make any significant changes for the reason that all of us here are clear about the occupation of Latvia almost 100 years ago. We have expressed our views on this for a long time. And that's a state opinion.... There has been no clear change on both the part of national politicians and of Parliament, and it will not change either. That's why it's like a leier box... repeat from time to time - this will not change the situation. Another thing I want to say is if we look at history. Among other things, there were Swedish times in Latvia. They should also perhaps be the subject of a resolution. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col’s intermediate call.) What? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( J., Adamson’s intermediate call) There was also the sun’s battle. You could make a resolution about that, huh? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Coll: “Safe! ” ) I think... Why do I call those examples? I am calling those examples for the sake of showing that the adoption of such resolutions at each part-session of the Saeima is pointless. What does it do for the development of the country? Perhaps we should adopt a better resolution on what we will do for the welfare of the people of Latvia by 2050, how we will protect the citizens of the Republic of Latvia. We should not look all the time in the past, but look in the future. Perhaps to set a goal for Latvia - which we will be after 10, 20 and 30 years, what will be the aim of the Republic of Latvia as a country, what will be the goal of the coalition, what will be our achievements in science; to set specific goals in the field of education or health care. I think that spending time on it would be more valuable than talking about what is many times... known. And what will it change that you are going to get up on the platform at the next part-session, Mr Kola, and repeat that Latvia was occupied? Yeah, she was occupied. You're going to become a bigger patriot of this? From this, you will have defended more of the country that you will repeat a hundred more times what has been said long ago? As a young person, Mr. Kola, I think I would be interested in being a visionary, talking about the future, talking about how you see Latvia's foreign policy and Latvia's place in the world in the future, but we don't hear it from you. We also hear no economic offer from you. We are talking about Vladimir Putin. How long will Vladimir Putin be the President of Russia? I don't think it's been too long. In any case, you have the opportunity to be in politics much longer, so you should say a vision of the future as a power politician. I fully agree with what is written in the text of this document. The problem, however, is that we in the Saeima do not need to consider such a resolution at every part-session. Of this, our number in Latvia, the number of Latvians, the number of Latvians does not increase. That doesn't make our people richer. More people in Latvia do not return from it. This is the only game you play, so you have to have that love game with BIG. And that's all. ( Independence: “Look at the first signatory! ” ) And that is all! And I would invite you to stop this love game, sit down together and really make decisions together for our benefit, our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U171	I closed the debate. Colleagues, let's vote! Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the 80th anniversary of the occupation of the Republic of Latvia and the unacceptable distortion of the history of the Second World War”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. Decision adopted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “There’s no point in it!” ) On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr Ata Zakatistov from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr Ata Zakatistova from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Iveta Benhen-Beeken from the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Iveta Benhen-Beeken from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms. Iveta Benhen-Beeken to the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Ata Zakatistov to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Ata Zakatistova to the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Ata Zakaistov to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Ata Zakatistova to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The agenda of the sitting was examined. With regard to answering Members' questions today, I would like to inform you. Thus, as a Member, Zarina, Klementyeva, Kucina, Niconova, Orlova and Kabanov’s urgent question to the Minister for Economic Affairs ‘On the action of the Ministry of Economics regarding the establishment of benchmarks for OIC stations under the Electricity Market Act’. The written responses received are not satisfied, the Minister informs that it is not possible to attend the oral response because it is on a mission abroad. On the urgent question by Member Zariņa, Dombrovskis, Pimenova, Kucina, Švekova, Lochmeles-Lunova, Cilevičs and Liepaja Minister for Economic Affairs about the Ministry of Economics' actions regarding the results of the tests carried out by the public electricity trader. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. So today's answers to Members' questions do not take place. Members' questions have been received. Members Kabanovs, Dombrovskis, Ribakovs, Cilevičs and Agešins submitted the question “On monitoring the quality of education”, which we submit to the Minister of Education for reply. Members Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Gobzems and Krauze submitted the question “On construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal and a gas transmission pipeline from Skulte port to Inčukalns underground gas storage”, which is submitted to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development for reply. Members Gobzems, Augulis, Sprūde, Papaule, Stepanenko, Liepaja and Schmidt submitted a question about the protection of the rights of Latvian citizen Kristīne Misāne. Name for motivation to Member Aldim Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U172	Given that a year has passed since Kristīne Misan was arrested, we want to ask questions and get answers from the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan. In particular, what has been the action of the Minister, what has been the cooperation with the Prosecutor General's Office, what have been the solutions proposed by the Minister. Has the Minister initiated the discussion of this issue in the Council for the Judiciary, and what has been the outcome of such discussion. What have been the proposals and proposals made by the Minister of Justice during this year the Saeima to address this issue, and what, when and whom the Minister of Justice Bordāns and the Ministry of Justice have sent letters to protect the citizen of the Republic of Latvia Kristīne Misanis in 2019 and during this year's... during the whole of the year while she has been detained in Denmark?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U173	The question is referred to the Minister of Justice. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U174	Not registered: Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Klementjevs, Anita Muižniece, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Ivans Ribakovs, Ivars Zarins... Ribakov is.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-16-PT13-2033-U175	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
