ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! Good morning, at the beginning of the Saeima autumn session, and good morning, meeting in person! We are glad that we can finally meet each other. However, let us note that there are still precautions and measures to limit the virus. Therefore, I call on everyone to use face covers. When I lead the sitting, when I have to talk, I'll take this face off. The speaker in the platform can also remove the face cover because it is very difficult to talk to it. Colleagues, thank you for your understanding. Let's get to work. Let us begin the sitting of the Saeima on 3 September 2020. The President of Latvia Egil Levite's address is on the agenda. Let's see the President. Name to the President of Latvia Egil Levit.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I would like to put the word "sustainability" at the heart of my speech. Sustainability is the power of long existence, awareness of values and transmission to future generations. It is a targeted action to build a future where these values can exist. We cannot say that the future will come and then we will see what needs to be done. With today's will and forward-looking decisions we must create a future that is as favourable as possible to Latvian society. A good point of reference for sustainability objectives is 10 years. So 2030. It's not too far to let your dreams go, and it's not too close to get lost in tactics. Today, I want to discuss with you, honourable Members, a number of concrete work that I think is essential. Sustainable and smooth development of Latvia was the goal of the administrative territorial reform adopted by the Saeima spring session. Larger districts would have more economic capacity and thus better capacity to provide services. However, I would like to emphasise that the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations does not necessarily mean a successful reform. The law has left many of the important issues of the new municipal system to the regulation of other laws, and it is these accompanying laws that will determine whether the reform as a whole will or will not succeed. I would like to pay particular attention to two important aspects of the continuation of the reform. They concern ownership and democratic participation. I think that social tensions would have been much less acute in the process of discussing this reform if both were seen as part of the reform in good time. Honourable Members! I will shortly submit to you here, in the Saeima, a draft law on the historical lands of Latvia. The second paragraph of Section 3 of the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents provides for such a law. The aim of the draft law is to create a forward-looking state policy for preserving the diversity of Latvianism and the sustainable development of the cultural and historical environment. By strengthening ownership of local communities, local cultural spaces and historical Latvian countries, we strengthen our common national identity. I call for a sense of responsibility for our generation. If for future generations our cultural and historical environment will be available at least to the same extent as it is available to us today, then the aim of this law could be considered to be achieved. It is recognised that the Saeima has already decided on the right of the local community - the parish, the small town - to elect its own representatives democratically by adopting the Law on Administrative Areas and Populations. The feeling that the country is far away and has forgotten them must not arise in the late and small towns. It should be noted that elected representations cannot be replaced fully by various participatory mechanisms. They are all good, but they lack the most important thing. And above all, they lack democratic legitimacy, which can only be obtained through elections. The Saeima has commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to include this right of local communities in the law, and we all expect this task to be fulfilled. Honourable Members! The overall objective of the administrative reform is prosperity, roothance, participation. However, this will not be enough when it comes to the sustainability of the nation. We need a targeted and, I stress, concrete, verifiable policy on demographics and family policies. Eurostat's population projections for this decade (i.e. until 2030) are expected to decrease by 200,000, and by about half a million in the next 30 years ( 2050). So then there will be only 1.4 million people in Latvia. Estonia, on the other hand, expects that both 2030 and 2050 populations will remain more or less at current levels. We have ministries, departments and institutions that have some level of responsibility for family and children's affairs. However, demographic policy with us has so far not been seen as a consolidated policy with priority and appropriate funding. Family support policies are at the heart of the demographic policy, but they are, of course, broader. It also includes, for example, a tax policy focused on real relief for families with children, housing policy that has so far been neglected, an intelligent immigration policy and many other areas that are important for the generation of the people. Demography and family policy is a typical cross-sectoral policy, but it lacks effective cross-sectoral or so-called horizontal governance and also lacks politically responsible management, for which it is a priority in the first place, not in some fifth or tenth place. Estonia started its demographic and family policies several years ago, 10 years ago, and the results are visible today. The Estonian Government is composed of the Minister for Population Affairs (in particular the Minister), who monitors this country's political sustainability in such an important area as a whole. We also need to find an appropriate institutional solution. At the end of the spring session, I asked you, honourable Members, to draw attention to the fact that the increasingly complex world of the 21st century does not fit into the 19th century system of public administration with separate ministries responsible for the classic policy sectors, leaving outside a number of priority areas for a modern state requiring politically responsible leadership. Next to the demographic policy, another characteristic example of this deficit is the quality and security policy of the information space. Its sectors fall under the responsibility of several ministries, but none of them is a priority. For example, in the field of social media, no public policy can be seen, nor can it be seen. However, it is precisely how high or contaminated the information we use on a daily basis that affects how rational or, on the contrary, darkly our decisions are. I would like to welcome the fact that you honourable Members have turned to the public media, your agenda has a public media bill, and this should be adopted by the end of this year. These media are the central part of the information space. Their democratic responsibility, the professionalism of journalists and ethical principles must be such as to set quality standards for the rest of the media space. Society finances the media... public media to fulfil a certain obligation, unlike commercial media, and this obligation is, as stipulated in the draft law, to strengthen Latvia's democratic state system, sense of belonging to Latvia, Latvian identity, Latvian language, to promote understanding of Latvia as a legal, national state. However, it should also be borne in mind that the architecture of the public information space has changed significantly in the age of social networks. It has broken into many parallel “bubbles” and their inhabitants often have a subjective impression that it is their “bubble” that is the “nation” that is now making that point of view. In this context, public media still have a special role to play: to cover and integrate these fragmented 'bubbles' as far as possible. The draft law guarantees the independence of the public media, but not the independence from the performance of these duties. Therefore, when deciding on the draft law, I invite you to pay particular attention to two aspects. Firstly, to choose a model of the public media council that could reasonably formulate and represent public interests and that would enjoy the trust of both the public and public media journalists. Secondly, to ensure that the board, which the public has entrusted with representing its interests, has effective instruments to ensure that the public media actually fulfil their responsibilities, which I mentioned earlier, in a high-quality and responsible manner. In the context of the information space, I would also like to emphasise the responsibility of the State to support high-quality commercial media, including very important regional media. But I stress - to support the high-quality bodies, not some corrupt “sheftman” or representatives of the Kremlin's interests. (Applause) Colleagues! Another topical work is public e-government. It must also develop cross-sectoral policies, governance and the legal framework, i.e. integrated policies. At this moment's fragmentation hinders the development of Latvia as a modern country. A single national digital platform is a place where both the public and private sectors offer their services on a clear and secure basis. They must be compatible, user-friendly and easy to perceive, secure in terms of data protection and privacy. At the same time, we must not create a digital monster - subject to human technology. In particular, I want to highlight the problem of algorithms in both the public and private sectors. Wages are not a rule of law, and therefore they cannot determine what we can and cannot. Algorithms must not restrict the human rights and living opportunities within the meaning of the law to decide freely, to the unsupervised and to no one to account about their actions. The use of algorithms is not just a technical issue, but it is a central, political, legal and constitutional issue. And this will have to be discussed in the coming years to ensure that digital development does not limit people. Digitisation can be a means of improving the quality of life, but it can become a... also as a weapon that we turn to ourselves. This risky dimension of digitisation must be duly taken into account in the preparation of both eGovernment and other digital projects. For example, every public service must also be available on-site, especially in order to address non-standard issues. If anyone has an unusual problem... not that he is deadlocked, because such a problem is not intended... That is why innovative technical... legal solutions. I will not talk about technical solutions, but about legal solutions. For example, if someone unlawfully had access to personal data, the victim would automatically have to receive a report on it and a statutory automatic compensation. This would, of course, make these managers much, much more careful to use this type of instrument. Latvia on its way to the digital society and competition with other countries could stand out with not only technical solutions (and we have excellent - excellent! - programmers and excellent IT specialists, but also in particular with legal solutions that would not only be effective from a utilitarian point of view, but would also provide a person with his rights and individual discretion in the future. Honourable Members! The Saeima's agenda is the reform of higher education, which is important for the sustainability of Latvia as a modern country. The objective of the reform is to create an ecosystem of universities that is becoming a driver and catalyst for national growth by providing high-quality education to students, both in Europe and globally. It is an ecosystem that creates the knowledge of the needs of society in order to contribute directly to the growth of the Latvian economy, as well as to the spiritual and cultural development of society. At the same time, I would like to stress that universities must also be a place where a person can not only acquire technical knowledge and skills to become a useful labour force for the economy, but also to build and develop his personality and feel the joy of thinking. Universities should also be the givers of impulse to society to promote democracy and patriotism in Latvia. The horizon of higher education must be the preservation and development of our national culture, in the broadest sense of the word, and the Latvian language must also be the language of the 21st century. This reform of the state function of universities... The functions of this state reform of universities must not be forgotten and neglected. They must also be taken into account in the reform process. Honourable Members! It is extremely necessary to improve the quality of our legislation. I therefore call on you to continue the debate on the establishment of the Council of State. Its role would be to assess, before the adoption of the law, whether it is in the interest of the State’s sustainability and the legal and fundamental values contained in the Constitution. The legislator is always there, and it must be political. You cannot be unpolitical. But the law is usually a political compromise, and it is normal in democracy. The compromise is normal. However, if you find this political compromise in the appearance of the law, it may not always meet the criteria of the Constitutional Values and the sustainability of the State of Latvia - thus the common good. Therefore, the task of the Council of State would be to state on that basis, with weighted arguments. The final decision must, of course, be in the hands of the democratically legitimised Saeima, but the extent of the State's sustainability and constitutional values - and therefore of all the arguments of our common good - would increase significantly in the joint discussion with this kind of involvement of the State Council. This would significantly improve the quality of legislation and contribute to the development and sustainability of our country. Honourable Members! Finally... Now I want to talk to you... Some important priorities in our external and security policy. It is the active and competent foreign policy that is one of the cornerstones of the sustainability of Latvia. The visibility and influence of European and global policies strengthen our security. We need to set ambitious goals in order to influence the agenda of international institutions by our position. I would like to thank all the foreign policy makers for what has been done so far. Colleagues! Our moral duty is to support the non-violent opposition of Belarusian civil society, because the most fundamental principle of democracy - fair elections - has been violated. Our democratic convictions and our historical experience demand this. It was the common, clear and timely position taken by the Belarusians and Poland that put a camperton to the current common position of the European Union on what is going on in Belarus. The success of our foreign policy was the cross-border communication on "Inflammation" within the framework of the United Nations in the context of the Covid-19... signed by 130 countries of the world. In a recent phone conversation with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, he thanked me for this initiative and stressed that Latvia had demonstrated global leadership in combating disinformation, and, in view of our international expertise, expressed its wish for Latvia to continue playing an active role in this area. Honourable Members! This is just one example that indicates that our country is already sufficiently developed and that society is sufficiently mature so that we can make our contribution to the wider challenges. Latvia is committed to standing in the United Nations Security Council in 2025. It is the United Nations institution with the greatest influence and prestige. In order for Latvia to be elected to this council, we must convince 129 of the 193 countries of the world that they support us. Therefore, we need to define what the specific contribution of Latvia will be, which convinces these 129 countries - and one part probably does not know where Latvia is - to vote for us. This is a priority task not only for foreign policy makers, but also for the wider public, for the non-governmental sector. External and internal security must remain our priority. In this difficult situation, there must be no relaxation. In the area of defence, we need to continue the plans that have been undertaken, especially the procurement plans for strengthening our military capabilities. It would not be acceptable to reduce them by mechanically pointing to the decrease in gross domestic product this year as a result of the Covid-19. Latvia must also be involved immediately in planning the UN Alliance's further development. In June, Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg opened the NATO 2030 consultation process on the development of the Alliance. It is important for Latvia that the changes that will affect NATO in this decade strengthen our security. Latvia's vision needs to be developed, coordinated with regional partners and properly integrated into NATO's common strategic plans. The European Union, in an adequate response to the Covid-19 crisis, established the European Recovery Fund, but the uncoordinated and late action at the very beginning of the crisis shows that the European Union has insufficient institutional competence to deal with such situations. Latvia must raise the issue of the resilience of the European Union's crises and contribute to the integration of such capacities into the institutional mechanisms of the European Union. Among the countries of the European Union, we have been among the best not only in combating the pandemic, but also - which perhaps is less perceived in society - in terms of economic resilience. The economic downturn this year will not be as large as in most other countries of the European Union, and next year the Bank of Latvia expects GDP growth. Therefore, the additional funds that Latvia will have from the European Recovery Fund are a unique opportunity to invest them wisely and, at the same time, to reform our economy, to make it more environmentally friendly and to create a higher added value. This also means investing in science and innovation in particular. That is why the European Green Deal, the transition to a climate-friendly economic model, is a challenge for the government... which everyone must work more and more actively and involve society as a whole. Let us remember: this is the future economic model. The sooner we start to implement it, the better we do. Honourable Members! Our resolution today will be in the future. Our decisions must be wise and sustainable. You are waiting for a productive source of work. Good luck to you and all of us! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U3	Thank you to the President of Latvia. We are accompanied by the President of State on stand. Thank you also to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš for his participation in the Saeima sitting today. Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. Changes to the agenda of the Bureau meeting initially submitted. Members Dūritis, Steel, Baumane, Skride and Ples ask for changes to the agenda of the meeting and draft decision “On the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the international operation in Kosovo (KFOR) led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation” to be considered as the next speech by the President of Latvia Egil Levite. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft decision “On the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the international operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Kosovo (KFOR)”. Are you going to talk? Minister of Defence... Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U4	Dear Members, Congratulations on the opening of the autumn session. And after the President's speech, I may also keep this very aspect of security. In front of you is the decision to send one jewellery - about 150 Latvian soldiers - to Kosovo to ensure security in this country, as well as the training process for their armed forces. Our mission is essential from the point of view that, as we also know from Latvia's defence concept and all our security planning, Latvia's participation in international missions is also a significant contribution to our national security, because if we want good cooperation with our international partners in NATO, the European Union and the UN, then we must also show that we are sufficiently active in these organisations. Moreover, this region, the Balkans, is not only an unstable or potentially unstable region, but also one of those regions that stand as candidates and will continue to stand as candidates for membership of both the European Union and NATO. Consequently, we in the Ministry of Defence and government have decided to ask for and ask the support of the Saeima here in order to be able to send us to Kosovo next year. We already have experience in Kosovo. It is not the most insecure place (any participation in any mission, of course, is with some risks, but it is not the most insecure). Our membership has already been there for about nine years, from 1999 to about 2009. This time we will participate - we intend to participate - in this international mission with the troops of the United States. The same is very important in itself, because the United States is our strategic partner and, with the participation of the mission in Kosovo, we will be able not only to contribute to international security, but also to significantly improve our national cooperation capacities directly with the US army. So this is another very important point. I would also like to say that, by sending about 150 soldiers to Kosovo with our own security, with our own commanders... It is also, however, such a serious level for our armed forces, because we are improving, growing and sending this type of force to international missions, of course, not only to show our quality, but also to raise our quality. I invite you to support the Latvian National Armed Forces in this international mission and therefore - our cooperation with our allies, the promotion of security on the European continent and, of course, the promotion of security in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U5	Thank you to the Minister for Defence. Are Members willing to debate? Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the international operation in Kosovo (KFOR) led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. Decision adopted. I would also like to thank the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks, for his participation in today's meeting and for reporting on the draft decision. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic” presented by Member Pucena, Pugas, Nemiro, Zakatistova and Benhena-Beken be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Ēriks Pucens, a Member, has applied for this.”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U6	Hello, colleagues! I invite you to support and hand over to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”. The amendments provide for the exclusion of Article 15.1 of the Law, which provides that the head of the council and deputy manager receive a benefit upon retirement. In the audit report of the State Audit Office... In 2018, 21 municipalities have been audited and 15 municipalities have been found to pay... More than 300,000... Well, this is money that we can find internally and redistribute to other things, as indicated by the State Audit Office - GMI. So please support and hand over the draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U7	Thank you. ‘ Against” Ms Linda Liepiņa, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U8	That's the worry... It's not been to the Saeima house for so long! (Laughter) President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Members! Guests of this House! Media representatives are here today too... Indeed - today marks exactly 100 days since I had not had the opportunity to speak on behalf of 44,662 Latvian citizens - and specifically all my constituents - from the Saeima station. Perhaps we will once again talk about why it happened, but that is not what this story is about, and that is not what this bill is about. But, first of all, today, I would like to say that I will continue to respect my oath of a Member of the Saeima 667 days ago and to be accountable to my constituents. And it's about the particular bill. On behalf of my 44,662 voters, I ask you not to support a bill tabled by a deceased party. And please listen! I think most of you will understand me. I believe that neither I nor you, Members, at present have the moral right to vote in favour of anything presented by this group. If you were talking about political responsibility in words, then it would look exactly like this. Even if this bill is good... I have not read it myself, because it is this group that has tabled it... (Laughter) If it's good... you know yourself what mechanisms are still in place for someone else to submit the same thing, and then I may also support it, but not this time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U9	Mrs. Liepaja, please really talk about the bill...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U10	I'm talking. Yeah, I'm calling... So...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U11	... what you have not read. As you yourself have said, you have not read it. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U12	Mrs. Moorier! Mrs Mūrniece, the draft law can be supported, can not be supported... and can I speak against where I am not sure about the aims of the applicants, can I?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U13	Talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U14	Yeah, I'll talk. Thank you. I call on you to vote against this bill, because Eric Pucen has just called for a vote in favour of it. And it's so simple... it is so simple that you, the voter group, should have a mandate today instead of submitting draft laws. You all passed on your constituents on to the United Nations. That is why this draft law cannot be supported. I have to apologize for your betrayal to people. And, you know, I do it every day. Every sweet day! I hope I get in time. I call on you not to support the further progress of this draft law, just as I am calling Eric Pucene not to call me anymore...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U15	Mrs. Liepaja, please don't solve your relationship with Eric Pucen here from the pub. Talk about the bill. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U16	... until members of his political group have left the government of Unity.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U17	Dear colleagues, ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) I'm saying a second time. Please refer to the specific draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U18	Mrs. Moore! If you stop me, I...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U19	The instructions of the head of the meeting shall not be subject to discussion. Please call me! ( Insight: “Why didn’t you allow the talk to be finished... ?” ) We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government the status of the Member of the City Council and Council of the Republic of Lithuania's Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Status of a Member of the City Council and District Council, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 20, for - 7. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Judina, Čakša, Latkovska, Asheraden, Ikstena, Voika and other draft laws presented by the Ombudsman’s Law be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Legal Commission. ‘ Against” Ms Linda Liepiņa, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U20	Of course, I am sorry that you did not allow me to say, but I will have the opportunity to finish the speech elsewhere. But it's about this particular bill. I really could support it, but I will not. And I'll explain why. Exactly 12. In the family from the same pub, where I stand, Artus Neiminis, many of whom are 13. The Saeima voters today consider themselves a traitor, and gave such words to Gundars Many... From this same platform, he said to Mr. Many: “Your time will also come to an end!” I call on you not to vote in favour of this draft law, because, as Mr. Kaimiņš said, the time will soon end for Arvilas Asheraden, Ainars Latkovsky, Andrejs Judinas and also for Anda Chakša. And I am glad that the time of Gundars has not expired in Latvia's policy. And, you know, I'm surprised by what I've seen here in the Saeima at this time. Thank you. I will vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U21	Thank you. I hope that the next speaker will talk about the bill. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U22	Colleagues, I will allow you to talk about the bill. The draft law is ready for spring, but... You remember the situation with the Covid-19, you remember our work with territorial reform... And that is why we will only be able to decide today on the handing over of the draft law to the Commission. Of course, if it were to happen in the spring, maybe some would not... some would not take it critically. But now the essence of the bill. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešina’s synopsis.) We have a law that provides for the activities of the Ombudsman, determines how the Ombudsman works and also provides for the procedure for the approval of the Ombudsman, claims to the candidate... And next year we will have to vote... But if we look at this law, we will see that there are several shortcomings there. And this draft law is designed to correct these shortcomings. What imperfections am I talking about? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. As regards the requirements for the Ombudsman, it is intended to strengthen the fact that the Ombudsman must manage the Latvian language and at least two foreign languages. There's a requirement... Provision is made for the Ombudsman to hold a Master's degree. It is very strange that our law does not require the Ombudsman to have human rights expertise. And that is why we want to establish and make clear that the Ombudsman must have both experience and knowledge in this area. This is very important. How else?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Go on. As regards the order of appointment of the Ombudsman. At present, this can be done by five Members. We propose that at least 10 Members have this right. Why is this important? In order for Members to talk to one another about candidates, to discuss what can be led. Not that we have several... every five will put his own and then... It is very important that we debate this here in the Saeima. It is planned to strengthen the law that, before we vote in the Saeima sitting, candidates... candidatures will be examined by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. At the same time, we had a very good encounter with the NEPPP when we invited people, heard their views, their positions, and we very much want to have such discussions when we put forward the candidates for the Ombudsman's office. Now... Perhaps it is a surprise to you that the Ombudsman now has administrative immunity. He cannot be held liable. We want to abolish this order, and I think that is right. And the last one that might have attracted the most... the greatest attention. Our law states that the Ombudsman can be re-elected. Repeat, how many times? I understand there are experiences, other positions where people are elected even six times, and only death or pension can separate a person from the chair in which he sits. But is that good? We want to strengthen the normal requirement that a person can work for two consecutive terms. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: "How many are you in Parliament, Mr. Judine?" ) And I think that is very important and correct. Moreover, I ask you to note that a similar norm... A similar provision is intended to be introduced for other public officials. The draft law in the government is ready. However, it is important to give Members the opportunity to take up their current role as Ombudsman, regardless of any idea that the whole draft law is aimed at the existing Ombudsman. ( FROM a faction: “But it’s not? ” ) Because if we started working in spring, time would be enough. There's little time now. Consequently, I will submit to the second reading a proposal that will stipulate that the new rules - in respect of the two deadlines - will be in force after we have approved the Ombudsman. In particular, it will be possible to direct the existing Ombudsman. I think that this project is important, it is necessary, and I ask for support for it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Ombudsman” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Cases, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 22, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Arms” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” Ms Linda Liepiņa, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U24	Members! I'm sorry for my emotionality because... Such a beautiful, calm, balanced and understandable talk can be learned over many long years, as Mr. Judin showed excellently. I don't know how many years I'm going to be here, so I'm sorry I'm so emotional. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Moody’s transcript.) Arms movement is a very important thing. So it's just as important... Mr. Judin also spoke about this... is the quality of the draft laws regulating the movement of weapons. You're gonna agree with me, Mr. Judin, right? Yes, not once... Not once, since I am in the Saeima, I have seen how low-quality draft laws are brought from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Saeima. They are so low quality that the hair rises steep. And this is still happening. Let me just give you a few examples. For example, the draft budget law, which we are waiting for. Budget law, for example, works for people who have problems understanding such basic things as income and expenditure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U25	Mrs. Liepaja, please speak of the specific draft law. On the draft law ‘Amendment to the Arms Movement Law’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U26	I am talking about problems with quality, with the quality of the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U27	On the particular draft law!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U28	Yeah, about the particular bill. I am referring to the quality of the draft law in question, with reference to other examples. Is this forbidden? Is that forbidden, Mrs. Moorier? ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U29	Don't talk to the grass! Keep talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U30	I talked to the Speaker of the Saeima. Is it forbidden for me to talk to you as well? (Interface: “No, not prohibited!”) ) Charming! So I give examples of the quality of the laws in general, how they are prepared and how they are brought to the Saeima. And you will agree with me that you have at least one draft law... What's happened to it... They are so low in quality that those people who, for example, have been doing business understand that it is madness. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Motion of the intersaxes.) You, Mr Judine, will not be the one to whom I will take private courses in public language. And it's because you're from Unity. So at the end, I call... Ended (Interims.) I call for a vote against this draft law. To be clear: I have come to the conclusion that the government under the leadership of Unity is unable to bring to the Saeima any law of national importance... quality. And that is why I have decided to vote against any law that will be brought to the Saeima under the leadership of Mr Kariņš. Thank you for your attention. ‘ Against’!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U31	Okay, thank you to the speaker. Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Arms” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “It comes from the air? ” ) There are no objections. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Public Prosecutors’ Service Pensions Law” be submitted to the Commission of Social Affairs and Labour by stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Service of Emergency Medical Care for Employees involved in the Provision of Emergency Medical Assistance” be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service Pensions” be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Military Persons” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Diplom Service Pensions” be submitted to the Foreign Affairs Commission, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On service pensions for employees of the Ministry of the Interior with special service grades” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention, as well as the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, as well as the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible, “Amendments to the retirement pensions of professional orchestras, choirs, concert organisations, theatres and circus artists and to the ballet artists for creative work”. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law of the Gauja National Park” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Second Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and Their Managers” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance” be referred to the Foreign Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Kola, Latkovska, Juša, Feldman, Dzintars, Znotiņš and other submitted draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” Ms Linda Liepiņa, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U32	Dear President of the Saeima. Members! This will be an absolutely different 'no' vote, and I will explain. I would very much like this draft law to result in this vote... This draft law should be a step forward in the Saeima and so that we can really debate and discuss it properly, because the only thing that prevents me from voting in favour right now is my 15 years of experience in the media and communication sector. But if you can convince me that I am wrong, I could also vote in favour at third reading because, in fact, this (for what I say, "The National Association - the hat off!" )... this has always been your theme. You have always stood firm in that, and that is also right. I think - not only about this, but about language issues in general, because in Latvia people have to speak Latvian from kindergarten, from childhood. There is only one thing I would like to mention specifically and which is also based on my experience, bitter and very sad experience. And I have to talk about this party again... I won't name it. A language in the campaign of pre-election doesn't matter at all when you break your spine. Then you are ready to invest huge amounts for Members... I apologize to the voters again to promise something. If you have betrayed your constituents once, no language will help there, no money. Everything that's left behind is just a bitter memory of the halava, even though everything could have ended differently. I apologise for the word ‘halava’. I'm looking for how it translates... There is no such translation in Latvian. I'm so sorry. ( From the NA fraction: “Sucene! ” ) Zucene? Richard, thank you. So to be absolutely accurate. If you have betrayed your constituents, neither language nor money will help, there will be only bitter memories of the couch, even though everything could have been different. One of my great colleagues said: “You can shit call a pie, but the taste won’t change.” And you can call your new party, Mr Zakatistov, what you want, but you will at the end of their pies. I call for a 'no' vote, but I will be in favour of the debate... very constructive. I call on everyone to respect their constituents, to be honest first and foremost against themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U33	“A Member has applied to speak about” Rihards Kols.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U34	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Let me start with a small reminder to really clarify the context for these amendments. Latvia, like most European countries, is a national state, and through the framework of this national state, the sustainability of Latvian people's identity and culture through centuries is strengthened. The Latvian language is an integral part of our identity. It is not without constitutional protection. Latvian as the state language is the language of all Latvian participation and interaction. Through language we build our culture, understand history and traditions, and define our own values and global understanding. Do not strengthen Latvian as the only state language would mean slowly destroying ourselves, as we define ourselves. Therefore, before some, perhaps later commenting, simply reacting to the most dramatic scenarios and invent the beautiful epithets of why these amendments are bad - think! And think everyone! The status of the state language is not simply a clear or targeted burden for anyone who does not know the Latvian language. Yes, there are people living in Latvia whose mother tongue is not Latvian, who may use another minority language on a daily basis. People of different nations and cultures live in Latvia, communicate, cooperate with each other and engage in joint creative and professional activities. And it really is a value in itself. In all this vast diversity, the national language is at the highest level in the language hierarchy. Speak and speak in all kinds of languages, but the state language must be (The Head of the Seimas knocks down with a hammer.) for the single and real communication of the public... language between Latvian residents. The campaigning of elections in a foreign language, which, in fact, has the effect of realising languages that are even more parallel to the communication with the public, does not lead to the creation of either a community or a single society in the implementation of such fundamental processes and rights as elections. On the contrary, with the increase in budget funding for political parties, it will be agreed that the taxpayers' funds paid for activities which are in fact contrary to the spirit of the State Language Law. The story is also about self-esteem and respect for Latvia and its society. The election campaign period is the time when parties, through posters, booklets, newspapers and TV clips, inform the public about their political offer, programme, goals, directions of action, so that it would invite voters to vote in favour of this force, that is, to elect this political force in the state-building institutions: the Legislator Saeima or the executive authority. A democratic, judicial state shall have the right to require persons holding public office to be loyal to the State and, in particular, to the constitutional principles on which it is based. One of them is Latvian. I do not know what to think of those who lack even so little respect for the language of our country to promote it. There is no even little respect for Latvian society as a whole to address it in our common language. Then you even have to ask: how do these candidates imagine: what kind of country are they applying for? Because today in Latvia it cannot be possible for a Latvian citizen, a voter, not knowing a foreign language, to learn about the offer of a political party. In the interests of security, I would remind you once again - no, no, no one is trying, nor does he want to ban every politician and member of society from communicating in the language that they like, which can be... not to be Latvian either. The initiative is neither targeted nor negative, nor otherwise bad, as some have already liked to call it public space. The status of the Latvian language as a state language does not exist in itself. We also strengthen this status in everyday life through law. Because, too... We will not deceive ourselves that, in today's global world, the Latvian language will continue to exist stablely in Latvia without our care, principle decisions and wise, responsible actions. Well, it won't! I call on everyone to support the referral of the draft law to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. ( A circle between the UK and the NA fraction.) On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The decision ‘On the appointment of Natalia Saratov as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U36	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 August this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Natalia Saratov as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Natalya Saratov to be a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U37	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Natalya Saratov as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The decision ‘On the appointment of the Līga Supe as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U38	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 August this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of the Līga Supe as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to appoint Līga Supi as a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U39	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of the Līga Supe as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the appointment of Zane Aldiņa as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U40	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 August this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Zane Aldiņa as a judge of a district (city) court” was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Zanis Aldiņš to appoint a judge of district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of Zane Aldiņa as a judge of district (city) court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Inese Kalvane is a member of the Council of the State Audit Office and is a member of the State Audit Office of the Republic of Lithuania. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U42	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 20 August this year, the draft decision “On re-approval of Inese Kalvane as a member of the State Audit Council” was reviewed. The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia approved Inese Kalvani as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office at its meeting on 8 September 2016. According to Section 27(1) of the State Audit Office Law, the members of the Council of the State Audit Office shall be approved by the Saeima for a period of four years on the recommendation of the Auditor General. The second paragraph of that Article provides that the members of the Council of the State Audit Office may be reinstated but not more than two consecutive terms. When carrying out the duties of a member of the State Audit Council, Director of the First Audit Department of the State Audit Office, Inese Kalvāne has proved to be a professional, responsible high-level specialist with good organisational skills, who is able to define problems of the sector and find solutions for the area to be audited both from the point of view of legal acts and from the point of view of financial management. Inese Kalvāne has the experience of the manager, experience in evaluating the establishment and operation of the institution's internal control system, financial management, organization of internal audits, development of strategic plans, organization of international cooperation. The professional knowledge and experience of Inese Kalvane is appropriate to successfully perform the duties of a member of the State Audit Council. The members of the Legal Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Inese Kalvanis to reaffirm his membership of the State Audit Council on 8 September 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U43	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On re-approval of Inese Kalvane as a member of the State Audit Council”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U44	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Today we are looking at the Education Law so... Draft Law Amending the Law on Education (No. 752/Lp13). I would remind you of what these amendments are about. These amendments are in favour of changing the procedure for approving the guidelines for the development of education. So these amendments are driven by the Education, Culture and Science Commission and we have received two proposals for the second, final, reading. 1. - Julia Stepanenko's proposal. It is planned to change the pre-determined order in which we approve these guidelines for the development of education.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U45	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U46	Dear colleagues, I would add, however, that the order has not yet been changed. There are currently arrangements in place which have also been approved 12. The Saeima and which was still valid 12 years ago. The Saeima had confirmed it with minor changes... 12. During the Saeima. Guidelines approved by the Saeima are currently in force. And what is going on now is the guidelines for the years to come, which should be approved by the Saeima by the end of the year. But given that Parliament itself, Parliament, has conceived that the mind is too short to participate in the approval of the guidelines, it has itself refused... At present, they want to refuse to approve the guidelines themselves. What is happening at the moment is, of course, to reduce the role of Parliament in all areas, especially in an area as important as education. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science itself has encouraged us to give up this privilege - to approve these guidelines. Yes, I understand that, at the moment, the new regime that will be envisaged is to approve the guidelines in the Commission, but its guidelines will also come to the Ministry of Education and Science, and the Ministry of Education and Science will be able to decide otherwise. My proposal. My proposal states that the Education, Culture and Science Commission, on receipt of a draft of the guidelines from the Ministry of Education and Science, proposes its own amendments, in cooperation with all Members of the Saeima, in cooperation with the Legal Bureau and in the form of proposals that then come to the Ministry of Education and Science, and it approves these proposals without amendment. This would be right and logical in a democratic state, as Parliament is the supreme decision-making power and executive power is the executive power that executes Parliament's instructions. But what Members want to incorporate in this draft law is that the Education, Culture and Science Commission only has, well... This may be the power of the auditor. No more, no less. And... But in fact, when looking at the work of Parliament in recent months, and also perhaps in recent weeks, when looking at what proposals have been put forward in the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Education", it must be said that perhaps it is not so bad at all; perhaps it is very good for Parliament to take a very self-critical view that this is indeed the extent to which the Saeima itself understands that none of the education guidelines can be amended. It is very right that you, colleagues, are so self-critical because, for example, one of the proposals that... on which we are about to work, there is a proposal from the Youth Unity Trial Trust that morality is just below the waistline and nothing more. That is how you, colleagues, understand these words, and that is how you understand the values. And indeed, it may not be necessary for such Members to work on the guidelines, because the Ministry of Education and Science has been working with officials who, for years, have demonstrated with their experience that they still understand something from education. I was naively hoping that, however, the elected Members of Parliament represent the will of the people and understand the needs and problems of society. But today, following the attitude of the Speaker of the Saeima towards some of the speakers, to our colleagues, I realized that you are no longer the President of the people. You just buy voters' voices with party funding and go on smiling. So, colleagues, I will, of course, vote in favour of Parliament having such a right. But you know better that you don't understand anything from the education guidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U47	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U48	Good afternoon, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Hello, colleagues! I will refer both to this proposal and to the next one, Mr Pimenova. Because in essence they are about the same thing. What Jūlija Stepanenko said about, so whether the Saeima should approve the education guidelines for the next seven-year period, or whether the Cabinet is doing so. So my vision is as follows. Like the members of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science for a long time... We remember the problems we experienced last time, approving these educational guidelines, because the problem was that the process was too heavy to change something in those guidelines in a situation where they had already passed through the Cabinet of Ministers and had reached the Saeima for approval. Taking into account the complexity of the process and the fact that in Latvia, however, the public administration is built in such a way that we have not too many, but there are sectoral ministries (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) - we have a specific cultural Ministry of the Sector, we have a specific Ministry of Education and Science of the Sector - then these ministries of the Sectors are, however, fully responsible both for policy-making and for the implementation of policy, and to take responsibility for policy-making from the Ministry itself, in my view, is wrong. It is therefore necessary to allow the Ministry of Education and Science to propose these guidelines, but the Saeima is a supervisor. If, as political observers, something seems unacceptable to us, we should be able to ask, at a sufficiently early stage of the development of these guidelines, for the elements of the guidelines which are not acceptable to the majority of the Saeima. This option, which is now incorporated into the draft law, that this supervisor is a commission of education, culture and science, and I think it is an acceptable option, but the situation may differ from one another. If the guidelines that come to the Saeima are acceptable to the majority of Members of the Saeima and do not require a very wide-ranging change (if only editorial adjustments or adjustments in individual accents are needed), this is the same situation. The second situation is where, by its very nature, the majority of the Saeima is saying that such guidelines are not satisfactory to us; we want to have a number of different options. And that's the option that's gone through... In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science for second reading, essentially does not provide this additional assurance... additional security in a situation where the document entered into the Saeima is too poor. And this really is about these two proposals - Jūlia Stepanenko and Igor Pimenov's proposal - where both are the solution to this situation. But, in my view, what Igor Pimenov and what is proposal 2 are more flexible, because it provides that the Saeima, when receiving the document and deciding on the transfer to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, can decide whether it is really solely the responsibility of the Education, Culture and Science Commission or, in view of the quality of the documents that it is currently the case, the Saeima reserves the right to decide on the whole of the Saeima. That is why I will abstain in my vote on the proposal from Jūlia Stepanenko, but will support Igora Pimenova's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U49	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U50	Hello, colleagues! As I longed for this tribunal and the breath of Mrs. Mourniece in her armpit. This proposal on education guidelines is, in fact, very difficult, because choosing to entrust education to Šuplinska in the Ministry of Education and Science or to Members in the Saeima, who do not know how to wear masks today... For example, Oyars Kalniņš... (Applause) He's... he arrives in a snowboard mask, but realizes that he is in Parliament, and his mask is removed. Whether Arvil Asheraden is using that mask during the President's speech, he finally realizes that he can't breathe, and that he can't breathe. Anda Chaksh, just like...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U51	Please address the specific proposal, Mr Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U52	And so you feel that something is wrong with this education, not in the Saeima, nor in the Ministry of Education and Science. Parents also feel that education is not right. They don't know how their children go to school, they don't know if they can get them in or out of school, and then they're gonna get them in there, and then in the end they all hug together. The problem is that we will now red tape from the Saeima to the Ministry of Education and Science at Šuplinska, which does not understand from education anything and only understands from Pandora's charges. The problem is that we should talk today about the future of our children, how they will learn, how they will go to school, how we will improve education, not deal with foolishness. I call on all those people who are here in the hall - remember that you have, honourable Members, like Egil Levit, a diplomatic passport, and stop getting around with those masks here - put, pull, put, pull... Well, it also shows your education! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U53	This debate really shows education. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa and dep. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate names.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U54	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, I wanted to add that we... that an active debate was held within the Education, Culture and Science Commission on how to involve members of both the Commission and the Saeima more actively. We tried to find the best compromises, and at an early stage members of the Education, Culture and Science Commission have the opportunity to participate in the development of these guidelines. At least four public consultations have also taken place. The deadline for submitting proposals has been over a month. So enough involvement has been ensured. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem has left the drug. Sub-words: Aldi! ) Please see the result. For - 21, for - 56, for - 7. The proposal is not supported. Colleagues, we will continue to work on the next proposal after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague, Sergey Dolgopolov, and we welcome him! (Applause) Name for the statement to Member Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U56	Dear colleagues, Budget and financial (tax) commission meeting...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U57	But you can't hear... Colleagues, (The head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) attention to the announcement!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U58	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission meeting in e-environment in five minutes. ( Interface: “Why in e-environment?” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U59	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U60	Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Gundars Dauge, Aldis Gobzems... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I am!” ) and, Artuss Neighbours... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: ‘Yes!’ ) and, Andris Kazinovskis... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kazinovskis: “Ir!” ) and, Alexander Kirštein... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kirštein: ‘Ir!’ ) and, Armands Krauze... “ I am, ” he said, “and I am! ” ) and Andris Skride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U61	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U62	Honourable Members! Please take a seat in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U63	Yeah, colleagues. We reached proposal 2. So two. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. Provision is made for the Saeima to decide differently, so not only to strengthen these guidelines through the Education, Culture and Science Commission, but also to vote that they go back to the Saeima and are viewed in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U64	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U65	Hello, dear colleagues! I congratulate you on the beginning of the autumn session. So let me remind you that the salt of the draft law currently under consideration is a change in the procedure for approving the guidelines for education development. The current regulation states that the Cabinet of Ministers shall draw up and submit these guidelines as a single state education policy and strategy for seven years to the Saeima for approval. This takes place in full compliance with the policy-making recommendation recommended by the Coordination Centre of the Reconnaissance, i.e. to approve the programming document at the level of the public administration competent to deal with the issues covered by the document. Depending on the level of approval of the document in question, it shall be binding on all the institutions and officials involved in the implementation of the document. The planning document approved by the municipality shall be binding on the relevant municipality and its subordinate institutions in its administrative territory. The planning document approved at the Cabinet of Ministers shall be binding on all state administration institutions subordinate to the Cabinet of Ministers. The planning document approved by the household shall be binding on all public direct, secondary and derived administrations. A good example of such a programming document approved by the Saeima is guidelines for the development of education, which are binding on municipalities and universities. On the other hand, the draft law on education development guidelines shifts approval from Saeima to the Cabinet of Ministers, and it coincides that the Ministry of Government drafts the planning document binding to municipalities, as well as the government itself confirms it, on the way receiving the acceptance of the Saeima Commission. Will Members who are not members of the Commission be invited to discuss the draft document - not explained. Under what procedure Members will learn about the draft and will be involved in its discussion and submission of proposals - not explained. Member Stepanenko's proposal to articulate the duties of the committee regarding the participation of members in the discussion of the project has just been rejected by the Saeima, therefore the Saeima's control over the activities of the government is effectively prevented by sealing the document received from the Ministry of Education and Science. With my proposal, I reserve the opportunity for the Saeima to choose the procedure for adopting guidelines for the development of education, namely the Saeima itself to decide on the adoption of guidelines for the development of education or to delegate it to a commission, as has already been decided at first reading. The precedent of such a choice... This precedent is already present in parliamentary procedures. I would remind you that in the parliamentary roll, in section VII1 ‘The Parliament’s participation in European Union affairs’ (The Head of the sitting was knocked down by a hammer.) stated that ‘The Saeima shall exercise its participation in matters of the European Union through the Commission of European Affairs, unless the Saeima decides otherwise’. My proposal verbally reflects the same wording - and more specifically - 'The Saeima's participation in the adoption of guidelines for the development of education is implemented through the Education, Culture and Science Commission, unless the Saeima decides otherwise', so that the Saeima will choose to decide itself on the adoption of guidelines for the development of education or delegate it to the Commission. My proposal does not amend the concept adopted at first reading, but complements the parliamentary option. And, in my view, this amendment to the law is favourable to strengthening the Saeima's control over the activities of the executive. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U66	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U67	Guidelines of the education system to give decision to Minister Šuplinska - that is insane! Minister, who thinks that football is not her sight. The World Sports King football is not in the sight of the Minister! She has been working on Covid-19 forms throughout the summer, and today (and yesterday) all Latvian parents do not know how to bring their children to school in front of the door. It's the order that one school has to go on a certain entrance separately, and then they all meet. In another one, we have to wait at the gym, and then they all meet again at school. These are the education guidelines that the Minister of Education is able to create. Instead of creating a system that has many small classes with 10 children, with much better teachers, the Minister tells us that football doesn't matter to her because... because physical culture for children is not important either! These guidelines cannot be left to the Minister, who is currently creating an education system. This cannot be because this minister does not understand anything about education. I also understand that these Members are not interested in education here, they are not interested in the future of our children, because they have not met for half a year and now the greatest clutters that Parliament has ever had. But there is one thing clear, dear society: while all this Covid-19 show is taking place, the Covid-19 theatre with masks on one side and without masks on the other side, until you know how your children will learn at school, and while you wait for an education minister who is not able to do anything in the education system... In the meantime, nothing will change. You have only one chance. And this option is 10 October. Everyone who takes care of their children's education must be on the streets of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U68	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U69	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Two days ago more than 200 thousand Latvian students started a new school year. But how did the Saeima prepare for school? In August I had the experience of listening to the Education, Culture, and Science Commission for about an hour. Members, ministers and officials decided on the so-called three models of education approach, how schools can implement programmes during the choral crisis. There was no discussion or argument, quite calm and obedient fellow Members listened to the presentations and dissipated. And that's why Latvian schools now have a crisis and chaos. Parliament seems to have to do its job in the field of education. I therefore support Mr Pimenova's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U70	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U71	Hello, dear colleagues! I must also say that I am very happy to see you all together after a long break. It must be said that there is a little confusion about the debate, in which, when we discuss the progress of the education guidelines in the power system, we come to the streets. ( Interface: “There are no other options! ” ) I think there is no basis for anything like this, and I would like to say that the Education, Culture and Science Commission has developed, in my opinion, a rather elegant model of how to monitor the process of guiding these educational guidelines. So it's... unlike what it was before, when there was a very massive seven-year document, which also... containing action plans for these seven years on how to implement it. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has divided this document into two parts - so the guidelines are the same for seven years, plus the action plans for three, two and two years. These guidelines are therefore to be moved to the Cabinet of Ministers only after they have been accepted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, and so Parliament has some kind of veto right in the direction of these guidelines. All the Members are welcome to move forward at the time, through the representatives of their political groups, and to make these guidelines better when they come to the Commission. There is a very good opportunity for Parliament to do so. The second case is action plans. So, without Parliament's approval, these action plans cannot be accepted either, and I think this is very... This is also a very important element in the progress of the guidelines. Here, too, in fact, monitoring of executive activities is much clearer and stricter. These action plans are therefore also approved by the Parliamentary Commission. So I call on you not to support these two proposals and to support the draft law as a whole. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U72	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U73	Thank you, Mr Asheraden. I was hoping that you would comment on the answer in your speech... the answers to the question that Mrs Stepanenko asked you with her proposal as well as me. My duty is to understand this second paragraph of the paragraph at first reading. And here it is written - the Ministry prepares the document, submits it to the Commission, after receiving the support, the Commission drives the document for discussion in the Cabinet. Point. No options, no interpretations. It's like a straight arrow, there's no turn. Questions remain: how can non-members participate in the discussion of this document? It's not described here! Who are they? how will they find out at all about receiving such a document and entering it in the Saeima record-keeping? Who will invite them to participate in the discussion of the project with their message? That's not explained! What will be the procedure for tabling Members' proposals? There is no word either. And after the result is made, then maybe... These proposals may have been submitted to the Commission and will be discussed. And the document will be amended. Will you send this document back to the Ministry if, for example, the proposals are supported by the Commission? Well, then... But the main question is how will other Members be involved in the discussion of the draft guidelines for the development of education? Unanswered question.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U74	The name to Member Arvil Asheraden for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U75	Now, we are pronouncing the work of the parliament. It is clear that all Parliament's work is open, that the whole movement of documents and the documents submitted are clearly visible in Parliament's various information systems. The second level of security for this - Members of all political groups are represented on the Education, Culture and Science Commission. And their next duty is to inform their group that such a document is on the move and in what way it is on the move. Of course, we are interested in examining the proposals made by all Members and making sure that the Commission votes that the guidelines have been approved. It is an elementary logic of parliamentary work. There is no secret procedure here. This is in line with the Saeima's order roll. And we don't have to write the parliamentary roll into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U76	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U77	Mr. Asheraden! You have just read from the book the theory of how the parliament should work in a normal democratic state. You have probably forgotten or had little or no presence in such a real parliamentary work, or perhaps too little notice, just how many opposition proposals have been taken into account, supported, debated. It is exactly how much you have studied the problems of people who have tried to tell you something in the commissions. You can't understand things that you don't understand. You have that in the economy as well as in education.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U78	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U79	Dear Latvian society! I repeat: if you are for your children, 10 October - on the streets of Latvia. ( The intersacred part of the NA fraction.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U80	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U81	The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U82	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U83	Yes, colleagues, thank you. I call for this draft law to be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U84	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Education Act at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 66, against - 3, refrains - 20. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Court”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovich: “How many in the tenth?” Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U85	Mr. Urbanovich, you're a very early bird. You're waiting for eight... eight at the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U86	On the proposal, please, Mr Gobzem, on proposal 1!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U87	Before the third reading, the Legal Commission has examined “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Court” (No. 5.51/Lp13). Five proposals have been submitted to the third reading, and I am looking at it. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is requested to exclude paragraph 2(c) of the fourth paragraph of Article 4 of that law. These are the requirements that must be met when applying for... to become a judge of the Constitutional Court, and here is the question of residence. The Commission is, of course, in favour of this proposal from the coalition minister. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U89	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is requested to supplement the first paragraph of Section 7 with the second sentence in the following wording: “If a person has left the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court in order to perform a position in the international court or to represent the state of Latvia in taking a position at an international institution, and since leaving the office of a judge of the Constitutional Court has not been suspended for more than 10 years, a person may be re-approved for the remainder of the term of office.” The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U91	3. - also the proposal by Jānis Bordāns, Minister of Justice. It requests that the third paragraph of Section 35 of the Law be excluded. The third part is an issue related to administrative violations, when a judge of the Constitutional Court could be called to disciplinary responsibility. And there is a request to exclude this point.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U93	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Paragraph 4 of the first paragraph of Article 36 shall be excluded. Paragraph 4 is also respectively the same, but for administrative offences. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U95	5. - Armande Krauze's proposal for transitional arrangements. There is no support in the Commission. Commission... The substance of the proposal is as follows: cases initiated regarding compliance of the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents with the Satversme shall be considered until the municipal elections scheduled for 5 June 2021. The Commission is not supported, as I said.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U96	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U97	Hello, colleagues! My proposal is indeed not supported by the Commission, and I also understand that it is perhaps not correct from the point of view of jurisdiction and lawyers, but my proposal was put forward to draw attention to the problem. And the problem can really be, given that administrative territorial reform has taken place, many municipalities have submitted applications to the Constitutional Court and, consequently, the Constitutional Court has accepted and reviewed it over a certain period of time. But the situation may arise if the Constitutional Court fails to review cases before the municipal elections scheduled for next year (elections take place according to the existing law, of course, in the existing territories approved here in the Saeima), then after some time the Constitutional Court takes a decision - maybe something is rejected and says that everything was fine with these territories, but in certain places says nevertheless that it does not comply with the Satversme. And then it turns out that, of course, the elections have already taken place, they are legitimate, according to legislation, and they will no longer be cancelled. It would be like this: when in ancient times he was sentenced to death, someone who has been sentenced to this death penalty has been tried, but he is executed and half a year later he says - yes, you know, he was innocent, well, and that death penalty has been sentenced to failure if. That is why I also tabled this proposal to draw attention to this problem. I also heard the opinions of the members of the Commission, as well as the opinions of representatives of the Constitutional Court and the Ministry of Justice. And, of course, I hope that the Constitutional Court will review in time. I would also like to stress that my proposal is by no means... what some might have said there may be pressure on the court. No, it is not, because I feel that our court will also review everything within reasonable time limits and that, until next year's municipal elections, we will already know whether the law and administrative territorial reform are in compliance with the Constitution or, nevertheless, do not correspond in separate places. That is why, yes, it is my argument why such a proposal has been tabled, and I do not request a vote on it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U98	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U99	On behalf of the Commission, please approve the draft law “Amendments to the Constitutional Court Law” at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U100	So for the proposal, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U101	There is nothing more to add on the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U102	So the rapporteur does not say anything about the proposal, but the speaker does not ask for a vote on the proposal 5, and Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U103	Yeah. And please approve the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U104	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Constitutional Court Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to law “On Judicial Power”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U105	We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power”” (No. 553/Lp13). Adjudicated by the Legal Commission before the third, final, reading. This is the accompanying draft law for the newly approved draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Court”. In accordance with Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, no proposals were submitted. Please approve the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U106	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Criminal Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U107	Hello, dear colleagues! At third reading, we are looking at the draft law on criminal law (No. 712/Lp13). Two proposals have been received and examined by the Legal Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Article 221.6 shall be supplemented by the words ‘to a small extent’, in accordance with the mark of the objective side indicated in the statement of the article, i.e. the marketing of tobacco to a small extent. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U109	2. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Technical proposal: It provides for the definition of a ‘small size’ in the item in question. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U111	I call on Members to support the third, final reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U112	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law amending the Criminal Law, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U113	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” is under consideration at third reading (No. 713/Lp13). The draft law is related to the newly supported draft law "Amendments to the Criminal Law". One proposal has been received and examined by the Legal Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The definition of ‘small’ in relation to tobacco products is systematically clarified by adding to Article 22, second paragraph, of the Law on the Procedure for the Entry into Force and Application of the Criminal Law. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U115	I invite Members to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedure for the Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U116	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 90, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Support for the Activities of New Enterprises’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U117	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, It is a real pleasure to speak to you again like this, from the podium. Today we see the third draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for the Activities of New Enterprises” of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy (No. 573/Lp13). This draft law provides for clarification of the various qualification conditions in the Law on State aid for start-ups, reduction of the administrative burden in the application process, as well as further improvements to be explicitly applicable and aims at increasing the number of start-ups qualifying for aid under that law. The draft law was drawn up by the Ministry of Economics. Seven proposals were received for the third, final reading of the draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying. Provision is made for establishing in the second paragraph of Article 4 of the law that the tax debt of the new company does not exceed EUR 150 and no insolvency proceedings have been declared. In the past, the relevant requirements were set in a different form by reference to the first paragraph of Article 4. The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U119	2. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Clarifying. Provision shall be made for references to the criteria set out in points 2 and 3 of the first paragraph of Article 4 of the law in accordance with the amendments approved at second reading of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U121	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is planned to supplement Section 15, second paragraph, with paragraph 5, which establishes new rights for the new company’s evaluation committee, namely ‘to request from organisations representing new companies an opinion on the compliance of the new company with the requirements of Section 1(5) of this Law’. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U123	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying. It is envisaged to exclude paragraph 6 of the first paragraph of Article 19 of the Law, which imposed an obligation on the new company to provide proof that at least 50 per cent of the expenses of the new company since its registration in the commercial register have been allocated to research and development and are accounted for separately. The relevant provision at second reading was deleted. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U125	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 19(3) of the Law provides for a new wording, thus deleting the rule that a new enterprise does not carry out a recalculation if it loses its right to use the aid scheme because it acquired ownership of the innovative product on the basis of which the aid scheme was granted. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U127	6. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Article 20(1)(7) of the Law provides for the Commission to repeal the decision granting the aid scheme if the new company has acquired ownership of the innovative product on the basis of which it was granted the aid scheme. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U129	And finally 7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is planned to supplement the draft law with an indication of the entry into force of the law, stating that the law enters into force on the day following its announcement. The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U130	Let's start a debate. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U131	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I, too, congratulate all of you on the restoration of Parliament's work. We have some progress. If we compare history, then the last time that Saeima’s work ended illegally in May 1934 had to wait more than half a century for Parliament to come back. On this background these few months - such a moment in a volatile history. But now this bill. First of all, I would like to say that I also support this 7th proposal, like all the previous six, but I have one comment on the draft law as a whole, which I also support. In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, when debating amendments to the draft law on start-ups, one argument was that it would help us... This should be done very quickly because it will help us not only to set up our own companies, but also to attract here Belarusian companies that, because of Belarus's circumstances, could transfer all of their start-ups elsewhere... here to Latvia. Therefore, this should be done as quickly as possible. First of all, I think this is such a new approach to real policy, I do not know whether we are aware that we are trying to live on what is happening in Belarus ourselves. Let's move all the Belarusians here and so. But okay. That's one comment. Second. I just want some illusions not to be put into such thoughts, because anyone would like to move here, where they'd still start-up... Probably those who move must be able to open a bank account in Latvia, for example, and various other things. In particular, it is interesting if we read the new guidelines of the Financial Intelligence Service on how to assess companies and which companies consider suspicious, and the banks should take appropriate action when they close their accounts or otherwise limit them. Then with such a business card we will not only open no start-up for ourselves, where we will still attract Belarusians! We will take all the remaining companies away from Latvia. I will name a few criteria that make the company suspicious. One of the criteria is that if negative information is visible about the company or its entrepreneurs in the public space. Understandably, if I write that I do not like Cēsu alus, then, in principle, it will already have some negative information about Cēsu alus and the banks must start suspiciously looking at them. Secondly, if a company starts to accumulate funds on its account, let's accept it if you want to invest or buy another company, it's already suspicious. But "best" - if it has had transactions with the state or municipality, or private companies that have participated in public procurement. Even then, the company becomes suspicious. Finally, if the website of the company does not indicate an active activity of the company, it also becomes suspicious. It is not said if the absence of a website is already a suspicious basis, but... This is the business card we give. I support the draft law, but let's not do it, please, illusion that it will change something in Latvia in some way. It could work if we arranged the basics in such a way that anyone in Latvia wants to do business, without automatically making it possible to sit in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U132	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U133	Dear colleagues, As for this argument, why it would be desirable for this draft law to enter into force a little faster, namely the day after the announcement of this law. The author of this proposal was me, and indeed one of the arguments I used was that of the Belarusians. I would like to illustrate a little bit to Digim Schmidt why this is important. In a completely different way than it was explained, that is, you have... and we must all be aware that, at a time when any person, including a businessman, in Belarus, is clearly expressing his political position, he is being persecuted. In particular, I know Belarusian... a large Belarusian IT businessman who has publicly clearly expressed his support for democratic changes in Belarus. His business... For example, his offices were searched with police hands yesterday. In this case, there may be a situation where entrepreneurs also need a haven (political refuge for them and their families) and a new home for their business. Such situations may exist, and in this respect it is not insignificant that we are able to offer new technological Belarusian companies good conditions, a good playing field, where we can further develop and grow globally, from a Member State of the European Union. And why not in Latvia? As far as the draft law itself is concerned, I would like to recall its background. Colleagues, this bill was born in 2016. The authors of the idea were the founders of the Latvian Association of Young Enterprises, and in dialogue with the Ministry of Economics a bill was prepared, which was very innovative, very welcome start-up. And I must say that both the Lithuanian and Estonian neighbours at the time were simply the white pain that we were able to prepare such a bill in dialogue with our country's power. Unfortunately, various restrictions were placed in the harmonisation process - basically from the Ministry of Finance's concerns about tax optimisation and something that is not yet in place. As a result, these requirements have been so strict that within three years of this law being in force, the aid has not been received by about 100 start-ups, as we expected, when the law was drafted, but only five. Consequently, our proposals, including my proposals, which were supported here at second reading, to significantly soften these demands, to untie out these unnecessary restrictions, make us hope that Latvia could at last be a start-up magnet at the Baltic level from different countries - from Ukraine, from further Eastern Partnership countries, as well as from neighbouring countries. Why not? Also from other continents. That is possible. I think this is the case where we have to believe in ourselves, we have to do the right thing. I therefore call on everyone to support this draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U134	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U135	Oh, no... Forgive... I wanted a reply to what Daniel Pavilut said. Undoubtedly, Belarusian entrepreneurs, who are being repressed and forced to leave Belarus, should have their doors wide open. That's not what it's about. It is about something completely different, that is, when a Belarusian company is going to be a bunk of political repression in Belarus, it will not want to get into economic repression where it gets away. I have just described what awaits such an entrepreneur in Latvia. If he reads these guidelines and looks at what happens in another country, such as Lithuania or Poland, he will be there. And I call you to remember... I do not remember everything in the delegation, but there was a visit by our Parliament's Commission for Sustainable Development to Poland just under a year ago, where we met in a Chamber of Commerce and Industry, where there were also investors. By the way, there was also an investor from Belarus, who was originally in Latvia and moved to Poland. And they told us how it is to open a company, that is, you need a valid Schengen visa (a foreigner opens it on the Internet). Then you open the bank account and everything else. And then you get a temporary residence permit within a month, but you can work, pay wages, pay taxes and don't expect you to be granted or will not be granted a temporary residence permit. These are the rules in Poland. And anyone who, forgiveness, is now from Belarus, he looks at where he's better to sit. I am in favour of this draft law. Don’t feel that I’m against it, but this is... This is... I don't know, it's not even a percentage of what we should do for a Belarusian to move to Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U136	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U137	Before calling for Belarusian companies to be here, to offer preferential conditions or loyal treatment, it is necessary to focus from the beginning on those companies that are in Latvia and are subject to real economic sanctions, as Mr Schmidt said. And there are enough companies that suffered from Latvia’s economic policy and banking policy and “transparency” (footsteps) respectively. You don't have to cherish the illusions about the fairy tales that you are now telling you about the adoption of one potentially possible bill. And once again, building your political advertising and capital on the disaster and troubles of a neighbour, and a very deep tragedy, in my opinion, is simple, little said, unethical.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U138	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U139	Colleagues! I would remind you that the 7th proposal is the proposal of the committee responsible - to supplement the draft law with an indication of the entry into force of the law, providing that the law enters into force on the day following its promulgation. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U140	Members are in favour. None of the speakers requested a vote. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U141	The committee responsible has decided to direct the examination of the draft law at the third reading of the Saeima. I invite you to vote and support the final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Support for Young Enterprises".
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U142	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Support for the Activities of New Enterprises" third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Standardisation”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U143	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Standardisation”. The amendments to the standardization law are designed to change the national standardisation system and to address the problems of the standardisation system identified, thus improving the functioning of the national standardisation body and introducing a system of standardisation requests which will establish a centralised model for standard development and translation at national level, as well as specifying the terms of the existing standardization law. The Commission has supported the first reading. I also call on you to support this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U144	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Standardisation”! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U145	Timeframe... So, I'll give you a deadline right now. ( Interface: “On October 10! ” ) You know, we have a lot of legislative drafts. Our commission is a very productive commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U146	Please... the time limit for proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U147	... There's a lot of work. If the Saeima computer opens the deadline table for me, I'll give it to you right away. The deadline for proposals for the Standardization Act is 10 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U148	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U149	Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine” (No. 696/ Lp13). The draft law “Amendments to the Veterinary Medicine Law” was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture with the aim to improve the regulatory framework of the sector regarding compensation for the losses incurred during an outbreak of infectious animal disease or epizootic disease in animals under state supervision, specifying the content of certain norms in order to facilitate understanding and application of regulatory enactments. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U150	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U151	September 8, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U152	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 8 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U153	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”. This draft law has been created at the initiative of the Ministry of Transport. The draft law provides that the Civil Aviation Agency shall accept the authorisation to exclude the aircraft issued by a private person from the register and the export request and shall record the information on this authorisation in the Civil Aviation Aircraft Register of the Republic of Latvia. Where an aircraft register has been entered for this authorisation, aircraft may be removed from the register only at the request of the person for whose benefit the authorisation has been issued. The law shall enter into force at the same time as the law Amending the law on the Convention on International Guarantees for Mobile Equipment and the Protocol on International Guarantees for Mobile Equipment to the Convention on matters relating to Aircraft Equipment.’ The Commission has supported this draft law at first reading. I also call on you to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U154	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please have a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U155	Also September 10th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U156	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U157	Good morning, colleagues! On 3 June this year, the Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. So a short essence. The amendments provide for the addition of Article 31 of this law to... This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of any adjustments to remuneration during the financial year. Thus, a soldier who has been granted a service apartment is covered only by the following expenses from the state budget funds granted by the Ministry of Defence: rent of living space, real estate tax (if applicable), co-use electricity costs and heat costs. The Commission has supported the first reading, so I ask you also to support this draft law at the Parliamentary sitting at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U158	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U159	The deadline for the second reading of the proposals is 10 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U160	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year. Draft law “Law on Military Disciplinary Liability”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U161	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! At its meeting on 2 June this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law on Military Discipline (No. 662/Lp13). 15 proposals were received. Most of these proposals are of a technical nature. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U163	2. - Also the proposal of Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. The Commission has also supported these proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U165	3. - Also the proposal of Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. This commission has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U167	4. - Also the proposal of Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. The Commission has also supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U169	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. The Commission has also been in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U171	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. The Commission has also been in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U173	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. The Commission has also been in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U175	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U177	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U179	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U181	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U183	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U185	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U187	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U189	And 15. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U191	I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U192	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on military disciplinary responsibility at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U193	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 14 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U194	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 14 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U195	This is related to the previous draft law, and the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was also examining the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guard” (No. 663 Lp13). One proposal was put forward. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U197	As all the proposals have now been examined, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U198	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was therefore approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U199	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 14 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U200	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 September this year. And the bill “Amendments to the Military Service Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U201	At the same meeting on 2 June, the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” (No. 664/Lp13). One proposal was received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U203	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the Saeima in the second reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U204	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U205	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 14 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U206	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U208	Draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U209	Hello, colleagues! At second reading, we will consider the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement. I will briefly remind you that the draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Finance with the aim of improving the legal framework of the Public Service Providers' Procurement Act in order to increase the promotion of openness and competition between suppliers in procurement, as well as to increase the quality of procurement preparation and reduce the risks of corruption in public procurement. No proposals were submitted for the second reading. I therefore ask for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U210	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U211	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U212	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U213	Yes, and this draft law, these amendments are also related to the previous one. This is also developed by the Ministry of Finance, and its aim is to improve the legal framework of the Public Procurement Law in order to achieve the promotion of transparency and competition between suppliers in procurement, as well as to increase the quality of procurement preparation and reduce corruption risks in public procurement. Three proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1. - Member's proposal. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U214	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U215	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Suppliers shall provide for the right to comment electronically on notices of consultation and procurement documents at least 10 working days after publication of the notice and documents. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U217	3. - Member's proposal. The information to be included in the consultation report shall be supplemented and specified. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U218	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Daniel Pavilut. ( Interface: “Where is the mask, Daniel? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U219	Colleagues and colleagues! Our task in relation to the public procurement system is to make it both more qualitative in process and also in terms of outcome and more transparent in every way possible. Transparency is a crucial component of the public procurement system, so I would like to clarify that these proposals (both the previous one - 1. - which was already supported 2. - in the proposal of the Commission, this one - 3. - the proposal) is formulated in the business environment. These are proposals that have come from the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which, in my opinion, was motivated to ask for more time to get acquainted with and comment on complex technical specifications. Similarly, in this proposal, it is necessary to reflect in greater detail the participants, their comments and, above all, the conclusions that the contracting entity draws from the results of these protocols relating to the consultation and these reports on the subject of the procurement. Since I invite you to support these proposals as another step towards a more high-quality and transparent public procurement system in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U220	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U221	I wasn't going to talk, but in view of Daniel Pavilut's dual nature... Just as with masks, when he comes in front, he doesn't have mask; go back, put mask. Also with the question of public procurement: he says he wants to make everything there more transparent... If it says it to Development/About! leader... We will talk about transparent matters right away. Transfer of Riga City Council VEF... ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) The issue of very transparent public procurement, if any?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And the concert of Tērbata Street, which the Parisians performed during the Covid-19... That too is very transparent?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mask Purchase... Mr. Pavilut, the mask you put on... Your party friend, famous disco finger maker Ilze Viņķele bought masks... There's a criminal case right there. You are talking about procurement - that you now want more transparent procurement. The same beloved friend Ilze Viņķele who bought all these Rajevska PRs for half a million or how much money it keeps... While you are not enough for 150,000 children with disabilities! And then you, Mr. Pavlut, climb into the quay and have a serious face, so licked... in a fine support you tell us that you want openness and transparency in procurement. Why don't you just get up and tell me why you need Rajevski to give me half a million. Should he give you a name on television before the elections? Mask buy at such expensive prices! That's why you've got to sit in those masks that you've got so expensive to buy -- somewhere you've got to turn out to be, if? There is no other place to turn out, only the Saeima can put the mask on, because elsewhere you can walk without. Especially Post Election... The post-election party of the Riga City Council... I don't remember that Pavilut would have had a mask in there for just one second. ( Internouncing call.) Only now, because the cameras are still on, because then you can tell us seriously that we have Covid-19 problems in Latvia, that we have a very dangerous situation. But when you have to shoot after the party, when the elections have been won, what masks?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then you don't get caught, because there are diplomatic passports. ( Internexion: “What about the bill? ” ) Dear Society! I call on you not to listen to what you're talking about in sweet tongues, in such sweet voices. Once you, society, have to understand that honesty does not start with sweet speeches and such a proper hosting; honesty starts with a direct language. Just talk about what the two previous speaker has been talking about when he climbed this platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U222	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U223	Colleagues! I would just add, for the sake of fairness, that even a working group meeting was held in connection with these amendments... not a task force, but... The meeting, which represented the Procurement Supervision Bureau and the representatives of ministries and non-governmental organisations, was widely discussed and discussed. And if I remember correctly, I was the only one from Members there. That's why... Everyone had the opportunity to speak and act there! That's all that's happening here now, that's, I'm sorry, Lyric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U224	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U225	No, nothing is added on behalf of the Commission. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U226	For us the time of the proposal... on Proposal No 3... Does one of the Members wish to vote on proposal 3? ( The box “No! ”) ) So Members support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U227	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U228	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U229	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U230	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Tax Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U231	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission looked at the draft law on Corporate Income Tax submitted by the Government prior to the first reading. The draft law provides for a neutral tax regime, providing that the amount of the debtor’s debt which has not been recovered from the debtor, a natural person, is not included in the corporate income tax base. In the Commission, the draft law was reviewed and it was decided to support its adoption to the first reading at the Saeima sitting. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U232	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 86, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U233	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U234	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U235	The budget and financial (tax) commission also looked at the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” before the first reading. The draft law provides that income from the discharge of debts by a person will not be included in the annual taxable income and will thus not be taxed as it has been until now. In the Commission, the draft law was reviewed and it was decided to support it for the first reading at the Saeima meeting. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U236	Please call me! Let's vote on the bill... Debate, apologies. Colleagues have applied in the debate. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. ( Insight, “Then you will get! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U237	Now, I understand, it's the right place, probably, where I can tell you what I mean about taxes... And also in connection with... about that project... and how work on the creation of a tax system is taking place at all. Do I understand right? Can I speak now, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U238	Talk about the bill!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U239	I'm talking. Yeah. To me, to be honest, there is no confidence in the quality in which it will be brought to the Saeima, in what process it will be. Because knowing that people working in working groups, I know politicians who are here too... This new politician, too, who was just on this platform, well nothing... Well, nothing before... Well, now maybe something is understood about what is the income chapter, which is the expenditure chapter, why the revenue should be increased to be higher. Well, dear friends, if you don't know such basic things as the budget, what can we want at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So what are we waiting for? If... Well, I'll say that in the working group... But this case has happened at a much higher level... If a high-ranking politician has worked abroad, it can be said that Latvia does not need investment, because all that is investment in Latvia is just a criminal office, then, forgive me my emotionality, I have no different way to tell you - enough! This time is over! For those entrepreneurs who sit out there and earn salaries for you, also for your children... You know, they got to the neck. And I have a specific example. I would not call myself a name because no one is hungry in that country. A concrete example - for 36 months very clever two entrepreneurs went ring danci by state institutions. Always... sent from one place to the other, from one place to the other. Well, you old group, you should have known that. We knew all this from our head to the elections... How'd you forget it now when you work on taxes, now? Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, something has changed? No, no? That's fantastic! It's been 36 months. It's been... Well, of course, I listen always, I also feel hurt, but what can I do? I am the opposition! And everyone at the foot - the opposition has some experience, there's no experience. We offered it there... God protect me, in some serious commission to let the opposition go - no, no, madness! Let us bring something too clever to this country! You know, I'm embarrassed at all times, all... I too... Of course I won't tell who I called... ( The box “Erika! ”) (Laughter) Because it's probably that guy too... I wouldn't want to put him in an uncomfortable situation, but... I'm with my whole heart... in the same way that in the morning I tried to tell you what treason is for the voter, and in all my heart I told you what treason is for the businessman. And, you know, that's the problem in 10 minutes! You here do understand what you are talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Budget... People who don't understand anything from business, open your eyes! ( Internouncing call.) Get out of that commission! You don't understand anything about it! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U240	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U241	Let me make a little comment on this bill. This is very closely linked to the basic package of other relevant laws. That is, the law on the release of a natural person from debt... And the aim of this draft law is to provide a solution to the economic problems of the low-income. I shall quote the figures presented by the Ministry of Justice and mentioned in the draft law, which serve as the basis for this draft law, this amendment of the law. In particular, taking into account the profile of the entities to which this amendment of the law will apply... The existing framework for the insolvency proceedings of a natural person is, in most cases, not available in nature. What does this involve? According to the information of the Central Statistical Administration, we consider the risk of poverty and social exclusion in Latvia... Year 2018... These results show that in 2017, 23,3 percent of the population in Latvia was exposed to the risk of poverty, or 446 thousand people. At a minimum, approximately 100,000 people are exposed to financial difficulties due to borrowing, credit and the economic situation. This bill is simply complementary: it provides for a person to be released from debts... the person will not be obliged to pay personal income tax on this income. This is a supportive bill. Of course, I support this draft law, this amendment to the law, but I only draw attention to what is a priority and what draft laws... and their justification is currently under discussion. It is also stated that at the end of 2018 the status of a poor person was established for 50,447 persons, while the status of a low-income person was established for 50,235 persons. And it is said that the norm of this draft law will probably apply to 20.4% of natural persons, or 142 595 people. Please support this draft law, but understand why it is and to what it concerns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U242	I closed the debate. Is there a commission that should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U243	On behalf of the Commission, I thank the speakers for their explanations and understanding. I would remind you that in the Commission the draft law was reviewed and supported. Please support this, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U244	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U245	1 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U246	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U247	See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” (No. 711/Lp13). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and supported amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications for the first reading. They shall provide that an electronic communications operator, upon notification by the State Fire and Rescue Service of a disaster related to a danger to the life, health or property of a person, shall, as soon as possible, send to its communication users and subscribers the information prepared by the State Fire and Rescue Service on the action to be taken in such a situation. Such changes are necessary because Latvian epidemiology experts and World Health Organisation specialists predict that a second outbreak of Covid-19 virus is possible in autumn. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) And it is therefore necessary to improve the early warning system as soon as possible. Given that 98 percent of societies use mobile phones, it is possible as a convenient solution for reaching and informing a wide range of people. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U248	Colleagues, let's vote on setting the urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U249	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U250	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U251	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 10 September of this year. And the second reading of the draft law - 17 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U252	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 17 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U253	Hello, colleagues! We work with Law No. 728/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law “On Pollution”, first reading. Amendments to that law were made in the context of Directive No. 218/410 and their aim is to contribute to an effective reduction of emissions costs and investment in low-carbon solutions. It is quite complicated, but I think it is clear that it is only in a positive direction. These amendments provide for clarification of the requirements related to the development of a municipal action programme on air quality. In order to develop this programme, municipalities are given the right to collect and collect information on heating equipment and fuels located in their territory. I would like to point out that this directive was adopted in 2018. As you have understood, we are almost one year late in taking over it, but I hope we will be able to do so soon. In the Commission, we have examined and supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U254	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U255	Deadline for submission of proposals - 10 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U256	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Evija Papule.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U257	Hello! It's good to see everyone on the spot. No matter what the outside time, it's always a pleasure! Draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law”, second reading. Five proposals have been submitted for second reading of the draft law. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) It's never good to talk before lunch... 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau relating to the codification of laws and regulations and specifying the use of terms. The proposal is supported by the Education, Culture and Science Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U259	2. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for penalties for the use of copyright or related rights without the appropriate consent or the payment of remuneration... provide for sanctions for both natural and legal persons. The Commission received comments from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, the Ministry of Culture, the Supreme Court and the State Police. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U261	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. This proposal provides for a deadline for the State Police to conduct administrative infringement proceedings concerning violations of copyright and related rights. The Commission received comments from the Ministry of the Interior and the Legal Office of the Saeima. And the proposal was not supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U262	Members shall not object. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) However, Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Ģürgen! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U263	4. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. This is due to Proposal No 3... Like... and intends to delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers the task of drafting laws to ensure the protection of the property rights of holders of copyright and related rights. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U264	Members want a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Ģürgen! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 51, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U265	5. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau setting the date of entry into force of the law. The proposal has been supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U267	Thank you. The proposals have been examined. I call for the vote on the draft law at second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U268	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U269	The deadline for submitting proposals is five working days or 10 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U270	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U272	Colleagues! We will continue after the break. Please register the Members. Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary - to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U273	Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Gundars Dauge, Inga Goldberga, Inese Ikstena, Ralfs Nemiro and Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U274	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U275	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U276	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” will ensure compliance of the Law on Higher Education with the first sentence of Article 106 of the Satversme. Introducing in the legal system measures to ensure protection against successive and fixed time periods of time... abuse of fixed-term employment contracts. This is also required by the Council Directive of 28 June 1999, to which the previous version of the Law on Higher Education did not correspond. 21 legislative proposals have been submitted for second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It shall specify in editorial terms the rules of the draft law governing the main principles of the position of professor. The proposal is supported by the Education, Culture and Science Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U278	2. - The proposal of the Law Bureau, which urges to supplement Article 28 of the Law, specifying that the employment contract shall be concluded with the professor of the higher education institution. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U280	3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which shall specify and stipulate in editorial terms that an open competition shall be held for the post of Associate Professor. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U282	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau stating that a contract of employment with an associate professor shall be concluded by the rector of the higher education institution. The proposal is supported by the Education, Culture and Science Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U284	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It clarifies in editorial terms the rule supported by the first reading of the draft law governing the procedure for the election of professors and associated professors, by stating that the Council of Sectoral Professors shall decide on each applicant by means of an open vote. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U286	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It clarifies in editorial terms the rule supported by the first reading of the draft law governing the procedure for the election of professors and associated professors, laying down the procedure for submitting the results of the elections to the rector by the Council of Sectoral Professors. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U288	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the exclusion of the fifth paragraph of Section 33 of the Law, which regulates the procedure for the election of professors and associated professors. This provision is already included in Section 28(1) of the Law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U290	8 / 8 - A proposal from Member Arville Asheraden. It calls for the addition of a new article providing for a model of action for universities to be implemented in the event of the termination of the science direction in which the professor or associate professor is elected, in accordance with the university's development strategy. This proposal has been partly supported and incorporated in 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U291	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U292	9. - the proposal of Member Asheraden, which, in the new version of Rule 34, lays down additional criteria for the assessment of the scientific and educational qualifications of professors or associate professors, as well as the rule that the university itself may lay down the procedure for assessing the qualification and performance of professors and associated professors (in addition to the criteria laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers). In the Commission, this proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U293	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U294	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau which clarifies and amends, in editorial terms, the procedure laid down in Article 34, paragraph 1, of the Law in the form of a fifth paragraph. This is a technical proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U296	11. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau, which editorially arranges the parts of the Section of the Law, supplements Article 34 with a new first paragraph of the Law by providing that the Council of Sectoral Professors shall evaluate the scientific and educational qualifications and the work of artistic creativity of the applicant as well as of the professor in office or associate professor. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U298	12. - A proposal from Member Arville Asheraden. There, in addition to the conditions on qualification assessment which have already been supported at first reading, it is established that the university regularly, not less frequently than every two years, evaluates the performance of the professor or associate professor and according to the assessment determines the right of the Council of Professors to carry out an early assessment of qualification compliance. In the Commission, this proposal has been partly supported and included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U299	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U300	13. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying the arrangements for the evaluation of the results of the work of a short-term professor or associate professor. This proposal has been supported and included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U301	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U302	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Having evaluated the 12th and 13th proposals and the solutions proposed therein, the Commission prepared a new version of Section 34(3) of the Law, which includes the Member Asheraden's proposal in part and supports the wording proposed by the Legal Bureau, establishing the procedure for assessing the results of the scientific and educational qualifications of the professor or associate professor and of the work of artistic creativity. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U303	Members are in favour. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U304	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. In line with the structure of the draft law, it clarifies in editorial terms the version supported at first reading. This is a technical proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U306	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the exclusion of the fifth paragraph of Article 5 of the draft law by including that provision (on the establishment and termination of employment relations with professors and associated professors) in the new article of the draft law, which is contained in 20. - the Commission's proposal. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U308	17. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Having evaluated proposals 9 and 10, the Commission agreed on a single version of Section 34, Section 5, which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the criteria, procedure and time limits within which the Board of Sectoral Professors shall assess the qualifications of the applicant or the professor or associate professor or the results of the work of artistic creation, as well as provide for the possibility for the university to establish additional criteria. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U310	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for editorial clarifications and supplements the norm by providing that, when organising an open competition for the position of professor or associate professor, a sector professors’ board is set up, which assesses not only the scientific and educational qualifications of professors, but also the results of the work of artistic creativity. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U312	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the addition of Article 7 of the draft law, which provides for the establishment and termination of a legal employment relationship with professors and associated professors. It is included in 20. - the Commission proposal and partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U313	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U314	20.- Proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In order to ensure the development and implementation of modern scientific trends in universities, it provides for the addition of a new article - Article 35.1 - regulating the procedure for the establishment and termination of legal employment relations with the professor and associate professor, while providing for compensatory mechanisms. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U316	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In paragraph 54 of the transitional provisions, it shall specify the period by which the Cabinet of Ministers shall issue regulations setting out the criteria, procedure and time limits within which the Council of Professors shall assess the results of the qualification and artistic creation of a professor or associate professor. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U318	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U319	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U320	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 20 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U321	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U322	Hello, dear colleagues! Madam President of the Saeima. We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings”. I recall that the purpose of the draft law is to take over the requirements of Directive 2018/844. Four proposals have been submitted for the second reading of the draft law. 1. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which sets out, in addition to determining the energy efficiency classes of buildings by the Cabinet of Ministers, "as well as requirements for almost zero energy buildings" (this concerns so-called passive buildings). The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U324	2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It provides that the checks of the heating and air-conditioning system need not be carried out in the case where the owner has concluded an energy efficiency service contract for carrying out energy efficiency measures in the building in compliance with the requirements of the Energy Efficiency Law. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U326	I will now make both proposals 3 and 4. The proposal is a proposal by the Legal Bureau related to setting a time limit for drafting the points specified in this Law in the Cabinet of Ministers. And it was partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U327	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U328	On the other hand, Proposal No 4 was drawn up on the basis of this proposal as a proposal from the committee responsible, in which... We decided that this delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to establish the relevant rules is until 31 March 2021. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U330	Therefore, colleagues, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U331	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U332	Deadline for submission of proposals - 8 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U333	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 8 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U334	Welcome again, colleagues. Today we are looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” (No. 727/Lp13). Amendments to the law provide for the inclusion of... intends to subject two new psychoactive substances - furanyl UF-17 and 2F-viminol - to control, which have been subject to a temporary ban for up to 12 months in Latvia by a decision of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre. As pointed out by the Ministry of Health, the use of these substances and articles containing them “may cause serious damage to human health, to life and to public safety in general”. It should be stressed that the prohibition of these substances should also be provided for in the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Consequently, in order to ensure the timely entry into force of the relevant provisions, it is necessary to apply the urgency procedure within the temporary prohibition period. The Legal Commission has examined the draft law, supported it and recognised it as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U335	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U336	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U337	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U338	Deadline for submission of proposals - 8 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U339	And the timing of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U340	The examination period could be 17 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U341	September 17th. Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 8 September this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 17 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U342	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the received proposals in the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis, which has been partly supported, is included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U343	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U344	2. - the proposal of the committee responsible, namely the Legal Commission, which provides for the extension of the competence of the Riga City Vidzeme Suburban court to include cases on protection of commercial secrets, protection of copyright and related rights. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U346	3. - A proposal from Member Ata Zakatistova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U347	Let us start a debate. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U348	I would like to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U349	Are there any objections to the merger of both times? ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) There are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U350	Thank you for your permission. Dear colleagues, We are starting to look at a set of issues on the Economic Court. We have put forward a number of proposals from our group, both in this draft law on civil matters and in the draft law, which we will probably see in two weeks' time and which concerns criminal matters. What I want to do right now - I want to tell you... I am sorry that I have now delayed your time by using the combined time. ( Subtotal: “Nothing! ”) ) I would like to tell you a set of circumstances, or... That doctrine... or a set of facts that we consider true with regard to the justice system. And that in turn leads to all the proposals that we have made. There are several themes that I will first name and then try to justify on the basis of the last authoritative study on the Latvian judicial system, which is presented to us in Latvia and which experts know. I mean, it's a report... Evaluation of Latvian judicial system (from 2018) has been created by an organization with a strange name - CEPEJ. In English, the last two letters of its name – E and J – mean Efficiency of Justice. The first thing I want to say to you and then to confirm with expert opinions is that specialised courts are concerned about possible risks of corruption. The second thing that is objective, or the second one that I want to say, is that the movement of cases by category is that there are not so many problems with civil cases, but there are problems with criminal cases. And if we systematically look at the Economic Court as a potential assistant to the Latvian justice system, then, in our opinion, looking at criminal cases is where you can embed, let's say it, in Irish, so that everyone can become better. But I will gradually base these statements with quotes from experts' opinions. The third subject that I would like to raise concerns the recommendations made by experts on the time limits for hearing cases and the length of proceedings within a given time limit. What the experts see - they see that the objective when handling cases is to deal with priority cases within three months, then within 12 months - about 90 per cent of the total. And finally, the remaining 5 to 10 percent, if objective conditions allow, see also later and longer, but this must be justified separately. The fourth is the setting of a time limit. And what we, as a group, say, is that setting a deadline in the law is a good practice. Finally, the last thing. Transfer of cases is widely practiced in Latvia to balance the load. What I would like to say is that this is not the practice adopted in Europe at all, and it should be avoided in Latvia. And now I return to what we want to say about where the Economic Court could be useful in the justice system. The first point. The Court of Economic Affairs would be dominated by noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) It is the criminal cases that need to be dealt with - it is the criminal cases that are related to economic issues. And they split into three groups - fraud, tax evasion and money laundering. These would be those fundamental cases that should be dealt with by the Economic Court. And in addition to that, the Economic Court of Justice can look at complex civil cases. And we define its complex civil cases in this proposal by... as civil cases between two legal entities. So our vision for the effective functioning of the Economic Court is that 90 per cent of this court load is criminal cases and specific verses are viewed in full, rather than giving the court the choice or the privilege to choose a category - let's say, in popular terms, choose the fillets and leave the rest of the system with its tendons. Now I will try to base my quotes on the practice of re-allocating cases in Latvia, transferring cases to other courts. And on page 137 of the 2018 study, this issue is very clearly defined. I quote: “The referral, currently practiced in Latvia, in order to balance the workload, should be carefully analysed because it raises concerns.” In general, European judicial authorities do not transfer cases from one court to another in order to deal with excessive pressure. Therefore, the essence of our offer is that we clearly define the Economic Courts, so to speak, a menu. And what they have to look at completely is precisely criminal matters, because there's... have problems in the Latvian judicial system. Next, closing remarks on the quality of the courts. I quote: “The measures relating to reassignment or transfer of cases, which are currently widely used to solve the problem of overload of courts in Riga courts, may raise questions regarding legal requirements as well as the full implementation of the principle of legitimate expectations.” And here the experts actually address us. And I continue the quote: “Thus, Latvian legislators should consider amending the legal framework by establishing clear and predictable criteria, principles and guarantees for fair re-allocation of cases.” And in our proposals we offer exactly this view. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) When the next offers will come...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U351	Mr Zakatistova, the time for the debate, including the combined debate, has been exhausted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intersaxes.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U352	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U353	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U354	Colleagues! This is what I'm talking about, and it's going to be in two parts. First. The Court of Economic Affairs, as such, would not have been able to vote in favour of Mr Kazinovsky in the Legal Commission simply in order to retain the soft mandate of a Member; then we would not have dealt with this at all. That is the fair answer, Mr Kazinovsky. That's what it is. Secondly. The Court of Economic Affairs, as I have already said, is completely absurd in nature. In a situation where the state has no money (the budget is already half a billion fewer!) , we are building a new institution once again, dealing with pseudo-mechanisms, possibly real problems. And especially if the problem is in the criminal law section... And that's the problem with the Economic Court... to the position of Judge... one judge has applied for a criminal... as far as I am aware, one judge, to the criminal law chapter. And if you have to look at complicated things, as we know... The complicated things... Let's even take... Let's not take Lemberg's case, let's take someone else. Four years! About four years in one instance... That means that if there are ten judges there, that's just a fight and nothing happens there. That's the first part. Part Two: On the proposal itself. I would call on KPV LV to defend my proposals... before defending them, first replace your representative with the Legal Commission. You have a representative of your party, Mr. Gaidan, on the Legal Commission, who has as much understanding from law as from space science. He is a driver, in my opinion, not a lawyer, and not a person who is able to legally justify any opinion in the Legal Commission. Any opinion of you! And he's also unfounded, Mr. Zakatistov. Never. Vote as you need, Mr Zakatistov, just because you've sold to Unity. And that's a fair answer, Ati. You've sold it to Unity. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “A question just about what money? For big money or very big money?” ) You've done this a long time ago, and you can't smile. And if I wasn't... If it wasn't me, you wouldn't sit here. That's what it is. By the way, even if Neighbours were not (interferences.) ... By the way, even if Neighbours weren't... That's right. That's true! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) You wouldn't sit here, and you couldn't sell because you've already promised... after this Saeima... That you're going to have a job there. But on the proposal itself. The proposal is legally illiterate. And I'll explain. Listen very carefully. The substance of the proposal is as follows: the Economic Court of Justice shall, as a first instance court, hear commercial disputes between two legal persons. Why is it an illiterate proposal? Because disputes can also be between three, four, five, ten persons. And complicated disputes are usually between several persons. I will refer to one economic dispute, the Zolitude case. The dispute is between eight or ten persons. And it is a complex economic dispute - not only criminal law but also civil dispute. Therefore, Mr Zakatistova, before you prepare legal proposals on a very fine legal issue, I call on you to replace a representative who could advise you, as leader of a political group, on legal matters so that you do not have to get rid of the tribunal. The Economic Court is not a joke. It is a serious test of the absurdity that is being introduced in this situation in general... What I've been talking about before. All right, it's moving through now thanks to Kazinovsky's voice. But if it moves through, there is no need to make simply absurd proposals. If these are correct, the right proposals - okay, supported, looking, think how better to do so. But you don't need such a thing. And the other thing. In the same context... If you can combine the time...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U355	Are there any objections to merging the time of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U356	And the other thing in the same context is the question of what questions this court is dealing with. And this is still not the solution of all the previous discussions... That elementary thing... They'll look at the construction things, all where they issue a building permit... I'm sorry, when you're up, you need a building permit, too. All civil disputes, absolutely everyone where there is a dispute over money, are all economic disputes. All civil law is economic. And if you're talking about construction things, - construction things are actually... Well, everything you can imagine. It's not just building some skyscraper or something else. Therefore, without solving this problem, you will simply overload it. One more thing. There are also obligations arising from competition law... or something like that. Every complaint, every kind of like thing that's connected... It is also simply a huge amount! And that's only the court at first instance. After that... In the second instance there is a normal court, in the cassation instance there is a normal court. The concepts of such a court, the Court of Economic Affairs, are not, in fact, nothing at all. It is just a sign - we will have a new court, one that was in principle 25 or so years ago, in Soviet times, and which was wound up. The current Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan, is actually trying to restore what was left of Soviet times in some way at the moment. Why? Because there wants some of their judges, some of their influence, so that economic matters can be resolved with their political influence. And that is a fair answer. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported, because it is simply objective... a legal absurd, absolutely uncorrected proposal. Disputes, especially complex disputes, are mainly between more than two legal entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U357	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U358	I always like how my former... I literally enjoy how my former parties... not only two former leaders, but also the third former leader measured with taps. Well, it's just... who's where he's drawn, who's... Well, that's fantastic! I mean, those who at all... those little people who have done something else in the party... they just look and they don't understand if they've been there at all. But that's a derogation. When speaking about this speech by Mr Zakatistov, I remembered even by chance that “Latvian Television” had a very good story yesterday, where it was debated about taxes. The Zakaistov I mentioned was there... ( Insight: “Eglytus! ”) ) Yes, Gatis Eglitis... I am sorry, Mr. Eglitis, that I did not immediately remember your name; you always beg for me with Mr. Feldman. You were there, Mr. Eglitis, and there was also Nauri Puntulis. The debate was very nice, very interesting. You could see how coherent you are in that coalition. It was just fantastic, I liked it! Well, that's it. I don't know you like this... Well, how are you... I do not know how you behave, say, before and after the elections; I cannot compare. I haven't been with you in the same lot... and I don't know if I'll be. Well, I don't know. (Laughter) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) But let's say, what Zakaistov did was something! Sweet tongue, all these stories, so much talk, so much talk, that's all... Look, I've seen it somewhere. For the same... How many places we've been in there are, 150 places... And everyone... Come on... Yeah, you went there... On the ears... And what you did yesterday, Atty, didn't do there! Even the singers were sent to sing, I think somewhere... there's a bank... some kind of association there, if. Well, fantastic! We all know what it ended with. What did it end with? When you needed someone, you were generous with a sweet tongue. When you didn't have to, you showed the middle finger to all sides (I can't use rude words). And... Right? Just... Well, one quote... One quote that comes from a particular person. That man helped you with a lot of pre-elections. The man you came to, who welcomed you during the pre-election. And why am I saying that, Mrs. Moorier? I just don't know... Like the proposal... good or bad, I can't judge because if Zakaistov says something good... I don't know, I can't just believe him, because that man really has two faces. And now I'm going to quote briefly what Mrs.... Madame, who, with the best intentions, returned to life in Latvia and wanted to engage in the dirty policy of Latvia, wanting to do something good. And this quote reads: “After my criticism at the second party meeting Atis set his polite face and diplomatic talents and yelled on me with a red face as the most common man from the position of power.” You're such a guy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U359	Mrs. Liepaja, I understand, but I would still be grateful if Members were to debate the specific proposal. ( Milestones.) The other thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we are in Parliament and I ask you to use expressions that are linked with Parliament's dignity. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “But no one is respectful of this parliament!” ) I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained or added on behalf of the commission? No, it's not. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal submitted by Member Zakatistova. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 8, for - 48, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U360	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which clarifies the legal norm that cases on liability of a participant in a construction process are transferred to the Court of Economic Affairs. This proposal is supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Why isn’t the commission talking? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U361	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U362	Colleagues, you're over there, but... Indeed, this is my question. I have been far more than you before the courts, so I have to talk about this. 4. - Bordan's proposal is just... I call on you to really think rationally, logically. The proposal is as follows: the Economic Court of Justice will examine all building issues on which a building permit has been issued. Construction issues... If you read the Construction Law, then you can't build it if you don't have a building permit. This means that all issues of construction will now be questions of the Economic Affairs Court by its very nature. The law allows this: to transfer absolutely all construction issues from civil cases to one court, where there are 10 judges, not to look at all in Latvia. Every court... In every place, there can be a dispute that is being viewed... which can be handled peacefully, for example, in Kuldiga, but which will now have to be considered by the Economic Court. There's a program of the appearance of that court. Or, if not, corruption. How? In such a way that if we now begin to sort out what the judge may, what he cannot accept, what he wants, what he does not want to accept in the Economic Court, then in fact... It is not in any other procedural document that the judge himself simply decides... choose, this thing I like, this I take, but that thing I don't like, that I don't. In essence, by saying that this court is subject to all construction disputes and by giving the judges the opportunity to choose which case to take, which should not be taken... it can contribute to both corruption and to the apprehension of the court itself. I call on you to look pragmatically at that proposal and not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U363	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 1, for - 1, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U364	5. - a proposal from the Commission responsible, namely the Commission for Legal Affairs, which is related to proposal 2 and provides that cases of commercial secrecy are not within the competence of the Court of Economic Affairs. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U366	6. - A proposal from Member Ata Zakatistova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U367	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U368	Hello! With this proposal, both I and we, as a political group, want to set a 12 month limit in legislation, or such a desired period of review before a court of first instance. With regard to this issue in the Commission, there were two opposing arguments why such a time limit should not be imposed. The first involved overloading, which inevitably means redistributing cases, and the second involved quality. What I want to respond to these two counter-warning arguments is that I would like to quote experts again. And the experts in the same report that I mentioned about... time setting says the following... It is from page 137, and I quote: ‘The setting of time limits is only the first step towards continuous positive tensions in order to reduce the length of proceedings without prejudice to the quality of decisions. It is not possible to improve the length of proceedings without a strong commitment by the President of the Court and judges, as well as by the staff of the Court to comply with these time limits.” That is what European experts recommend and what I ask the legislator, the Saeima, to support here in this draft law. So time setting... in principle it is not about quality. Time-limiting... is not about overloading. Time-limiting... is about "continuous positive tension" (I'll quote again) because also tension... for the system to function effectively, the feeling that society expects efficiency from the justice system is necessary. It is not bad to set deadlines for legislation! It is right to set deadlines in legislation, because as legislator we can create this positive tension in the system, which could be the cause of the timely handling of cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U369	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Aldis Gobzems doesn't want to talk. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U370	Members! I will call for this proposal not to be supported, as it is the proposal of Ata Zakatistova. And every time Atis Zakaitistov comes with a proposal, I will come and repeat: he cannot trust it and he should not support it, no matter how good or bad it is. The only proposal that I would support is what Atis Zakaistov prepared... as in the law, where you are... Give that money to the party... When it is absolutely obvious that there will be nothing there, those taxpayers get some money back so that you don't make a chunk of shit, as I said earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U371	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U372	I will not talk emotionally; I am pragmatic about this proposal. The nature of the proposal is that a judgment in the Economic Court must be given within one year of the submission of the action. It has to be said that this proposal, whatever I have in principle claims against CPV LV, is logical in nature. And I'll explain why. Economic Court... Except for criminal cases... but there can also be found a certain logic... But the civil case... I mean, it's kind of... an instrument, an institution that meets two individuals... in principle - individuals... or in which a private person is suffering from a civil case with a public institution and where both parties are under an obligation to prove all... prove by documents their fairness, their interests and the like. So in essence... Since it is by nature the same civil structure, then this... then it will deal with something that is sometimes present - that the parties specifically pull something along. In technical terms, it is possible to pull the length of the procedure. How does it happen abroad? In different countries - different, but in principle there is also a situation where the judge says: "Dear friends, the judgment will be at the same date, after so long. By then you can bring me proof. There will be so many hearings, such and on such dates, you want - you come, you don't want - you don't want to come, you want - you want to prove your righteousness, you don't want - you don't want to prove your righteousness in civil disputes." So let's say in civil disputes fix (and go to it at least)... set time limit... the time limit within which the judgment must be given - there is a logic because, according to the idea, the parties to the dispute have an interest in presenting evidence themselves, it is in the interest of the case to be dealt with more quickly. And there can't be a situation... Except again... Well, there may be some one exception when you have to demand some kind of... I don't know, foreign expertise of some kind that can't be obtained in such a fast time. But there are actually no such cases. The parties then have an interest in the matter being dealt with more quickly when submitting these evidence. And it's not a question of judges, it's a question of interest to the parties. Therefore, unlike Linda Liepiņa, I conceptually believe that this proposal... in such a long time... thinking about developing the quality of legal proceedings in Latvia... That is the right direction if we are talking about civil law. We cannot talk about criminal law. Where is the problem in the proposal? We cannot talk only about deadlines without tackling the issue of pre-trial investigations, because in criminal matters, including economic criminals, we have a huge problem: there is a doubling, there is a repetition of the proceedings that must be carried out. In particular, it is for the court to carry out analogous, identical procedural acts which have been carried out in the pre-trial investigation. And that's the main reason why we have terrible long criminal cases. Because they question, I do not know, 300 witnesses and the same witnesses need to be heard again in court when hearing the case (the judge may not question them!) . It is completely absurd, not anywhere in the world. This is the main reason why there are long deadlines. In the criminal section of the question that we do not continue to duplicate the proceedings, we can reach some time limit. That's good. But it is in the interests of the parties to the proceedings themselves to set a time limit in civil proceedings. For let us be honest and impartial, there is no civil case that cannot be dealt with within one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U373	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? There is nothing to add. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Mr Zakatistova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 42, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U374	7. - A proposal from Member Ata Zakatistova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U375	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U376	The essence of the proposal is that the judgment of the Court of Economic Affairs cannot be appealed against at the appeal stage. This is absolutely absurd. I cannot agree here with Mr Zakatistova and the whole Group of the CPV LV because it is absurd to hide in it: if you say that these are the most difficult things that there are in economic disputes in general, and that they do not have an appeal process... if they are, from the point of view of the appeal, the most basic cases, where the dispute is EUR 200, it is a legal settlement. And that shouldn't be the case. In the normal justice system, the most complex court cases are examined in three-stage court instances - first, appeal and cassation instance. And it can't be that the most complicated thing is being viewed as... and it is possible to challenge it at least or in the same way as an accelerated process of the simplest case to which it has been facilitated. Therefore, this proposal in turn... Well, obviously you, a group, have a bad legal consultant. This proposal is simply a legal absurdity. I also call for it to be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U377	I closed the debate. I understand that nothing is to be added on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr Zakatistova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U378	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is partly supported and included in proposal 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U379	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U380	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible, namely the Legal Commission. It is of a technical nature, it defines cases where a natural or legal person has the right to bring a case, either himself or through a lawyer, before a court of first instance and at an appeal instance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U381	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U382	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. This provides: if a judge finds that the dispute is in conformity with the Economic Court when deciding on the progress of the application, he shall decide on the transmission of the application to that court. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U383	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U384	Colleagues, I invite you to listen. Civil law... How's it going? For example, you go to court and you bring an action in an incorrect court. You're wrong. This may happen. No court shall transfer a case to another court in any proceedings. It does not accept this case and indicates it! - the procedure in which the procedural... where you need to turn or... must follow some previous... out-of-court review procedures or refer to another judicial institution. What you want to introduce with such a proposal is that the judge of one court will decide what to see in another court. It is also an absolute absurdity. It would be right that when a judge receives an application from the ordinary court and finds that the case in question is referred to the Economic Court, he does not transfer it to the Economic Court, but takes a decision not to accept the case and indicates to the applicant where he is required to address it. Why? Because there may be a situation where a judge who has come up with a case before the Economic Court forwards the case, while the judge says to the Economic Court: “No, we don’t need it.... Well, not needed, but not subject to us!” And the football begins - a bust-up on the other side. A judge of one court may not order a judge of another court to bring an action. That's why I'm calling... This is a legal absurdity in this proposal from the Legal Office. I call on you not to support this, and I call on you: if you really want to do a good thing, do not do just elementary legal folly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U385	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U386	The Legal Commission agreed, in the debate and support of this proposal from the Legal Bureau, that this proposal should be clarified for the third reading. But now, at second reading, the committee responsible supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U387	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 46, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U388	11. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U389	Members want to have a debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U390	Colleagues, a very brief remark. Analogue argument as to all construction disputes. You cannot imagine how much competition disputes can be. Everyone can argue about infringements of competition law, each person can bring such action before the courts. This means that it can easily be overloaded. During the month, all cases of competition law in Latvia can be reconciled in that court. It's completely absurd! Construction and competition cases - absolutely all! - they'll meet in the same court. Ten judges will look at something that cannot be reviewed in time and quickly throughout Latvia. Now there'll be some ten superstar judges who'll look at the entire superfast, huh? Well, please don't make it absurd! At least set out some criteria as to what exactly competition matters or what specific construction matters may be subject to such jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U391	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U392	This specific proposal refers to the wording already endorsed at first reading that it will be a case of damages for infringements of competition law. However, the Legal Bureau drew attention to the fact that it was the first paragraph of that article, rather than the third part, which was wrongly supported at first reading. Consequently, I also said that this is a technical proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U393	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U394	12. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, which provides that no security shall be payable for the submission of ancillary complaints submitted in respect of decisions refusing to waive the payment of court expenses. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U395	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U396	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It provides for supplementing the Civil Procedure Law with a norm, which provides that when submitting applications for new examination of a case in relation to newly established circumstances, no security shall be payable to persons who are exempted from the state fee under the law. That a court or a judge may, having regard to the property situation of a natural person, waive, in whole or in part, the payment of the security. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U397	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U398	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. This is the case with the next proposal, proposal 15. The scope of the actions carried out by the bailiff when the proceedings are suspended shall be specified. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U399	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U400	And 15. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan, which has just been mentioned in the context of the 14th proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U401	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U402	We have therefore examined all the proposals received by the Commission. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U403	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 50, against - 28, refrains - not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U404	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for the deadline for the third reading to be set at 10 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U405	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda of the sitting. There are questions from Members that I have to inform you about. Members Zarins, Agešins, Klementjevs, Orlovs and Krišāns submitted the question ‘On the fulfilment of the task assigned to the Ministry of the Economy by the Electricity Market Act’, which is submitted to the Minister for Economics to reply. Members Zarins, Lochmele-Lunova, Tutins, Kucins and Dombrovskis presented the question “On the action of the Ministry of Economics in relation to the results of the “OIC power plants” tests”, which we submit to the Minister of Economics for reply. And Members Lochmele-Lunova, Orlovs, Agešins, Papule and Zarins presented the question “On the start of the heating season in Riga”. The word for motivation to Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “I haven’t asked!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U406	Hello, colleagues! I could justify this even if someone awakened me during the night. Currently, Riga residents receive questionnaires from “Riga House Manager” asking if they are ready to pay their apartment house debts for heating from house storage. People do not understand that this survey has a very important role to play. In particular, this survey replaces the meeting at which the decision could be taken. People are confused, they don't get the right information. But the most important thing is that RNP is currently the temporary board, the new term of the Riga City Council has not been approved, in Riga there is an absolute state... the absolute vacuum of power. But the heating season starts in October.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U407	Thank you for your motivation. The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U408	That is why we ask the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U409	Mrs Ločmele-Lunova, it is not possible to extend the speaking time on the motivation section. Please respect your colleagues. Dear colleagues, Please register the Members! Time for notifications. After 10 minutes, the Saeima at the guest hall meets the chairmen of the Saeima Presidium. Please pay attention - in 10 minutes! Let's start a little earlier. Name for reading the results of the registration to Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U410	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Inga Goldberga, Linda Liepiņa, Andris Skride, Mārtiņš Steins and Jānis Tutins. ( Interface: “Linda Liepiņa is! ” ) Oh, Tutin is. And Liepiņa is.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-03-PT13-2110-U411	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
