ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take office in Saeima's sittings! We will continue to examine the agenda for the meeting on 23 April 2020. On the agenda – draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Departments of the Republic”, second reading. Member of the Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform Jānis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U2	Yes, good morning! Thus, when examining the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Electoral Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania” (Sound Break.) ... adopted, and the Commission supported progress on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U3	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania” at second reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U4	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the amendments... Draft laws: Amendment to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Departments of the Republic of Lithuania at second reading: for – 81, not against and refrain from –.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U5	Thank you. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U6	The deadline for proposals is one week, which would meet on 1 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U7	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 May of this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic”, second reading. Member of the Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform Jānis Dombrava. Ladies and gentlemen, before the rapporteur starts reporting on the draft law, I would like to say that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Mr Rittvar Janson, who responded to proposals 2 and 4 submitted to this draft law. Therefore, Proposals 2 and 4 have been withdrawn. The name of the commission rapporteur, Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U8	So in this... In taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, and further destabilised A total of 13 proposals were received, of which two were withdrawn: proposals 2 and 4. 1. is the proposal of Member Ilze Indicicenes, which intends to increase the number of Members... the number of members to be elected in municipal councils of up to 30 000 inhabitants of up to 25, up to 60 000 inhabitants of up to 35 and up to 45 in municipal councils of over 60 000. This proposal was discussed in the Commission, a debate was held on how to ensure the representation of the citizens of the region in the new local councils, but the Commission did not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U9	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U10	Hello, dear colleagues! I prepared this proposal and presented it as an alternative to the proposal of the Group of the National Alliance for the direct election of the zero-level election, so that citizens can have real and direct representation in the new municipalities at least at the zero-level level, that is, on the rural and urban boards. Since the proposal tabled by the political group did not receive support from the Commission, I did not withdraw the proposal I tabled, but I would argue that it would provide real representation in the municipalities. This proposal would not apply to the capital city of Riga, where the previous number of Members would remain, but there would be significantly greater opportunities for representation in other municipalities (particularly where large districts are formed from small districts). Overall, as a result of this proposal, the total number of members in Latvia would decrease, but each, at least, existing... there would be real opportunities... the possibility for him or her to have access to his or her representative's office. I did not withdraw the proposal, but I do not request a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U11	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: 'I am voting! Vote, please! We ask for a vote. I voted!’ (Laughter) Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U12	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U13	Members want to vote in favour of this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – the proposal tabled by Member Indicices! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U14	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Result of the vote on proposal 1: - 13; - 47; - 24 abstentions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U15	Thank you. The proposal is not supported. Turn on the microphone for Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U16	Yeah. Therefore, proposal 2 has been withdrawn. 3. There is a proposal by Member Ilze Indricsones to eliminate the differences between the local elections and the city elections in the republic, in this case, as we are supposed to do by law, for the large cities - both of which would determine an equivalent number of members according to the population.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U18	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U19	Members have not applied for a debate, but Member Indriksone is asking for a vote on proposal 3. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – the proposal tabled by Member Indicices! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U20	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 3: -21, -60, abstaining -2.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U21	Thank you. The proposal is not supported. Please turn on the microphone for Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U22	Therefore, Proposal No 4 has been withdrawn. 5. is a proposal by President Egil Levit, which provides for electoral associations to be able to stand as candidates. The Commission held a wide-ranging debate on this issue, which resulted in partial support and inclusion of this proposal6. – a commission proposal which provides that electoral associations formed and registered in accordance with the procedure laid down by law, together with one or more registered political parties or an association of registered political parties, may participate in elections. Therefore, Proposal No 5 has been partly supported and included 6. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U23	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U24	Hello, colleagues! There is one problem here with this proposal. I would have supported it, but I think it should have been divided into large cities and small cities, because it is not really developed. And it's a pity that we can't make any more corrections. The idea is what? I'll tell you. Unfortunately, we have not developed a party system in Latvia in 30 years. We only have three parties that have been in existence for these 30 years. It is one Latvian party, one Russian party and one farmer's party, and the rest are for mutation (like the coronavirus)... organisms exposed to the mutation. So there's a problem – where will it go? On a regular party that has combined and after six months is unable to even bring 100 people to its general meeting... And so I think that here I should have been divided into the big cities really where these parties are – there should have been those lists from the parties. And, for example, agriculture... in some area, powerful... in the fields... Why could farmers not set up an electoral union properly, they can't... there is no need to discuss any international problems there. And so I think that this proposal is good, but it is not fully developed. And that's why I can't vote in favour of that proposal at all – neither in favour nor in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U25	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U26	I call on the President to declare a technical break and not to count this time, because we have problems with communication now and the image and so on.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U27	Yes, the Technical Department is also reporting today that there are problems with... communications. So the technical break by 10.30 a.m. Is that enough for 10 minutes? Yes, the Technical Department says yes. So the technical break by 10.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U28	Colleagues, the Technical Department reports to us that we can continue. We are back to the debate on proposal 5. Name to Member Viktor Valain. I'm sorry. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U29	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that I will definitely support the promotion of the President's proposal, which is essential in nature and aimed at extending democratic participation, namely that people have the right to group and nominate their representatives in elections, regardless of whether they have established a political party in good time or otherwise. And I think that the dynamics of today's political processes very clearly show that such preconditions, where we restrict the possibility of membership, are absolutely undemocratic, because demand and supply in politics are changing very rapidly. What is being done in the Commission, on the other hand, makes this proposal completely pointless in principle, by making it compulsory for these electoral associations to start together with political parties, which completely root in the idea of an independent opportunity to start in elections, regardless of forgiveness, political, as they say, a cartel. I therefore call on everyone to realise, however, that, if we do not support the President's proposal, the next proposal is an absolutely clear butaphoria and, in fact, such a laughter on this original proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U30	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U31	Yes, my fellow Members, I will keep on with what Mr Schmidt said and I fully join in, in substance: this proposal has not been partly supported. This proposal has been rejected in its entirety and it has been rejected in its entirety... be understood in the sense that voters' associations – they are, however, voters' associations, when citizens come together, and that is why they are created, because people don't just want to associate with a political party, they don't want to associate with the big parties. And what was mentioned in the commission as these good examples, which is currently happening in Riga, is that different neighbourhood societies conclude agreements with political parties... At times, of course, it seems that these neighbourhood societies are previously well-designed and established party branches, but yet for these neighbourhood societies, if they would like to start as a society in Riga City Council elections, the law now simply forces these cooperation agreements to be concluded with large parties, because the cities themselves cannot start. This is already prohibited by law. Of course, whether electoral associations need or do not start in big cities, that is another question, but in essence, the President has now submitted a call for the return of electoral associations in the draft law. The non-governmental sector has also pointed to the fact that electoral associations exist all over Europe. And in this case, it is the proposal that is being proposed... already have in the literally word branches of political parties or cooperation partners of political parties, as has been the case so far... At present, political party associations can be formed at the start of elections, cooperation agreements can be concluded with smaller parties, as this happens, can be concluded with associations, individual people can start together with political parties. It is quite simply a butaphoria, and it should also be said that the President has simply been sent back to the castle, rejecting his proposal. It has not been partly supported, it has been rejected. I call for this, and we are voting in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U32	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U33	Hello, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Overall, administrative territorial reform will result in larger administrative units. This means that the possibilities of self-determination for Latvians will be smaller, especially for those who currently live in smaller municipalities, which will be added to larger ones. And in the same way, paying taxes is an essential principle that if a person pays taxes, he must have a clear mechanism of how he can decide how to use taxes to improve his well-being. There are therefore also elections, so they must be sufficiently democratic and inclusive, so that their representation can be exercised by every citizen. And in such a situation, when we are reducing these opportunities with the creation of more local governments, we need to give something against them. Well, should not at least make their situation worse than the current situation, and therefore voters' associations should be allowed to participate in the elections. I think that is why the President is also talking not only about electoral associations, but also about the first level of governance... Well, not only the President, we and many colleagues and colleagues in the Saeima. This is the purpose of all these proposals. If indeed the Saeima will decide just like the Commission (supporting proposal 6) then it is true for colleagues that there is simply an error in the table here. The President's proposal is not supported in essence, as the President's proposal says that electoral associations can be formed, they can start in elections regardless of other political proposals. And the idea of this proposal is to make the situation so that electoral associations do not have to be accompanied, do not become satellites for large parties and sell the soul. Since I also call for support to be given to Mr Levit's proposal at the moment, not to 6. – a Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U34	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U35	Good morning, colleagues! If we look at the 5th proposal, it cannot be done without just seeing 6. And for the 6th, the first intuition – what is that? And so I also call on you to vote in favour of 5 so that the idea with which the President came does not disappear. Of course, I should also be interested and it is still to be fashioned – how it will work in nature for larger cities, especially for Riga. Perhaps you would also ask for some clarification of all this – how, but 6. ... the vision that appears at 6, is fantastic. There's... every village will make its own association, every party will fight to get this one, and let us not forget that after the election we will also have to work and work together. And who will answer for something? So, thank God for this is the second reading. I very much look forward to common sense and call now for support to proposal 5 so that the President's idea does not disappear and then goes back to the discussion, but now... Whereas, at the moment, the performance... I hope that this will not end in nature.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U36	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U37	Hello, colleagues! I join my colleagues in a lot of things. I want to talk not only about 5 but also about 6 at the same time. The practice has previously shown that in large regions, of course, over five thousand people, only political parties could start up, up to five thousand people could start up as well as electoral associations. And experience shows that very many small districts have been very active in the start-up of electoral associations and in some good there are six and eight. If we look at the results of the elections, they have also been in Latgale and have been very active in fighting for Members' seats. And if we look at paragraph 6, the electoral association must be registered in accordance with the law. This means what will be the status of that electoral association in the future? So it's going to be registered, it's going to have to keep its accounts? What will it do next? Because it'll be in the register. Will it have the status of an association? What status it will have as an elected association, but registered. This brings a lot of questions, a lot of questions. And that is why I am also inclined to support the President's proposal to have a debate further on these electoral associations. Because you know very well that these registered electoral associations... a very large number of citizens who have so far started in electoral associations will not come to these registered electoral associations. Please support proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U38	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U39	Dear colleagues, Just like the previous speakers, I will also call on you to support Mr Levit's initiative and not to support proposal 6. I would also like to quote Mr Levi's comments that led to this proposal. And that is, Mr Levit's concern that, after the reform comes into force, the right of electoral associations to participate in elections will be restricted because... According to the data of the Central Statistical Administration, if the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers was to be implemented, [...], as regards the reform, ‘in none of the districts would be less than 5000 inhabitants anymore. After the administrative territorial reform, the right of electoral associations of the City Council of the Republic and the District Council to submit lists of candidates of members of the District Council would in fact be eliminated and would remain only formally in the text of the law.’ I don't think... I do not read that Mr Levit would have liked his idea of the rights of voters' associations to be damaged in this way and the electoral associations would simply have been hanged in the Commission as such, I do not know, the accession to the parties. Please also read the letter from Mr Levit, which is also mentioned... the reasons why he felt that electoral associations were also one of the cornerstones of democratic policy. We call for support for proposal 5 and respect Mr Levit's... the law of the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U40	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U41	Yes, hello, colleagues! Thank you for your views. I would just like to point out that, according to the Commission's decision and also according to the legal technique, this proposal has been partly supported. Just as it is written in the table. As Mr Dombrava, the rapporteur, referred to this draft law, we really had a wide-ranging discussion about the electoral associations, we talked in the course of two sittings and we came to a number of conclusions... how electoral associations have functioned and what their future might be. What we see – already today, let us say, in several municipalities and districts, if there is a sufficiently active population group, it is able to establish a political party and stand as a candidate in elections if there is such a need. As far as electoral associations are concerned, at present, unlike political parties, they do not have strict regulation, there is no legal frame on how they work, if we compare them with political parties, it is linked to both... both the funding arrangements and the way in which this relevant funding is spent and there are a number of other issues. Voters' associations, too... One of the arguments put forward at the meeting of the commission is that there can often be problems with who to ultimately claim responsibility, because for one election, an electoral association is being elected, it is perhaps unable to fulfil the promises promised to voters in the programme, another electoral association is being elected for the next municipal elections, which is relatively easy to set up. And then what will we ultimately demand responsibility in front of our citizens? So, colleagues, I think, after a clear discussion, this proposal was partly supported by the Commission, and I call for the Commission's opinion to be respected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U42	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U43	On electoral associations, colleagues. I would like to point out to Mr Ples: the amount of working hours spent does not yet mean quality. In this case, we can look at the electoral alliances where they work. And for the political responsibility that you mentioned. In most cases, where voters' associations start up in elections, they start very well and are also elected several times, they are re-elected from one term to the next. And it only shows how well they work in Latvia. And of course the Union of Greens/Farmers also cooperates with several electoral associations, but they are individual, they are independent electoral associations. And in this case, they must find an opportunity to continue in some way too. Otherwise, I consider this proposal to be an instrument of political competition – simply to exclude stronger... stronger units from the political card and, as mentioned in the committee by a representative of the electoral association, I do not rule out that this proposal will come to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this vote to be considered.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U44	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U45	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! It is interesting to listen to and watch in this debate the name of the President of Latvia Egil Levit be called most and most victoriously today by those who voted against Egil Levit in the presidential elections. And almost it is claimed that we do not respect the right of President's legislative initiative, although these rights are, of course, respected, because that is why we are discussing and discussing this issue today, too. And I also have a very clear motivation from the President. The motivation of the President is to take care of, defend democracy, and democracy means that we do not need to agree on every issue, not just every senior official, that we can make every point of substance. And this is the question, where my opinion too... I do not agree with President-in-Office and therefore I will not support 5, nor will I support proposals 6 and 13. Why? Because, in my opinion, the fragmentation of power is simply not in the interests of local governments and is not in the interests of society either. Even now, candidates in municipal elections as well as other elections do not need to be party members. So they can be societies, they can be different groups of interests cooperating with parties, where already now... At least recently there were more than 60, perhaps, and I hope, however, that number will fall over time. Would it be necessary, and would democracy benefit from, that there would be an additional 40 different organisations, among which there would be no coordination, among which there would be more difficult cooperation opportunities? I don't think so. I believe, however, that this principle – where two Latvians, there are three parties or three different organisations – is that it is not the right principle and must go in the opposite direction. So I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U46	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U47	For me, it seems that the interesting thing here is not that, for example, I can support the President's initiative (although I have not voted in favour of him, I have voted in favour of myself), I think it is interesting that those who... themselves in this house called liberals, are those who actively combat this initiative. I'll remind you that the word "liberal"... root of the word... liberalty is freedom, that is, freedom of any civil society, and one of the highest political... Civil liberties shall have the right to participate without any restriction in the political process. In my opinion, this is an issue that opens up a broader debate about how much we have a democratic political process or those who have acquired power are trying to hold him by law. And liberal doesn't mean that everyone has to start from Development/About!. Liberal means that everyone has the right to his or her own opinion and free start in elections and to be elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U48	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U49	Cool Dzintar! I would also vote against Egil Levit as President today, but this is his initiative. Number one. Number two. Mr Ples, if we are talking about the change of names, then political parties are the most classic example of “Unity”, “New Unity”, “New Time”, “Citizenial Union”; the National Association with Raivis Dzintari has also changed numerous names, before “Fatherland and Freedom”, there was also “LNNK” and in this spirit. So the change of name as the main weapon of your argument is absolutely unconvinced. This is about actually strengthening the political party cartel, stealing power from people who want to vote for power in municipalities, so about their use of taxes. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U50	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U51	Colleagues! To Mr Pliesa, I would like to say that in order for a political party to be organised in a particular district that could defend the interests of the people of the municipality, this party would also need 500 members by law. And it seems to me that Mr Pleis is currently using his position as a service against competitors, against political competitors, against the next municipal elections, because such electoral alliances, which enjoy the confidence of the local people rather than vote in favour of the hairstyles and the presentation of Mr Bondara, will be a very large competitor for you, Development/About! And I would really like to respond to Mr Dintaras: we are not voting for the applicants, but for the proposals, unlike you, Mr Dintaras, who voted yesterday also against all the opposition proposals because they were opposition proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U52	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U53	Yes, hello, dear colleagues! It seems that some good Members have not yet wake up and are trying to call on different things by mixing potatoes with carrots together. The Union of Greens and Farmers did not support... probably also the National Union for Elections to get the National Union into the Saeima, but, as colleagues have said, we are really talking about the proposal, and it has now come to the conclusion that the President has put forward such a proposal, which our association also supports. Therefore, dear colleagues, however, wake up and understand what we are voting on, how we are voting. And I call on you, however, to support this proposal, President-in-Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U54	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U55	Colleagues, good morning! I would also call for support to be given to 5. – President Egil Levite's proposal, although, as Raivis Dzintars says, we have not voted in favour of the president. I don't... In the words of Mr. Plies, to say... I think it is not from its legal technique that we have not voted... we have voted against Levit, but we have voted in favour of another candidate. I think that's the difference. That's right. And again, Mr. Ples, that string of words that you are calling for the Commission's opinion to be respected is strange. You will then be able to invite you to respect perhaps the law, but the opinion of the commission... Why should we respect that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U56	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U57	And in addition, Mr Plesh, if we are talking about the responsibility of politicians and the change of fur, then your party is a very good example. Viņķele – how many parties have been from a conservative country party, finally to an ultraliberal, which now turns out to be not. Mr. Puce has been there for a time in Shleser's party, then he has been a Social Democratic, then he is liberal. Mr Bondara has changed his party, Mr Pabrik did not leave the “Unity” but was before he was in the “ People’s Party”. And that's the spirit. Look at your party members and then talk about this as a way to limit the wandering of people from one place to another.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U58	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U59	Yes, and a little more, Mr. Ples. At a break, ask your party member Mārtiņš Bondar how he has made promises regarding voters in all the parties and in all the positions where he has been. Ask yourself, perhaps a new revelation will arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U60	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U61	For the Commission, therefore... the accusations made by several opposition members are not correct. A representative of the Presidential Chancellery took part in all the meetings of the Commission, and as a result... Proposal 6 for joint cooperation, not for action against the President, or otherwise.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U62	Thank you. Please, let's vote! Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. – President Egila Levita's proposal! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U63	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 5: -13, -56, abstaining -15.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U64	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U65	Proposal No 6 was supported by the Commission. It provides for the addition to the first paragraph of Article 15 by a new paragraph, paragraph 4, in the version of... that an election shall be open to the participation of an electoral association which shall stand for election together with a political party or an association of registered political parties. This proposal was supported by the Commission after a long debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U66	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U67	Hello, dear colleagues! I have to explain the genesis of this proposal. It came about knowing... about knowing the result of the previous vote, or predicting it. With this vote, we have a situation where, technically, after... Following the rejection of the President's proposals, we will have to remove from the law the electoral associations outside as such, as a political form, because they will no longer have a role in the political system. Personally, I did not think it was right, and that is why, together with the President's administration, we made this proposal, which created a certain compromise and allowed these electoral associations to work in the future. I see this in the context of the administrative territorial reform in which we are dealing with two extremely important tasks. The first is the issue of efficiency of municipalities, and we are moving more or less forward – from 119 to 40 municipalities model. The second major issue in this debate is the democratic belonging to local communities and the strengthening of the cultural and historical identity of the population. However, this issue is being dealt with very little, because there is also no clear idea how we would do it. One of those possible ideas is the so-called zero level. I support it, as follows. It seems to me that it is very important that local communities can really retain the right to elect their Presidents and to deal with issues that are in agreement with them (e.g. the village, the small city). And if this idea gets progress in the future ( I hope it gets!) Then the question is: what is this political action? What's going to work there? Only individuals, associations will be active, or this historical form – electoral associations – which has been active in Latvia for many years, is popular and in which many people have participated? It seems that if we do not give up on it today, then this form will be deleted and then we will be another democratic entity...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U68	Thank you, thank you. It's over. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U69	Yes, colleagues, I will talk about this proposal. It essentially implies that... in principle eliminate the meaning of this electoral association because... I think it's... such a known fiction. Because if an association of people or a group of people in their territory wants to join, no matter what idea – or more green... or about the development of an object... or for other forms of management, they must be granted such a right. And the only reason they could form such an electoral association... Lens... There are political parties, no one prevents anyone from joining political parties and linking themselves to political parties. It's even good if people do it. But on the other hand, if they don't want to link themselves to political parties, then they don't have any other ways... to form an electoral association. And there are a whole series of territories where it happens successfully. With this proposal, we can say... only say this: you can form an electoral association, but you will still have to sign a contract with a political party. Still you will have to say that you go with a political party. And that is the biggest problem in this proposal. Let's be honest – here the President has just tried to keep his face and in some way... having sought some compromise proposal, anywhere at all, in theory, the concept of an electoral union appears. It has now appeared here, but it's a fiction. The essence is already – already right now! – can start in this way. I know that, in the previous Saeima, there were Members who had been elected, simply being in party constituencies, but not in any party... without a party. Well, now you are simply offering people forced to join a political party. This proposal will be challenged by the Constitutional Court. I think there will be electoral associations that will do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U70	Thank you. Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U71	Good morning, colleagues! I'll keep up with what Arville Asheraden said. I think it would really be a good model if the electoral associations had the opportunity to participate in the zero-level elections, that is, the parish or the city board... or the joint board... how it will be laid down in legislation. But now there are 5-10 (and even more) voters' associations already in certain municipalities, starting with municipal councils... and plus 10 lots... They are very fragmented, and it is very difficult in certain places... make really positive decisions in municipalities for citizens. And the second point. I would like to say that there are, at present, enough regional parties in Latvia to defend the interests of certain regions. And also creating larger municipalities... Thus, candidates of Members have the opportunity to apply in the lists of these regional parties, starting with Liepaja, Ventspils, Valmiera, Kuldīga, Daugavpils... And it could go on... There are very many of these regional parties. And the third. Really what Mr. Dzintari said... To the candidates for Members... in municipal elections, no party has ever insisted on being a party member. Usually, the most active and socially visible people are attracted by the parties, and they do not need to join in any party in order to exercise the powers of a municipal Member. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U72	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U73	I would like to make comments which I already made at the Commission's meeting on proposal 6. In my opinion, with this registered electoral association, institution or... What could it be called... similar associations or... maybe at some point it will be similar to local parties... duplicate the existing mechanism. In those regions, which were created in sufficient numbers during the previous reform period, where it was no longer possible to start, electoral associations have already developed and will certainly continue to form local parties that are not based on such deep ideological issues, but indeed on the interests of the local community. In my opinion, the example of Talsi is very bright. There are already two local parties in this district who, in my opinion, continue to pursue their policies successfully, local policy, economic... and the promotion of different interests at local level. And it ensures the long-term implementation of these political programmes, responsibility, succession... It is not seen, however, in the ideas of the electoral alliance... and projects that... sometimes one small project is created for implementation or implementation of the idea, and after one year or half a year its idea has already been implemented or is no longer relevant. Then everyone has long forgotten, before the next elections, which electoral associations have begun, what responsibility they have assumed, what responsibility they have promised for the next elections. It all starts with... Totally from zero. In my opinion, for the third reading, the combination of these two proposals mentioned above should be improved, which would apply to smaller regions, where there could be perhaps less than 15 000 inhabitants, and would, however, be an opportunity for electoral associations to start here without special registration. Because registration – this is already a halfway to the party. In my opinion, it would be better and more proportionate to assess the possibility of reducing these requirements for local parties... Maybe not 200 members, but less... Those electoral associations, which should be registered in the same way, should be able to replace their accounts and comply with other rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U74	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U75	Dear President, Honourable Members! This proposal, proposal 6, does not make any great sense, because now there is no law to prevent a party from standing with it, even if they are on the list. We already have such unique cases that a person does not join a party at all, but becomes a minister! So that we are at the forefront of democracy at all. But if seriously, then I also agree with the President in this respect that in fact the elections and also the municipal elections - that is, the school of political action, the school of democracy. Because it is normal that a person begins his career in a municipality, then he continues in the Saeima and government and then works in some international institutions. We often have the opposite – we immediately climb, become a minister and... There, we see, nothing can really be done. And then there's a second question. Historical experience shows that the restrictions that are introduced at the Latvian Saeima... None of them work. Let's remember, 1, 2 and 3. There was no interest barrier in the family! 5 and 6 were introduced. In the family four percent barrier, there is now a five percent barrier. And the latter was a ban on one person to stand as a candidate in several constituencies. As a result, the Saeima has become much worse and more fragmented – because when there was still one person in several areas, the party could get 25.35... Now that this man is in only one place, the rest of the areas do not vote for their party. As a result, we... we can no longer create a coalition without five parties. Therefore, I think the third reading should, however, consider the proposal for a two-part split... that in Riga... that in Riga and the big cities there are party lists, while the rest are electoral associations. Why? Very simple. We cannot believe that, let us say, the intellectual potential of Riga...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U76	Thank you, thank you. The speaking time is over. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U77	This is not even a butaphoria. This is a disgusting about democratic principles. If now X can form an electoral union... and will count it will be able to start in elections, for example, in Tukums... Go to such as Arta Kampar and pray for an opportunity, fantastic opportunity – to start with the list of New Unity together in these elections. And then Artis Kampars will tell you what is... the sales threshold. And tell me who will be able to start what – no. After all, if you disobey, the New Unity will be able to begin separately. And like any other party... This is objective... total ridicule for democracy. It would be better if there were no such form at all. And those who say yes, we have a complicated... then... split municipalities to the Saeima... Of course, it's difficult... the democratic process is complex. You understand! Free people with their own views – it's a complicated thing. Maybe we come back right back then... We had a time when we had one party in the country. Everyone thought that there was very effective governance. As I say, there were no problems. We also had a time when there were no parties at all and one person was ruling in Latvia, it is also an option. Just stop laughing! If you do not support the previous proposal, stop simulating democracy in this... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U78	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U79	Colleagues! I was very touched by what Aldis Adamovich said... that these electoral associations could be able to operate successfully in those places... as on the parish boards, for example... Similarly, as provided for in Article 11. – National Alliance proposal. That is why I am calling for the rejection of the 6th, also for the rejection of the 7th proposal. And then we would still have these electoral alliances in the draft law, and in this way we could incorporate into our third reading the fact that we have the parish boards, elected parish boards, and in them... electoral associations could also start there. And that would, however, be a step in the right direction, indeed in the nature of democracy. Otherwise... A representative of the electoral association took part in the Commission, who clearly said that he would turn to the Constitutional Court if such a norm would be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U80	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U81	No, there is nothing to add.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U82	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. – a proposal from the committee responsible. Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U83	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Result of the vote on proposal 6: 1 to 57, abstaining 25.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U84	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U85	7. – A proposal drawn up by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission to exclude the second paragraph of Article 15, which specifies which parties or associations may stand as candidates in regions with a population of less than five thousand on the day of the announcement of the election. In the absence of such a reform, this article is devoid of purpose.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U86	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U87	Colleagues! I would not say that this article is meaningless. In the very draft law... and during the consultation process... as I mentioned in the previous proposal... Thank you very much for listening and for reaching such a common understanding that proposal 6 is not acceptable. However, it should be understood that proposal 5 was not supported either. And if it is now supported by 7, then the electoral alliances as such will be eliminated at all. Therefore, in my view, proposal 7 should be rejected. Administrative territories... Reform Act... because this article deals specifically with electoral associations... I think they should still be preserved in the law at the moment, but I think here, with a specific argumentation. And its reasoning is as follows. The following are the proposals put forward by the National Alliance itself on these elected... on these parish boards... and that they should be elected parish boards. And that's where these voters' associations... we can adjust this to the third reading... precisely this section and to provide that voters' associations can be as independent, free to start on these boards, on the parish boards, perhaps on the counties. And that is also an issue that needs to be reviewed, I think. We can already determine that it is... After all, we have a whole range of regions with only 10,000 inhabitants, a little over 10,000 people, and there... I think Mr. Dombrava knows that... For example, in Saulkrasti District, the newly created, or... Well, in the same Livani region... Neither would I say that there are many people there... after the reform, there will be... So, I think, there are a number of places where we could look at and perhaps also let electoral associations start, not just political parties. But it is absolutely certain on the parish boards that I believe we should give an opportunity to start electoral associations. I think that would be the right way to go. And there's nothing to hide from democracy! That would be the right way, the right way in the right direction, and the political parties, the electoral associations...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U88	Thank you, thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, on Proposal No 7... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U89	There is nothing to add.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U90	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. – a proposal from the committee responsible. Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U91	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 7: 55, 11 and 16
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U92	Thank you. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U93	Proposals 8 and 9 – both are the proposals of Member Ilze Indiciceone and are linked. They intend to abandon the current formula for calculating the security deposit and introduce a new, more dynamic, more laconic, that the security deposit as a list of candidates for the elections to the Council is EUR 15 per elected Member. In the Commission, Proposal No 8 was examined and supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U94	Thank you. Proposal 8 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U95	Similarly with Proposal No 9, because they are related. This was also examined and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U96	The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U97	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – The Administrative Territorial Reform Commission's proposal to change the duration of the compartments on previous voting days, stating that on Wednesday it is from 16.00 to 20.00, on Thursday from 9.00 to 16.00, on Friday it is from 12.00 to 21.00. In fact, this proposal provides for this period to be extended. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U99	11. – National associations “All for Latvia!” – The proposal of the “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” political group, which intends to create a number of new articles in the law, which would determine the elections to the municipal and municipal municipal councils. On the part of the applicants, it was stated that this proposal would provide that after the current municipal elections... that one month later, the elections of the municipal town boards and the municipal parish boards, which would be fundamentally different from the elections of the district councils and the large city... elections. These elections would take place electronically, and applications would also take place electronically, either by submitting an application to each candidate himself in the portal Latvija.lv or by applying in the municipality, where it would be registered in the general system of Latvia.lv. The elections would also take place during the month on the portal Latvija.lv, where people, according to the declared place of residence, would have an opportunity to speak about which particular candidate they are ready to hand over their vote. This opportunity to speak would also be ensured... shall also be provided in the presence of the municipality. This proposal would therefore determine: if there were up to a thousand inhabitants, five board members would be elected; between a thousand and five thousand inhabitants – seven board members; and nine board members would be elected in places where there are more than five thousand inhabitants. There was an active debate in the Commission on whether this is the right place to anticipate the elections to these boards, whether this should be determined by a separate law or whether it should first be amended by the Law on Municipalities, first defining the functions and only then determining the electoral order... And in general... that such municipalities would... not municipalities, but parish boards and city boards would be elected. The votes shared by the Commission and the Commission rejected this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will work without interruption, look at the remaining proposals and then close the sitting. We launched a debate on proposal 11. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U101	I call for support for this proposal from the Group of the National Alliance, because this proposal on directly elected municipalities and city boards would provide a real opportunity for citizens to influence processes in the municipality. And I want to justify why this direct election is essential. At the moment, there are institutions such as consultative commissions or parish consultative... the different organisations used by municipalities in their work (more successful elsewhere, less successful elsewhere). But the composition of these commissions usually... confirm currently the Council. So they are politically approved. And to have a real population in these missions... I mean, the mandate is given to people... it is important that they are directly elected, because then it will not be important to have political affiliation... There can be no chance of any kind of political force, but really, man will be interested... and he will have authority among his parish or residents and will be elected, and will have legitimately entrusted functions, to be laid down in the Law “On Local Governments”, of course. Therefore, I think it is important to include this proposal in this law at the moment – it is about directly elected municipalities and urban councils – in order to then develop and incorporate the corresponding functions into the law “On Local Governments” and directly allow every citizen to obtain their representative in the zero or the parish... at the level of boards and city boards. Until now, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has supported the creation of such advisory councils or boards, but I have never heard any support in negotiations on this – it is said that they will be directly elected. I very much look forward to the support of other cooperation partners, as this is the most important issue in particular for the rural and local... the urban population of small municipalities. This question... it would also have a much more significant impact on representation in municipalities, because participation in various electoral associations... in the wish of the dome... provide much less opportunity to influence the processes... than directly elected municipalities and city boards. I invite you to support...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U102	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U103	Yes, colleagues, this, however, is, in my opinion, a very decisive proposal in particular in the electoral law. Because if we're talking about zero level, some level of government... in municipalities, not to mention functions or their size, which, of course, would be worth talking about... How many of them... How in the territories they're about... about to look... In a way, it is also in line with what the President of Latvia said: that in this process of reform it is important to answer to the maximum... all questions. And now this is one fundamental issue where... I would like to thank the Members of the National Alliance, colleagues, for this proposal that has been tabled. That's it. If we are talking about zero-level governance, one thing is to decide at all about creating such a governance model, the other is to answer the fundamental question of whether they are elected or appointed administrations... the designated bodies? And in this law... By voting in favour of this proposal, we would make it clear that they have been elected, that the citizens themselves are the ones who choose these boards, and that they are elected. And later we would give a task to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in the work on the law “On Local Government” – to determine what its functions could be, assuming that they were elected units. And only in this way could this management function be successfully ensured. And this is the right place. I call for support. I think that, as a basic proposal at second reading, it is conceptually well developed. And while we're working on it, we could stick it to the third reading. But I am now calling for this proposal, concrete one, to be supported and to continue to work within the Commission. Colleagues, I call for support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U104	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U105	Dear colleagues, I think, in principle, there's enough... reasonable ideas, perhaps the direction is very correct, but I think it is not really voting today. There is a need for further, very further debate; this will be a further moment from today, when we will be able to discuss this in substance, because, I will remind you, we have not yet decided how many levels of administrative breakdown in Latvia will follow the administrative territorial reform if that is the case in the near future. That is, we remember that we have a version of two. This is another third. We have not said that the second level of administration... The second... in the administrative breakdown... whether it is elected or not, but we are already going to see the order as it will. In my opinion, that is the sequence of an acgar in nature. This is paralyzing the debate on this proposal, which is perhaps even reasonable and logical in general. If it happens that one of the three possible models... We still have a discussion ahead of us. Therefore, I would not want to vote 'no', but I cannot vote 'in favour' either. This will be the time when I will abstain or vote, but not because I would have something very controversial in substance, but because it is absolutely right now under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U106	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U107	I ask you to combine the times of the debate so that I have three minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U108	Are there any objections to the merger of both times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U109	Dear Members, There are very, very different models in the world for municipalities. One example is Estonia. The one who will count us as executive officer in Estonia is the mayor of the city. Also in Finland. Also elsewhere... There's government on the ground as well... I also understand very much the desire to keep in touch with such a small local community. Of course, it's good if there's someone wanted to be there, but... I've never heard there's a whole institution there... We could talk about the concept of an individual who would have been directly elected, but then first we would have agreed which functions would then remain for the people, the local communities, the elected... Well, a local representative. First we have to talk about the functions, but now... Well, now, for this moment, it all looks like... The question – what will the elected municipality do at all? 'Cause, when all the governments come up everywhere... in this way, also in the city centre... Well, that experiment, I think, is still very, very green. If necessary – and most likely necessary! – to discuss how to avoid being a small community without its own representation, without our own local authority, then we can wake up quite quickly. These would be functions that Latvia should not lose. These are functions related to maintaining local self-employment, with the communal economy; they are perhaps social functions... But otherwise... Without discussing this, let alone, we will only programme permanent, huge disputes between the boards on the first level and their elected powers, which are... to all the tips... This will certainly not stimulate joint work. That's why... Here I get to speak against my colleague, but... I think it's just like this experiment before it's skinned... is extremely dangerous even to talk and create... I don't know. So far, all this looks like that – let's do it and then let's see what's happened. I call for a return to this debate, from zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U110	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U111	Well, I would like to say to my colleagues here, including Mr. Schmit, that there is no option at present other than this: to support proposals of this kind. Because otherwise we'll get regions... huge regions where... such a form of administration is simply in nature never... Otherwise, it will never be implemented. And such a conceptual proposal... as it is currently written... if it would receive support from the Saeima, it would send a clear signal to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in that direction as well. Currently in that direction of action... is absolute zero. Nothing is done about the creation of these elected associations. That's just a reservation, but... Any law... About some functions, about anything else... None of this... There is no talk at all at any meeting, anywhere. All this – it is simply politically blowing in the eyes of the mist that something will probably ever happen. So to take now is one direction to be...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U112	Thank you. The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U113	Okay, Victor, I guess you convinced me. If this is even an attic and not on its part, but a step in that direction, so that there would be an administrative division of two levels in Latvia, for which I am absolutely sure – let it be! Let's take this step! And I will also support this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U114	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U115	However, I tend not to support Valaiņa's proposal, but to support what Kučinska said, because the parishes are very different, also in size. There are parishes with only 400 inhabitants, and there are 900, one thousand, more than one thousand, and there are five or six thousand inhabitants. Even though... Here the graduation is also set, but... I'm more inclined to be elected to be the head of the parish board, the chairman or what he's called... But whether another body – the board – should be created again, I deeply doubt. Today, there are also very many parishes in the large districts, which already exist today: in Daugavpils municipality – 19 parishes, in Rezekne municipality – 30... at 30. This means that once again, this municipality will have these large institutions with numerous board members. Yes, you can set up a consultative... Well, this is a subject for discussion... It may also be possible to set up Advisory Councils. But – are the boards? That would be one. Second. Will the boards also be paid as jobs? That's also a good question, because if these board members come to their meetings, then they'll also... will also demand remuneration over time. I don't think they're just... Looking like in the municipality Members... In view of this, the members of the Management Board will also request their contribution. So I ask you not to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U116	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U117	Colleagues! I would like to congratulate you on this excellent debate. In my opinion, there must be such a debate in Parliament. And it's not a shame, it's nothing to take away, that we change our views and listen to each other's arguments. And I would be even more happy if we had such a debate on many other issues as well. So, thank you again.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U118	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U119	Questions have now been raised in relation to this proposal as to whether it is intended to make these boards payable. No, no! They are intended to be built on a voluntary basis. And more. It is important to note that the letter sent by the President to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission contains a separate chapter on local communities, which are as administrative units with their representation. There, all this is more extensive and any Member can get to know the President's argument about why it would be important to ensure that local communities also participate in the work and defend their interests. So I would remind you once again that the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance. Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U121	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Result of the vote on proposal 11: 19, 43, abstaining – 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U122	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U123	12. – Proposal of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, which provides for the exclusion of the words “and the exclusion of the second paragraph of Article 2 of the law” in point 14 of the transitional provisions. This is about amendments that we have already supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U124	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U125	Colleagues! I will take the opportunity to draw attention to this proposal... All of you, colleagues, have a... Proposal No 10 that we supported... I would like to say that it will be necessary to give serious consideration to the third reading, because in the commission after... In my opinion, the procedure was not followed in its entirety. And realize how... information on how much the proposal 10 pays has not really been provided to Members of the Commission and Members of the Saeima. After the Central Electoral Commission... On the basis of information at least available to me (I think colleagues will also receive it), proposal 10 costs EUR 670 000. And nowhere, anywhere, at any time, it's agreed where this money will be taken from; it's simply said that it's going to have to get money somewhere. That is why I am calling for the third reading to be taken seriously. This is a particular brother in this law. And it's one example of this remote... this procedure is not working to the full on the issues under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U126	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is a vote required on proposal 12? No answer. So the 12th proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U127	And 13. – Proposal from the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. It provides that by 30 September 2020, the Cabinet of Ministers must submit to the Saeima a draft law providing for a procedure for the establishment, registration, operation and financing of electoral associations as legal persons. This proposal was supported by the Commission. However, if in the draft law we have rejected proposals 5 and 6, then... it changes the substance of this vote. But in the commission – I repeat again! – this proposal was supported. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U128	Colleagues, this relates to proposal 6, which has been rejected and cannot be examined. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “How is it not considered?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) Not to be considered. This is linked to the 6th proposal, which we rejected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Well, that’s just... We rejected 6, but this proposal is, by its very nature, a completely alternative proposal. It implies that the Cabinet of Ministers has the task of determining the order... “ All right, colleagues! If Members request a vote, then we shall vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “I would like to debate.” ) We then begin the debate. Open the debate! If we decide to examine it, we will also debate it. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U129	Colleagues! This proposal, in my opinion, is more related than to proposal 6, but to proposal 7, because its problem... It was precisely the 7th proposal that excluded electoral associations as such from this draft law. And this proposal provides for... I call, however, for this to be supported so that, in some way, electoral associations remain and that some way out is to return to them. Otherwise... Right now, we are completely excluded from the legislative alliance, they simply don't exist anymore, and we will now be one of the... Well, in the European Union, perhaps even the only country where there are no voters' associations. I do not know, it is difficult for me to imagine another country where there are no electoral associations. And in this case, they are simply excluded from... in general from the electoral principle, from electoral legislation. Think, colleagues, of international organisations that care about democratic principles. Now think for yourself how all the supporters of democracy will be able to look in the eyes afterwards, after what we have done today. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. It will be like that, well, at least the starting point, so that in some way we can go back to the electoral associations even in any form in the future... further legislation... I invite you to come back to them, though. In my opinion, the Saeima has made a huge mistake today by voting on the previous proposals, excluding them completely. We can go back... in municipalities where up to 15 thousand people... Let these electoral associations begin peacefully! Nothing bad will happen. There would be a need for a discussion on the substance. And this proposal, I think, should be retained in this bill, so that at least something...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U130	Thank you, thank you. Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U131	Yes, colleagues, that is the situation I warned of. This was not difficult to predict when proposals 5 and 7 were adopted. So – we have completely eliminated the functions of electoral associations, and therefore they also cannot be preserved in the law. And this is a conceptual decision at second reading. The proposal 13 is neither put to the vote nor to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U132	I closed the debate. Colleagues, we agreed to debate and to vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. – the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U133	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 13: - 10, - 54, abstaining - 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U134	Thank you. The proposal is not supported. Turn on the microphone for Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U135	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the City Council and the District Council of the Republic at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U136	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U137	Just a second, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U138	Not yet ready... Thank you. Let's go. Turn on, please, the representative of the microphone voice counter, Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U139	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of voting on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” at second reading: for – 56, against – 14, abstains – 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U140	Thank you. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U141	The deadline for submitting proposals is one week, 1 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-24-PT13-2067-U142	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 May of this year. Colleagues! We have examined the agenda for the extraordinary sitting of 23 April. I informed you that the Bureau was planning to convene an extraordinary meeting on 24 April, and it could be in about 20-25 minutes... Please follow me. Thank you. So I closed my extraordinary session on 23 April.
