ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U1	We can start. Hello, honourable Members! We will continue to discuss the agenda for this meeting on 26 May. On the agenda: draft law on administrative territories and settlements, third, final, reading. Member of the Commission responsible, Arturs Toms Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U2	Hello, colleagues! We continue to work with the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Residents” (No. 462/Lp13) at third reading, with table No. 2521A. We got up at 175 yesterday. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal, which was the subject of a debate. As I said, the independence of this county of Pargauja... the maintenance of a separate county was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U3	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U4	Thank you. Hello, colleagues! Continuing the debate on this proposal. Viktors Valainis has already started and said that personally he does not know the criteria in which rural areas and how public transport is organised free of charge for people. I can answer Viktor Valainys that the criteria are clearly defined, they can also... I personally share on my Facebook page all the latest information we do in the Ministry of Transport. One criterion is population density – less than 4 inhabitants per square kilometre. The second criterion is that the State subsidy over costs is higher than 85 per cent (or the bus load is on average less than 2,5 passengers). Consequently, these criteria are met, the bus on the route is free of charge for all passengers wishing to use its services. I would like to say otherwise, of course, that I am still in favour of adding Cesis to Pārgauja district and not maintaining its support within its existing limits. Because, as I said, this region is going to... the competition has already been launched and a new regional road for easy access to Cēsis will be built, the only gravel section between villages Auciems and Raismas is repaired, thus facilitating mobility of people in the region and getting to the future centre of the district. That's why I'm calling...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U5	Thank you. The speaking time is over. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U6	Hello! Continuing with what my colleague, Mr. Butan, I just wanted to talk about the fact that the Ministry of Transport is thinking not only about public transport system reforms and development, including free routes, but in this particular... With regard to the Pārgau region, it is a good thing that the road is also being repaired, this gravel link, which Mr Bhutan mentioned (now it is also in the plan) and which connects Auciems and Raismu. Yes, it is a local route – 287. – Of course, it can be said that it may seem... Since minor improvements are in general in the strengthening of the connection, but... and can be said that it is perhaps short – there is about one and a half kilometres, but in any case, each such step is, in my opinion, the right direction. So I must say thank you to the Ministry of Transport, which is working in several directions at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U7	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U8	In the Commission, the 175th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U9	Please call me! We will vote for 175. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 1, against – 56, abstained – 25. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U10	176. - also a proposal by Mr Valaiņa. Also on the maintenance of the Pārgaujs region within its existing limits, stating that the administrative centre is Stalbe. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U11	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U12	This is an identical proposal to the previous one and does not change anything in principle, as the administrative centre is now also Stalbe. I think that proposals that duplicate each other should be withdrawn at all so that we do not delay the adoption of this reform, because we cannot delay not only this reform, but we have many very important reforms ahead of us, including university reform, including port reform and other reforms that are really very important. It can only be delayed because so many proposals have been submitted in the context of administrative territorial reform. So, if possible, really please Viktor Valaini to withdraw at least those proposals that duplicate each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U13	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U14	Mr. Butane! Do not take it personally, but do you not really feel how ambitious your continued speech is? If you think Members need to be enlightened about the history of each district, then you're wrong, mostly at school level. Most know it and at a much deeper level. Who does not know, I think, they will weigh themselves if they need to know. With regard to road level in each county. I believe that you not only know the level and number of roads well, but also the number and location of bus stops, but these tours are in most cases unnecessary. Every moment you try to humiliate – either Viktoras Valaini or another of your opponents. The political culture also includes respect for opponents, not trying to pull out everything you know about them at any time. In municipal matters, no matter how you try, at least for the time being Valaini will not beat you. In terms of language culture and language logic, Member Sergey Dolgopolov is the one from which Latvians, including you, would have much to teach. I am not going to instruct you or tell you how often you have to speak. Only – the importance of what is said is not proportional to the length and frequency of speeches. Speaking, of course... Speak, of course, as much as you want, only to listen to your long tirade does not really bring any joy. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U15	Colleagues, I call for a return to the debate on the 176th proposal tabled by Mr Valainis. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U16	Thank you. Hello, colleagues! I will talk not only about the 176th proposal, which has already been partly debated yesterday and today, but about the problem of having this kind of long, not always fruitful debate. It seems to me that there is a problem here that the drafters of the reform have not thought about how to do the right thing in this situation. First... Well, it was said that here will be repaired sections of roads, even named a section of roads – 17 kilometres long road from Cesis to Valmiera highway – that bridges will be renovated. It's all very beautiful. But if we reform the municipalities by increasing their territory, it would be important to look at how this project is viewed from all the ministries. Let us tell you how the Ministry of Health plans to organise a health care network in a territorial dimension, including rapid medical assistance, as the Ministry of Education and Science, by ending its bloody war with universities, intends to create all types of educational institutions in new territories and how they are prepared to attract the necessary investments. And so on, and so on. On the one hand. On the other hand, in preparing the reform, we have forgotten that two very important laws are missing here. The first law is “On Municipalities” in a new version, which is extremely important in determining first and foremost what new autonomous functions will be. Today, they are formulated in a rather vague way, so let us say, an example that the autonomous role of municipalities is to ensure that citizens have access to healthcare. Is it a asphalt road or is it a healthcare facility? And so on, and so on. The second law, which is lacking at present, is about the financial side of municipal activities – how financing for municipalities in the new circumstances looks. The whole complex also depends on whether or not investment will come. Because, as Andris Kazinovskis correctly pointed out, a person with a lot of experience – that rather than the size of the territory or the population is the determining ones. There are several factors that need to be taken together. And that's why... It also led to... The lack of this condition has led to a very large number of proposals coming up and not quite a constructive debate on this. I very much appreciate Mr Valaiņa's professionalism and especially his ability to work. In this case, his argument about adding Pārgauja district did not convince me, but such a discussion is necessary in order to make an optimal decision. This is important. And, by the way, maintaining roads at a high or normal level is in no case related to the ATR context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U17	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U18	It is interesting to hear from Ms. Janina Kursīte-Pakule's praise for the work of the Central Committee of the Latvian Communist Party. I... I must apologise for the fact that Mr Dolgopolov has been dragged here in this debate on the proposal. I've never talked about him, at least today. And I... The question that arises to me is, and is, unanswered, why there is no claim for these duplicated, incoherent proposals and then not withdrawn, but in turn there is a claim that, here too, the position Members are using this opportunity and telling us about each proposal, including the life of the municipality concerned, development, investment in infrastructure and so on. Why don't you have the courage before... For example, the long debate that took place at second reading... I have not heard a great deal of claims there against the long debate, which I think were really unconstructive and where a wide range of things went on to take place on various proposals. In this case, if we are talking about proposal 176, where simply technical almost one word is different from 175, I think it is right to ask these questions how meaningful it is at all. And I think for lessons, calling for good examples of dubious reputation people, I think there is no place here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U19	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U20	Hello, dear colleagues! This time I'll agree with those new groundboard walkers. To be honest, I have an additional question to ask Mr Janis Butan, who is showing such a certain degree of experience when it comes to regional reform of local governments (for example, when it comes to Skrivers, when it comes to referring to the Skrivers Gotins), which, in my opinion, is an approach based on such good life experience and practice, well. I actually have a question about that... His advice would be very important. I know that there are several Norwegian-owned shops in Latvia that sell Brussels waffles. They are arranged in a different place in each of the shops, and not always when you enter Norway... In food stores owned by the people of Norway, they can be found. Perhaps it can also be arranged here by proposing a proposal so that all the buyers (and I hope Mr Bhutan likes Brussels waffles) can find them easily and quickly. I really appreciate these... these frequent speeches and also, well, their content. I think that in the friendly call of Cesis State Gymnasium teachers are very pleased to see his presentation, his content speeches. I recommend talking more often. Thank you. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U21	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U22	I would very much like to ask Mr Feldman to look in the mirror before deciding about reputations – questionable or beautiful. Thank you. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U23	Name to the Member... Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U24	Yes, another eye is visible, in his own – the logs do not see. If I speak at least in all my speeches about a specific proposal - also in this particular case of the Pergau Region - the others do not know why there is a debate about Brussels waffles and some kind of beauty and misdemeanour, not what is right or wrong in this proposal. In a way, thank you also for having looked at where I was studying, and you can see that I really am proud of my school. I also think the teachers who have taught me, or the school director, I think, will not be disappointed with the debate – that someone is finally debating the proposal. And they will also agree that this region of Pargauja should be added to Cesis and the debate really takes place on the specific administrative unit... the geographical nature in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U25	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U26	Thank you. Mr Butan, you do not understand again and again, and I try here all kinds of teaching approaches, but obviously not suitable for ordinary education. (Laughter) I already support your efforts; I also say that your former gymnasium teachers are proud of you. Most likely I think it is necessary to introduce a survey to find out how proud they are at the moment, despite the fact that there is a time of exams and that, in fact, vacations or preparations for the next school year are also coming at a distance. So keep going! I call on you to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U27	I closed the debate. For the Commission Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U28	In the Commission, this proposal is to build... To maintain the Principality in its existing areas – did not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 176. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! To -7, to -59, to -19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U30	177. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It shall provide for the maintenance of the municipality of Vecpiebalga within its existing limits. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 177. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 3, against – 54, abstained – 26. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U32	178. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It also provides for the maintenance of the municipality of Vecpiebalga in its existing territories, by stating that the municipality is the administrative centre of the municipality. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U33	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U34	Thank you. Dear President, Honourable Members! I also applied for the previous, but interesting: I press, but it is as late as applying. Why am I going to vote in favour, and why would I call for support, however, for this district of Vecpiebalga? There are, in my opinion, some things. We are based on development centres, but we have, however, forgotten and, to some extent, ignored these cultural and historical regions. Here I would like to remind you that Vecpiebalga is not already an industrial district, and there will also be no change if we add it to Cesis or some huge county, but we will break down the tradition of the history and culture of the Vecpiebalga. It was not only that Karlis Slāne or the brothers that wrote “The Times of Mayors”, or Antons Austrins, that were born there were book publishers such as Jānis Rose or Jānis Ozola, or Garlībs Merķelis was working there. The particular feature of the Old Pleasure District is that even before the abolition of birth, farmers were granted land for use, which they still bought out and there were practically no new farms (i.e. 11 hectares or 22 hectares of bi-horses as a result of agrireform), but there were mostly 50 hectares and larger farms. It created completely different cultural environments. We also know that there was a free country in the Old Priege, or... Just as there were chandeliers in Kurzeme, there were leimans in Vidzeme. There is also a branch of the Latvian Ethnographic Open-Air Museum in Vēverai. So this is, in my opinion, an extremely outstanding cultural region. So that we don't forget that we are (and people are also blaming it)... that this reform is a reform of the political influence of the distribution of structural funds and the parties, then I think that nothing would change completely in Latvia if there were cultural regions such as the Old Prielga or Selija that we would have to follow. Thank you and I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U35	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U36	I have to agree with Mr. Kirstein that this... on the municipality of Vecpiebalga is the basis for a discussion. Well, when we talk about proposal 178, this too, we see, in itself, does not differ substantially technically from the previously rejected proposal 177, with one word again. In fact, a duplicate proposal. In any case, if you're talking about the substance, then I have the feeling that, well, this is a cultural and historical factor... the cultural and historical factor does not necessarily overlap entirely with the way the administrative territory should look at. The administrative territory is what we are talking about right now, well, in this context of this draft law. It is clear that cultural-historical aspects will probably have to be taken into account in the discussion where we will discuss precisely these cultural-historical aspects. When it comes to whether people in the municipality of Vecpiebalga feel something or not, or what kind of support they feel from the country. For example, at this time too, the good news is that it is intended to restore the asphalt road surface to Bērzkraga at a sufficiently long stage, in my opinion, about 10 kilometres. It could... This is precisely important for the Covid-19 due to the... These additional 75 million will partially disappear there. Well, maybe it will directly strengthen this link for the local people with their potential new centre of administrative territory. If we are talking about cultural and historical aspects, then we already have this law... We must remember that there will be a number of things that will result... All the tasks are given in this draft law, firstly, there is also a task for administrative regions, and secondly, there is also a task to work on... We have also voted on cultural-historical areas and how to preserve and strengthen them. And then, for me, the logic that I use is that that discussion should be there. Thank you to the Ministry of Transport for the fact that, too, of these 75 million inhabitants of the district of Vecpiebalga, there will be some benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U37	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U38	Thank you. Yeah. One thing I wanted to say. Economically, Vecpiebalga is a self-sufficient region in the sense that there is, say, dairy farming, farming, there is a porcelain factory, there is a farm. Whether they join or will not join, let's say, the county of Cesis, there will not change anything, because there's practically little going to Cesis to work. I understand that this is good, but the problem is what Mr. Kazinovsky has pointed out – if we had the second level municipalities, this county of Cesis would be a county and then, of course, there would be no problems. But now call it a district and think that Cesis would have something... Oldcomers would have something in common with Marssenne or that they would be very happy to do something there – nothing will change. But we only destroy what I have already said – the impact of cultural sites. If you talk about Cesis as an economic towing force, well, you know, there's half of the population going to Valmiera to work, yeah. Cesis is also, to some extent, industrially more related to Valmiera than to the Old Piebalga. So there's no big point. You can do that, but I think in Latvia... I also agree with Mr Feldman here, although I have to say that their highway... has already been built. There's no problem, let's say, asphalt both to Newward and to Cesis. But I'm just sorry. Well, why couldn't it be, let's say, some two or three of the cultural novels? That would absolutely not change anything. That would be an exception. But we're more ruined than we're building something again. So, as I said, the same are the Suiti – in the same condition. Yes, I agree, maybe there will be this law on cultural regions or something like that. But that doesn't change the substance. It is not warm, nor cold for the old man who, to be honest, yes, will only get worse – that they will be added to the county of Cesis. There will not be any factories from Cesis, and there will not be any great point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U39	Thank you. Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U40	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would also call for support for this proposal because, as the previous speakers have said, we have managed to reprogramme funding on regional roads too in due time, not only on roads of major importance for the country, in order to sort out both the stage to Bērzkrag and beyond. Of course, at present others have the opportunity to cut strips and boast about the work they have done, but in many places these plans have already begun, both after education reform and after administrative territorial reform in the future. What would be very important at the moment when the law is adopted... maybe not even accepted... already at the moment “Latvia’s State Roads” are designing technical projects so that this funding, which has been granted in addition, can be used and actually built both in this year and next year. The most important thing is that, even after the municipal elections in 2021, this funding would be both in 2021, 2022, 2023 and beyond, until we can cover at least part of the national budget's funding path from the new programming period of the European Union. So, colleagues, I would also call on you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U41	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U42	I want to join Alexander Kirštein in the opinion, because the Vecpiebalga region as such... it is how to say, with its character. I know many old-fashioned people, really many, because old-fashioned people in their lives are usually killed in many places and often come to work in Riga, which is why both old-fashioned men and Cypriots cross. One with... When they meet each other, they also exchange views on how they should be. In fact, the situation in the municipality of Vecpiebalga is now that there are no big entrepreneurs who would give a lot of jobs, but the region is more characterised by the fact that there is more craftsmanship, a craft business, some farm meat processing... Okay, the biggest thing there was, the farm. Or there's porcelain... or bread bakery and similar, but such a great economic towing force is not really there. Of course, if a person moves to the beautiful town of Vecpiebalga to live... Of course, it will be difficult for him to find the job if he does not know what to do. So whatever... how strong and culturally historic a region is, I must say on behalf of progress, but I am in favour of adding the municipality to Cesis, because the municipality of Vecpiebalga alone is not able to provide the services that the municipality needs to provide, for example, health care. Nor is it known about the education of interests, whether their education is sufficient. Maybe it'll be necessary... It will be more achievable in the town of Cesis... And other things that are more widely available in Cesis than in the Old Reward. The bus... Public transport is satisfactory with the city of Cesis, it is convenient to travel by car to the city of Cesis, therefore, I call on this proposal not to support and vote in favour of the addition of the Old Prize to Cesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U43	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U44	Hello, dear colleagues! My colleague Alexander Kirštein's speech is practically... gave rise to reflection. Once again we are looking for some template – centres around centres – we are trying to create new regions, but that template is hardly suitable for Latvia. It is not possible to create these regions after one template, because Latvia is unfortunately very different at the moment. One situation – in Riga, Pierīga, another – in Vecbalga, in Jaunbalga, another – in the border, another – in the sea. In my opinion, the same template is wrong to use, and in this case I agree with Alexander that here too, in the middle of our country, this municipality of Vecpiebalga could probably be because of the cultural and historical roots, the identity of many communities in Latvia should be taken into account. I would like to say once again that when you look at these questions about communities, about identity in the Commission in the past... I have to apologize for both the seeds and the suites – I could not convince colleagues, and unfortunately the commission did not support the creation of these regions. However, if we look at the municipality as a ‘centre’ of such a template, then everything around this centre will now be formed. There's a business, there's no business – it's not that important where this business is located, where it's located, where it's in the center, where it's larger or where it's smaller. It is essential whether we want to have this business, businesses in one, two, third, fourth-populated place. I often compare our country with our neighbours. If you're going in Estonia... Southern Estonia, like Latgale, will include the lagging region in Estonia. But while driving through all Estonian parishes, settlements – there is such or another production facility. There's a factory there. We don't have any production facilities. I don't remember which party... Prior to the elections, KPV LV called for production in at least every village, not to mention a larger settlement. Then, here's the objective of this reform, but in order to set up such a production facility, you need to know what the means will come from. It's nothing at the moment. I think that this proposal, too, should be supported. Making these large regions is another problem that... Well, I don't know how to solve it. Now imagine several existing towns – either Subate, Ilūkste, Zilupe, Kārsava or Viļaka – they will no longer be local centres. They will not have their own municipalities, but the municipalities already have many different responsibilities. Cities – or larger or smaller – such as heating, communal... Well, imagine: Ludza – 40 kilometers to Zilupe. Well, who will serve this farm to the public? Where will the Zilupe resident find help 40 miles [40 km] away? Well, in my view, this is an unsolved problem, and I think that those little towns are once again left behind. At the same time, we are building new cities just because there will be a district centre. Now this reform has not been fully considered, but I support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U45	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U46	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! Dear Members, First of all, it is a real joy for us to have an excellent e-Europe. When moving to the specific proposal, as a genetically 50 per cent average farmer, 50 per cent of the Latgalian could not talk about this either. Specifically, when talking about the highway that leads from Berzkrag to Vecpiebalga – it is actually already perfectly repaired, I'm driving last Saturday. The problem is further - in the section from Old Priege to Madon. There's repair going on right now, and that's what progress is going on. It is also clear that, as has already been mentioned here, there is a large farm in the Old Town. In fact, it is one of the largest water areas in Europe. I personally know the owner of the farm. He grows trout, thicks, various other fish. I met him last summer. I have to say, he's talking to all of us... with both hands and all works supporting the fact that the Vecpiebalga region is... Well, actually go to the largest region, it goes to the county of Cesis. He himself has been a Member of the Vecpiebalga District and admits that it... First of all, what we all have to do with this... this district reform (not heard.) ... In reality, the intellectual potential and its competition, which we cannot sometimes provide on the ground in small areas, will increase. Even the former members of the district and, in particular, this large businessman from the Vecpiebalga, have confirmed to me several times in my words this support for the addition of the Vecpiebalga to Cesis. Of course, I do not support this particular proposal either. So I think that Vecpiebalga, in his cultural historical assessment, that there were so many writers from there who would not lose anything, but we... like all the residents of the municipality and we as well as... as each of us, either from Riga or from where we come, we will all get more regions in general. Thank you (I'm probably going to talk again, but if... if I do not say) – thanks to Mr Ples for the work he did in running the commission. Thank you Minister, Mr Puce, who also has a lot, I know, listen... This, in fact, is all the debate in the Saeima, which is currently under way, Mr Pouce is listening. And thank him for this huge work, creating Latvia to travel the value of Latvia intellectually and in fact. Thank you very much. Yes, I do not therefore support this particular proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U47	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U48	Dear Members of the Saeima! In the context of the reform, I can say that this result of the reform in Vidzeme Highland does not like and does not satisfy myself, because when I look at demographics and study various socio-economic factors, it can be seen that Vidzeme Highland faces the same problems as the border area for a long time. As a result of the reform, all these municipalities, parishes, settlements, which are in Vidzeme Highland, will become isolated in the newly created municipalities. Of course, this does not mean that there will be no development opportunities there. Of course, they can exist if targeted investments are made in this area. But, of course, it will be more difficult to do this than if there were their own municipality with their own development centre. It seemed to me that this would be a great idea if a joint municipality had been formed in Vidzeme Highland – a new municipality formed by Vecpiebalga, Jaunpiebalga, Ērgļi and several other parishes – with Vecpiebalga as a possible centre, where in a later perspective could also build this development of Vidzeme Highland. However... However, this did not happen. Now I hope that at least in the newly created Cesis district, in the newly created region of Madona and elsewhere, at least these major settlements will acquire the status of a local development centre. If municipalities could have been much more active, it might have been a little different. Perhaps in a few years' time, we will come to this, but I really believe that targeted state aid is needed to ensure that we are developing in this part of the Middle East. At the moment, we have the result that we have a municipality as a result of the decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U49	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U50	Last year, as a Member, I went on a regional visit to Old Town, where I met with both the local government and the population, hearing their views on both the reform and other current problems. That is why, in addition to previous speakers on the road, for example on Cesis, which has been widely discussed what will happen there. In fact, the road, yes, is really in good order, but one part of it was built far away in 2006, and in fact, the road has already lived its time because it has served. To extend the service life of the road so that it does not break, this year the tops of this road are being taken... The reconstruction of the duvet at 10... about 10 km, mentioned by my colleague Krišjānis. So you can't say that nothing is done – it's done! – or that everything is perfect – it is not. In particular, the municipality of Vecpiebalga also pointed out their wishes, where they consider that they would contribute to the development of the municipality, which should be done. In part, it is also being done, for example, by improving the connection to the Eagles, which was one of their wishes, where the gravel pavement is being improved. There was also a desire to connect some villages in the region, to improve connections. As far as possible, this is, of course, being done and will be done. However, in all other ways, I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U51	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U52	Hello, honourable Members! You see, nature doesn't love emptiness. That is (not heard.) ... Mr. Valains is just as obedient, Mr. Gobzem is not...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U53	Mr. Kučinski! Talk to me, please, in the microphone! We hear you very weakly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U54	No, I express my joy in this unparalleled intelligence. — Not to be heard. ... on the view of all Vidzemes and other Latvias, so that everything I would like to add (not to be heard.) ... We vote in favour! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U55	Name to Member Aivars Gaidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U56	I would like to call for the two times of the debate to be brought together. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U57	You hear very well. Press again "Apply for a debate", which will happen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U58	Well, maybe I'll have enough five minutes. I'll tell you... I have graduated from Riga's trading technique, and in my course I learned this (A sound break.) ... Kristaps Cityman... Which (A sound breakdown) ... Riga Trade Technology. He's from the Old Pleasure. Once he invited us to his birthday, and then we were driving a bus. ( A sound defect.) ... that the roads were quite bad. It was a long way back in 2002. I and my classmate, too... It was Robert Treimanis. The old man was a beautiful place, there his house was... It's surrounded by a forest, there's also a lake. We rested there, well, it was a good time, it was a good time. And also with one... Or maybe I'll say hello to Kristaps Cityman here... We all finished it, graduated from Riga's trading technique. Good school, yeah. We had a director, Azacs, too. Well, it went hard, but, well, I've been. I'll be right now... I went on to join Turiba University...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U59	Colleagues! Well, I really... I ask you to talk about the specific proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U60	And the proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U61	Your biographies are stopped, of course, it is interesting, cultural and historical tours are also interesting...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U62	... Proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U63	... learn about the construction of roads. But, please, for the proposal! Proposal 178:
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U64	On the proposal, let us vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U65	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U66	Thank you, Mrs Mourniece and colleagues. I also think it is important to talk about the specific proposal because, listening to all of this, I really understood where and what is not happening in Vecpiebalga district, but I would like to talk about this proposal and that the region should be preserved, because we, through this reform through many historical regions, historical names, do not actually take these historical, cultural and cultural traditions into account by the Latvian people. Of course, those who argue against argue that everything is right will also be able to maintain... in the same way as to maintain these cultural and historical traditions, but I would like to emphasise that we are not occupied at the moment, we are not the Soviet times. We determine in our own country how we will live, but we follow the same principles as those of the Soviet nomenclature, who simply... They were not interested in our cultural and historical traditions; they made something new, regardless of historical regions. It may be that from an administrative point of view, it was also logical, because it looked at how many kilometres from the center is, and everything is fine, wrapped in a circular circle, and the municipality is ready, then the district is ready. But this time we decide our own future. Therefore, I call on you to maintain such regions as Vecpiebalga municipality and to create others, but – looking at Latvian cultural and historical lands to make them... so that these names can be preserved in the future, so that they are not just an inhabited place, but a region and that we, proudly, can be patriots in our own little region, but one that has been in Latvia as an inhabited place and where traditions have been cared for for hundreds of years. Therefore, I call for support for this proposal on the Old Pleasure District, because it is really very, very important. From the Vecpiebalga, the Jaunpiebalga side, there have been very many nobles, writers, poets and various movements of the Latvian people from these Vidzeme regions, which in fact was the basis for the modern Latvian identity as it is now. Therefore – I emphasize again! – I call for the maintenance of the Old Pleasure District and also for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U67	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U68	I should like to thank Mr. Geodans for such a discourse about his historical synergy with the district of Vecpiebalga, but I... Well, of course, I'm happy to hear him, but I'd rather have heard Mr. Geidan speak, as a patriot of Jelgava, on the proposals that had been put to the vote before... In fact, maintaining the silicon for the old crayons and crayons in Jelgava and Jelgava Municipality is a bad thing... especially for the local population. I'm so sorry Mr. Geidan didn't talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U69	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U70	Thank you. Hello! I just want to draw the attention of the New Conservative Party... and Mr Butāns in particular and Mr Feldman in particular, because, given that this group and its representatives have such misdemeanours as to advise, to provide legal advice to representatives of Russian criminal groups who have been expelled from Latvia, to follow very closely and then to account for the use of road repair funds for both Parliament and the public. I do not want criminal groups to wash off and then criminals steal financial funds, which in the future will have to be held accountable and the debt owed to all Latvian citizens. Including all those living in all these regions and their children and grandchildren will be committed to this beautiful or partially stolen money...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U71	Thank you. Colleagues, please return to the proposal. Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U72	Dear... Yes, my dear colleagues, I would ask - as I previously called - to support this proposal in 178, and not to cry and cry for a difficult life, but in the next municipal elections to start, prove your intelligence and beat one of your opponents with intelligence, not to think with... an empty word. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U73	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U74	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to stress what I also mentioned yesterday that, in line with the decision of the Saeima, we want to build municipalities that are sustainable and have sufficient economic capacity and which can provide services to citizens of comparable quality. That is what we decided on last year. This committee had, of course, the central element that we discussed, but at the same time I would like to point out that, as Mr Krauze mentioned, no community will in future be denied any territory the maintenance of its cultural and historical traditions. Taking these aspects into account that they are really important, the Commission took a number of decisions on how to strengthen and develop cultural and historical spaces in the future, both in historical Latvian countries and in a narrower range of communities, such as strengthening the Suiti community, development... Livs and others that would be important. In this context, the Vecpiebalga region will certainly be able to do this, and by the end of the year we will expect the Cabinet of Ministers to have an accurate plan of how to do so. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 178. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 16, against – 52, abstained – 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U76	179. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal. It provides for the exclusion of a series of parishes from Daugavpils municipality, as supported by the Commission, in order to create other configurations of municipalities, which are in future proposals. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 179. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 10, against – 54, abstained – 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U78	180. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It provides for the maintenance of Daugavpils municipality within its existing boundaries. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U79	Please call me! We will vote for 180. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 55, for - 19 The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U80	181. – a proposal from the committee responsible. It was established after consultation and receipt of opinions from Daugavpils and Ilūkste municipalities, which expressed their wish that Daugavpils region could be renamed Upper Daugiaus region. Since the two municipalities had agreed on such a vision, the Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U81	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 181. – the proposal of the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No. 82, no. 1, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U82	182. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Provision shall be made for the maintenance of the Ilūkste region within its existing limits. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U83	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U84	It seems to me that this is also a good example of how we do not take into account the historical territorial division of Latvia and the fact that these historical regions are also... that Ilūkste belongs to Selija, while Daugavpils region is in Latgale. This is about the old historical Latvian countries, which are mentioned at the beginning of the Satversme. It seems to me that this is a classic example of how the drivers of reform do better stop the territorial division of Soviet times rather than want to restore the historical and also logical that can be created in the future on the basis of the cultural and territorial values of our people. Here I would like to remind you that at one time... So in the 30s... 20-30. Even Ilūkste County and Ilūkste, like the center, existed in the last few years. In fact, this county was abolished in 1949, so properly during the Soviet era when our compatriots were exported to Siberia, when they transformed everything into Latvia. Well, and of course we do not want now, when the Saeima takes this decision, to return to what it was before. We prefer to base on what was created during the Soviet period, what was created by the occupation power, and in fact it is not important, as this new county is called – whether it is Daugavpils region, whether it is Lejasdaugava, Augšdaugava or whatever – but it is important that we return in principle to the Daugavpils district of the Soviet Socialist Republic of Latvia. Therefore, I would suggest, however, that I also listen to the locals of Ilūkste, including those who fight and support the identity of Selija and the testicles, and form a separate district of Ilūkste. The municipality of Ilūkste is completely self-sufficient. Look at the figures – in fact Ilūkste region can continue to develop and can be the center of development. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U85	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U86	I do not agree with Armands Krauzem, because our consciousness is that the cultural regions remain, whether they are Selija, or Latgale or Vidzeme. Its historical boundaries do not disappear either. The fact that these territories are included in an administrative unit does not mean that the cultural-historical region is disappearing, it remains. If we look at what this potential region of Ilūkste could be like, then we see the town of Ilūkste with a population of just over two thousand. In my opinion, it is not a serious application as a strong economic centre in the region, capable of providing both services and jobs for the local population, and so on. At the same time, if we look at how far the so-called possible Ilūkste centre in Ilūkste is from Daugavpils, it is about 23 to 28 kilometres, which would take 25 to 30 minutes by car. Well, I think it's here, right next to you. Therefore, it is clear that the whole region of the region is the centre of Daugavpils and its territory, the region is, of course, around Daugavpils, and the economic tow will be in Daugavpils. But in this case Daugavpils is a state-owned city, so the question remains... more discuss where the total will be... Daugavpils or, more precisely, Lejasdaugava, Upper... That's the center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U87	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U88	Dear President, Honourable Members! This one too... In this case, the question remains why. The reason is, of course, that Daugavpils will be able to work, but now it is already... Go those who want, and those who do not want, they work on the spot. But here's the "best" (footsteps)... “the best” explained Andris Skride that, here, the merger is necessary because there is a great intellectual potential by adding these cities. Well, the fact that this is in Daugavpils, we have no doubt, but Mr Skride has probably heard nothing about the local authorities or about the cultural communities in these regions, just like Selia had a very active academic work that determined this intellectual potential. Or so in the Old Prize there was a society of cultural landscapes and buildings are purchased mainly by lecturers from Riga and other universities, who also create this intellectual potential. Well, Mr Skride has never heard of it, of course. There's another thing here. I think that if it was simply such a cultural and historical error in the case of the Vecpiebalga, it is a very serious political error in the case of Selia. Why not? I'll tell you why. Currently there are 67... somewhere under 70 percent of Latvians in the same district of Ilūkste. So in this region, as it will be called – Lejasdaugava or Daugavpils – there already are 34 percent without Daugavpils, with Daugavpils – 22 percent of Latvians. So the mentalities are completely mixed. I am not saying what is better or what is worse, but it is the difference, there are completely different holiday traditions, completely different lifestyles, and from an economic point of view it will certainly not bring anything. Well, Daugavpils won't build a factory, let's say, in Ilūkste, if they want it, and, by the way, there are two factories going to be built by entrepreneurs. One time it was about metalworking, but I strongly doubt whether they would like to do so after joining Daugavpils, because cooperation has not been good enough and negotiations with Daugavpils management... Well, let's say, in Ilūksti, they've found much louder ears. So that's a complete mess about some kind of economic breakthrough there. Nothing will change there either, but two political mistakes will be made – both culturally and politically. Of course, it's not so important here, whether it's Ilūkste or Selijas novads, or at Viesīte... The very essence here is that Selija as a cultural and historical region is being eliminated. We can, of course, say that it will not change anything, but the majority in this region... the majority of this district... There will be completely different mentalities for people, and it will cost the local people very much. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U89	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U90	Dear colleagues, Well, I want to say a word today to Alexander Kirštein. Well, so many rational arguments... Really. It's about Ilūksti. There was this discussion in the Commission very serious. For example, I heard that there was even a mutual agreement between the current Daugavpils district, management and the current Ilūkste municipality that they agreed that there would be a separate region of Ilūkste. The Commission did not take into account. We are smarter here in Riga, we do not listen to the local ones, we completely ignore the wishes. But there is one very important thing. Any reform, in particular, concerning administrative areas, must be an incentive if we are to look forward to future developments. This incentive often results from the local population, from the local community. In the case of the illusion, yes, it came about that they want either to be in the region or to be in the joint region of Selia. We ignored. If we had taken this into account, either by creating the municipality of Selija, or by setting up the municipality of Ilūkste separately, then... this incentive would turn into a desire to work, to work with more energy. We know better in Riga. How long will we carry out this reform without counting on the local population? It's a total mistake! What are we doing to reform this? Are you making for yourself? Or do we do for all of Latvia, for all of Latvia's citizens, without listening to the needs and interests of these people. Selya asked, they agreed. They agreed. The Sēlia municipalities agreed at the joint meeting that they were ready to form Sēlia. Then there was the problem – the centre. I offer an option, if Jēkabpils will be, then Jēkabpils could be perceived as a centre, just like Daugavpils municipality with Daugavpils, Rezekne with Rezekne municipality, but unfortunately the city of Jēkabpils was not created separately as a state city, and my proposal to offer this option to Selija fell. It's about Ilūksti. So far, I believe the city of Ilūkste has tried to develop successfully – within its limits. All that has been done there is done. There are many things in order. That's... They do not depart from space, nor do they do it, they did it with their own leadership – bad, good, politically acceptable – but they have done it. However, I believe that both cultural and historical areas, if citizens want to, should be preserved, and cities larger or smaller, should be preserved as municipalities. People need to listen more to people than pressure them from above without being aware, without being justified, without being able to explain what will be better. Just like in church: believe it will be better! What's better? So far we do not know about this draft reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U91	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U92	Hello, colleagues! Working within the Administrative Commission on Territorial Reform, both at first and second reading, and also in the debate on the possible establishment of the municipality of Selia, I was the one who supported this idea. Because, first of all, several municipalities agreed that they could unite in Selia County. They had a clear vision of the further economic development of their municipality, cooperation of municipalities in all sectors. The only stinging stone was to choose which city to choose as a centre of development. The municipalities in Selia municipality had their own vision, which unfortunately did not coincide with the idea of what development centres in Latvia should be. Of course, one could praise Mr Kirštein, but at the moment it will not save anything, because in the Commission, Mr Dombrava, who represents the interests of the National Union, was against this position. And you'll see the National Association vote on it right away. That's the first. And the second. I'd like to... I am also a teacher and I would like to point out that, however, when it comes to figures, there is a need to be accurate. Mr. Butane mentioned that two and a half thousand people live in Ilūkste. This is misleading information, six and a half thousand people live in Ilūkste district. Statistics for 2019 at least indicated this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U93	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U94	Hello, dear colleagues! If we're talking about Ilūkste County, then maybe I'll come back a little bit in history. Ilūkste has been established even before the previous reform, before 2009. Ilūkste has always kept its region very high, because management has taken care of Ilūkste. We also see this in terms of purity and also in terms of development. While there were districts, district councils... Ilūkste region has never been especially involved in Daugavpils region, because very many people live in Daugavpils district or Daugavpils district, but in Ilūkste district mostly live, now, fungi. It is a pity that the seeds have failed to create their own region, because we nevertheless look from this point of view, that the seeds are always different from the Latgalians and from all the others. Therefore, my call is to support Ilūkste Municipality as a separate municipality, because today Ilūkste is not part of Daugavpils Municipality or Jēkabpils Municipality. I call on the district to support and leave it in the way it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U95	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U96	There is a positive and negative message mentioned by Mrs Regina Ločmele-Lunova. The positive is that she listens to me and listens to what I say about Ilūkste Municipality. It's negative that she doesn't listen to the end, and she doesn't hear everything I'm saying. And specifically, I said that in Ilūkste municipality... There are just over two thousand inhabitants in the town of Ilūkste, not the whole region. So please take good. Thank you for listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U97	Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U98	Thank you to all my colleagues who also support this idea of the independence of Ilūkste district, and I would really like to thank you for what Alexander Kirštein and Janina Jalinska have said about history. I would like to emphasise that now, however, let us think before we vote, because its history is very long ago for Ilūkste municipality. If we are still looking at the context of Ilūkste County, I would like to remind you that Ilūkste County was established in 1819, so very long ago, even in the times of the czar. And the seeds that lived in this district of Ilūkste – they have really preserved their identity, despite different times, on different powers. Well, I... I would very much like us, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, to now decide on the administrative territorial breakdown, but to take into account the interests of these people, because I feel that the reform must be based on the interests of the people and not on the self-consumption of mathematical figures by some Members, justifying that there are too few people there, too many... too little economic activity... and he can't... Therefore, I call on you to support this historical region that has existed very long ago, and also to give the seeds the opportunity to keep their identity, not only by uniting in associations and heart with the seeds, but also to have their own region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U99	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U100	Thank you. Only a small note. It may already be that here the idea was, by adding greedy seeds to Daugavpils municipality – it will help in the fight against corruption. We haven't heard in Ilūkste, for example... that they would buy trams from Russia or old buses from Riga or their party members at a price four times higher – as is the case in Daugavpils. Of course, I understand that in any case, we will not vote here. Time will show how this situation will turn out, and the only thing I hope the district of Ilūkste will not be... that there on 9 May will not be celebrated, but will be celebrated on 8 May – the end of the Second World War... When so they will be added to this Daugavpils region. I have such a weak hope here... And help fight corruption. Thank you. But I'm calling...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U101	I closed the debate. So, on behalf of the commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U102	The Commission did not support proposal 182.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U103	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 182. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! ( Interface: “The Commission was not supported... ) On – 12, against – 52, refraining – 21 The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U104	183. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Also provides for the maintenance of Ilūkste municipality in an existing area with an administrative centre in Ilūkste. This was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U105	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 183. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 10, against – 49, abstained – 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U106	184. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to create Ilūkste region in a different configuration, consisting of the existing Akniekste and Ilūkste regions. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U107	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 184. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 11, against – 49, abstained – 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U108	185. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It shall provide for the maintenance of the district of Dobele within its existing limits. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U109	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 185. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! To - 10, to - 54, to - 20. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Members are currently registered. Registration successfully completed. So the break is till 3 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U110	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. Member of the Commission responsible, Arturs Toms Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U111	Colleagues! We will continue to see the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations at Third Reading after Table No. 2521A. We're at 186. - a proposal from Member Viktoras Valaiņš. This provides for the maintenance of the Auce area within its existing boundaries. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 186. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 3, against – 43, abstained – 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U113	187. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is envisaged to maintain the Auce area within its existing limits by making Auce an administrative centre. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U114	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 187. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 5, against – 45, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U115	188. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It shall provide for the maintenance of the county of Tērvete within its existing limits. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U116	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U117	We are in the process of reform... view... to Zemgale municipalities. Currently under consideration the municipality of Tērvete. In the past, I heard from my colleagues, especially colleagues from the Union of Greens/Farmers, how they defended various regions, including the leaving of the municipality of Vecpiebalga, then, in this case, for example, the maintenance of the municipality of Tērvete in the existing area, this debate does not see anything. Then I have a question – what is the reason for this? Is that... it's such a duality that in one case it's right and the other... In the other case, it is different, because the Dobele side lives this... Member of this party. So, yes, it's not clear. Otherwise, of course, I am in favour of a larger area in Dobele and call for the proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U118	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U119	The Commission did not support the 188th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 188. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 1, against – 49, abstained – 24. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U121	189. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It also provides for the maintenance of Tērvete municipality within its existing limits by stating that the administrative centre is Tērvete. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U122	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 189. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 48, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U123	190. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to exclude the city of Jelgava from Jelgava. It is related to the establishment of Jelgava state-owned city as a separate municipality. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U124	Please call me! We will vote for 190. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 54, against – 17, abstained – 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U125	191. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It shall be provided that the municipality of Jelgava is maintained within its existing limits, provided that its administrative centre is Jelgava. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 191. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 7, against – 50, refrained – 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U127	192. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Provision shall be made for the maintenance of the Ozolnieki municipality within its existing limits. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U128	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 192. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 5, against – 47, abstained – 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U129	193. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Provision shall be made for the maintenance of the Ozolnieki municipality within its existing limits, subject to the administrative centre being Ozolnieki. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U130	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 193. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 9, against – 49, abstained – 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U131	194. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Waits for the version supported by the Commission... Remove a number of parishes from Jēkabpils municipality, thus offering to create other districts in a different configuration. As one of those that we voted for – Ilūkste Municipality – to work together with Aknieste Municipality. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U132	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 194. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 9, against – 48, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U133	The 195th proposal submitted by Member Romāns Nadiņš envisages that Vīpe parish should be excluded from the city of Jēkabpils. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U134	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U135	Yes, honourable colleagues! I would like to speak on behalf of the citizens of Vīpe parish, because the initiative of the citizens of Vīpe parish was one that was supported by the Līvānu Municipality Council. This initiative was about adding the Municipality of Vīpe to the Livani, but now I have to say that, unfortunately, the whole of the emergency... The way in which this reform was being looked at did not also allow citizens and district members to take part in this debate in the Commission, because, in fact, the other Members who took part in the Commission are also witnesses of the fact that it was unfortunately not that we were looking at all the proposals in a row, that these proposals were grouped together in different areas and objectives and thoughts. However, at the time when this proposal was launched, there was also no possibility to join this Zoom platform for the representatives of the county concerned. So I have to say that this one, too... Well, it wasn't a really qualitative proposal. And what I would also like to add to my proposal is that, in fact, the Livani Municipality Council has also sent a letter to VARA, informing us that such a citizens' initiative exists and that such an initiative has been supported. The argument that Krustpils novads does not support Vīpe parish joining Līvāni municipality is, in my opinion,... is not significant, especially in view of the fact that there is now also a redistribution in the district of Krustpil. And people are not native people. If it is their initiative, if they use the infrastructure in the Livani district and if they have expressed such a wish (in fact, most of the voting citizens have signed this letter), then I feel that we do not have the right here in the Saeima to disobey their wish. Not we're gonna have to live in Vīpe parish, they're gonna have to live there, and they know... They know best where they want their administrative center. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U136	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U137	Honourable Members! This issue is also one of the problems that have arisen over time. In particular, Zemgale has been on the left side of the Daugava for life. But now, when they formed the municipality of Jēkabpils and joined the city of Krustpils and existing parishes, including Kukas, Atashiens, Vīpi and so on, it turned out that Zemgale is on the right. In fact, Latgale took away a large part of the territory only because there were no regions – Latgale, Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme – with borders. And again this mistake is made. But about this particular case, remembering the discussion in the commission. In my view, if the citizens expressed their wish (there were both jobs in Livani and communications, various types of services that they receive in Livani, the closer Livani than Jēkabpils), in my view, it would be welcome, because above all Livani municipality... it is one of the smallest at the moment. And if even this small municipality of Vīpe is here with the population, then the territory of Līvāni region will also increase there, and the population will also increase. In connection with the district of Jēkabpils, to which now this present district of Krustpils will be near, then this municipality of Jēkabpils does not express anything, in my view, this small parish. I think that if Members vote in favour of adding Vīpe parish, it will be more correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U138	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U139	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add a little bit about looking at the proposal, which Mrs Stepanenko mentioned. I would like to point out that we provided an opportunity for all those who wanted to participate in this meeting of the committee – both representatives of non-governmental organisations and, of course, municipalities and residents. It has to be said that there were situations in the sittings of the relevant commission, when the number of participants reached approximately 100 participants, which could not be physically ensured during the sitting in the Saeima in any room of the committee, therefore, the wider hearing of the citizens and municipalities was ensured in this respect, of course, when the municipalities applied for specific questions as well, the name was given. In addition, the meetings of this committee were broadcast live by the Saeima, thus broadening the range of potential stakeholders interested in specific issues. And, of course, in order to identify and determine which persons are present at commission meetings, then, in certain cases, if the user's name was just the name of the telephone model, then, of course, if the consultants responsible were not able to identify a particular person, in such a situation, the question which is the person concerned was asked, or in other situations, if no reply was given, accordingly, the possibility of direct participation was not allowed. On the other hand, regarding how these proposals were examined, just like the panel held this principle at second reading, that the municipalities were heard in consultation with them by these regions – Kurzeme, Latgale, Vidzeme... Vidzeme, Kurzeme – then similar practices were also retained at third reading, and these proposals were structured by region in the table of proposals for this complex structuring process and were examined in this way. The specific proposal, in 195, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U140	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 195. - Member's Money proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 11, against – 46, abstained – 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U141	The 196th proposal tabled by Member Sprude is identical to the 195th proposal. And it was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U142	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U143	Yes, I understand that it is impossible for me to vote on this proposal a second time, but I would also like to explain a little further because of the verbatim report on how this... looking at these proposals. Unfortunately, it was that a table was therefore available, it was structured along the way, with the agreement of the relevant commission with the Members, what proposals would be seen at the beginning and what proposals – then. If this table were structured in a way that Members had agreed in the Commission before – look at different parts, it would also be easier to follow along, but unfortunately, it was all about spending all day listening to the specific work of the Commission, for example, people from one region – they had to listen to all this time... this debate, in order to be able to understand at what point they must get in and defend their proposal. I would therefore like to oppose Mr Ples: it was not really that it was clear to everyone here, including those from the edge, at which point they could join in, and that wasn't what you were saying at the moment. And, yes, to Vīpe parish, well, not all people had a real chance to follow and join at a particular point, because specifically on this point, I can say at first that they were going to look at it the next day, and then suddenly we get a message that the proposal would start immediately, and people who were also busy in their work, while listening to this commission, they simply failed to connect. They simply failed to connect to this Zoom platform. And very well what you say is that you haven't even put some users into it that you couldn't identify. That, however, seems to me to be another infringement of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U144	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U145	The 196th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U146	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 196. – Member Scratch's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 52, abstained – 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U147	197 is the proposal of the commission responsible, which in the municipality of Jēkabpils... clarify the status of the settlement of the city of Jēkabpils, making it... The city of Jēkabpils includes the city of Jēkabpils. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U148	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 197. – the proposal of the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U149	The 198th proposal, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, seeks to identify a type of populated administrative area, such as a large city with a rural area. Jēkabpils... When discussing this type of breakdown, the Commission did not support either the city of Jēkabpils or other options offered by Viktoras Valaiņš. Consequently, this proposal was not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U150	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 198. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 7, against – 54, abstained – 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U151	The 199th proposal, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, aims to preserve the region of Jēkabpils within its existing limits. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U152	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 199. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 3, against – 55, abstained – 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U153	And the 200th proposal made by Member Viktors Valainis also provides for the... its preservation within the existing boundaries, by stating that the administrative centre is Jēkabpils. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U154	Please call me! Let's vote for 200. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 4, against – 53, abstained – 21. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U155	201. Proposal by Member Viktors Valainis provides for the establishment of Jēkabpils municipality with an administrative centre in Jēkabpils. And its significant difference here is that Jēkabpils novads is created without the city of Jēkabpils. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U156	Please call me! We will vote for 201. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 54, abstained – 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U157	The 202st proposal, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, provides for the maintenance of Aknīste district within its existing limits. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U158	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 202. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 1, against – 55, abstained – 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U159	203 The proposal put forward by Member Viktors Valainis also provides for the retention of the district of Aknieste within its existing limits, with the administrative centre being Aknieste. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U160	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 203. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 9, against – 57, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U161	The 204th proposal, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, provides for the preservation of the district of Krustpils within its existing limits. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U162	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U163	So it's happened that I know a little more about this region. And it may seem to someone that this region is not associating with anything and that it is just another region, where there is no discussion, but... But, actually, having spent the whole childhood with this existing... in the territory of the said municipality, I can say that this region is like a gateway to Latgale. It is no small part of Latgale, when driving in the direction from Riga through the city of Jēkabpils. And even though these are the gates... as a gate to Latgale, in fact there is no larger centre or economic towing force in this area that could ensure the independence of the district. In fact, it is Jēkabpils, a city that ensures all economic development in the region and where people want to go – both to education and to jobs. And so, whatever you want, maybe... This region would probably be separate from itself; in fact, there is no justification for it. I therefore call, however, for it to be added to Jēkabpils and for it to be put to the vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U164	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U165	In the Commission, the 204 proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U166	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 204. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 2, against – 59, abstained – 26. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U167	The 205th proposal, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, also provides for the preservation of the district of Krustpils within its existing limits, with the administrative centre being Krustpils. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U168	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 205. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 59, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U169	The 206th proposal, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, provides for the maintenance of the island district within its existing limits. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U170	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U171	There is a similar case here, as we have already debated other regions in the past. In fact, the Sala municipality and the Island itself, let's say, a settlement that is known... Maybe we know with a bakery, there's a loaf of bread, but in fact, when I come to this village, I've been watching well what then... the movement of people. And in the morning the stop is full. Buses... people with buses travel to Jēkabpils, just as after work they return from Jēkabpils in the evening, and that distance from Sala to Jēkabpils is as small as in Riga from one... It is not appropriate, in my view, to move to the other area, so that two different administrative units can be separated. And this proposal is therefore not to be supported. And the municipality should be added to the city of Jēkabpils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U172	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U173	The 206 proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U174	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 206. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 1, against – 60, abstained – 26. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U175	207 The proposal put forward by Member Viktors Valainis also provides for the maintenance of the island district by stating that the administrative centre would be located in the island. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U176	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 207. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 9, against – 60, abstained – 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U177	208 The proposal submitted by Mr Valainis provides for the maintenance of the municipality of Viesīte within its existing limits. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U178	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 208. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no – 58, abstain – 26. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U179	The 209st proposal, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, provides for the maintenance of Viesīte district within its existing limits by stating that the administrative centre is Lone. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U180	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 209. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 1, against – 60, abstained – 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U181	210. The proposal made by Member Viktors Valainis provides for the establishment of the Viesīte district in a different configuration, stating that its administrative centre is Viesīte. In the Commission, after discussions, in the opinion of the Commission, a lot... much, so to say, it is more sustainable and more justified to include these administrative territories in the largest region of Jēkabpils, thus ensuring development. And this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U182	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U183	I believe that many of us have never been to the Viesite, and they too... for those who have not been, it is also difficult to imagine what this settlement is then. Well, I've had the opportunity to stay there, and otherwise, of course, the beautiful place with grand Soviet buildings built in the center of the settlement, but otherwise it seems like, to say, the forgotten place of God, where economic activity is quite rude, the services available are quite limited and the population is falling rather quickly. Therefore, I have to join the Commission's view and say that the administrative unit – the counties – should still be connected to the city of Jēkabpils, where these administrative resources, services and jobs are more and more available than in Viesite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U184	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U185	Yeah, thank you. I still want to remind Mr Butane that his geographical knowledge may also be incomplete and that people have been in Viesite. And you don't have to say that there's been or not. I look forward to the reply on the Norwegian waffles in Brussels. However, the proposal was very serious and I call, however, for the substance and the substance of the comments to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U186	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U187	When I discuss these issues, which involve the creation of small regions or, nevertheless, adding to another region, I would like to say that, in fact, it is already a national problem, that the countryside... including the novads of Viesītes has emptyed... and this development is not desirable... not at the desired level. What are we doing now? As an arrow in the sand, we get a head, we pretend that everything will be fine if we say that there will be no more such Viesīte region. It will be added to Jēkabpils, and then everything will suddenly happen in the Guest. No, no! I would like to remind you once again that everything is about wanting to develop or not to develop an area. And funds, money is actually at the heart of everything, plus people's desire to do so. Money, money itself, does not solve anything yet, is still needed by citizens' desire to do so. And the policy so far in the country that this principle was offered to public administration – we manage the state as a company (where it's good, where it's okay, where it's okay, where we invest where it's not good, where we eliminate it, combine it, connect it)... That is not right. If it operates in business, such a principle cannot, by its very nature, operate in public administration... public administration, territorial administration. One of the main functions of the country is to equalize all... the smooth development of the area. If this is not the case, the State does not perform its functions properly, sufficiently. What has the country done in these 30 years to make it easier for those people to live in rural areas where their needs are not financially supported? Are taxes reduced? None. Grants specifically... specific targeted grants, as in Estonia, for example, where there were nine areas lagging behind? Not in Latvia. Well, what else? There is no wage supplement for doctors, teachers, so that they stay there, in these rural areas, either. That principle is wrong. This has actually been a liberal approach to these issues. Everything's great. For example, an educational model. I must have told you once. Cooperation partners in Poland. They have that coefficient – followed by... money for the student – is completely opposite than it is in Latvia. Where's away from the big city... The coefficient in the city is one and then begins – distance, density. Just increases this factor. In Poland, in rural areas, teachers receive much more with coefficients than in urban areas. On the contrary, the more students, the more they receive the school, of course, Riga, cities. Well, that's the policy that drives the villagers away from rural territory. How long are we going to do this? This reform does not solve, this reform reinforces this outpost effect even further. Well, we don't think state, people drive the bus. Why are they driving? The question is, why? How can they avoid driving, so that the opposite is true? There is something to teach from other countries, but we do not take that into account. For us, that just money... overturn... Riga... Don't know where anymore. For the house of pleasure, for the Great Guild, for two parks. It's about to be a supermuseum for someone. It's all the ERDF, it's all... is a regional benefit. Why... Why Riga? Why steal from regions money? Why? Well, a country that robs its people will not exist for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U188	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U189	All due respect for colleagues who are talking about the proposal and their views can be liked may be disliked, but it is important that there is a debate in Parliament on the proposal in question. On the other hand, for those who have not really woke up and do not understand what is happening here, I remind you that we are talking about the Administrative territory and the population... law. And in this case about Guests...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U190	Mr Butane, I call on you to talk about the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U191	... about the Municipality of Viesīte... And then those who say... they've got... Waffles, their waffles can be kept with you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U192	Mr. Butane, please, for the proposal! The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U193	Hello, colleagues! I think these proposals by Mr. Valaiņa, which is... Either, as such, they all apply to about one region in Latvia. And many of them are very, very similar, even duplicate each other, also well reflect the problem that we have. Very small regions, which, as colleagues have said earlier, are not able to sustain themselves, and indeed we are forced to bring them together in larger regions so that this tow, the economic tow, is bigger and that people do not have to leave the countryside. Colleagues, in the context of this particular reform, we all understand that the departure of people from the countryside is one of the issues of national security, including ours, but our responsibility as Saeima is actually to look in the mirror and answer ourselves – what are we doing to prevent it? Mr Kazinovsky called a very harsh moment ago, with harsh words, the problems that people in the countryside have to face every day. And so that, in future, such a proposal, where we need to add to the larger districts of this small settlement, is less, we ourselves, as a responsible parliament, must really lead parallel reforms. If it is income that causes people to leave small regions and, as in this case, to add Viesīte municipality to Jēkabpils municipality, which we will do right away, then, for example, we should definitely not be late for putting on the agenda and moving forward the issue of small debt forgiveness. In the countryside, this is a very big problem for people, and I think we would be very helpful in helping poor people, disadvantaged people, people who do not get more than the minimum wage, and in helping them to keep them in the places where they were born, which is their historic place of residence. People don't leave a good mind – that's what we all know, so it's very important, and I think this parliament... 13. The Saeima has shown itself to be a responsible parliament capable of moving forward with reforms. We therefore need to drive forward and do so in parallel with such bold reforms. Also education issues – these are acute issues that... which must not be delayed, and it will be one of the tools that will help us to keep people in these places and ensure that people are evenly populated. But this particular proposal, as I said, must now look at its situation in Latvia, must be rejected. And I call on the rest to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U194	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U195	Since, unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to withdraw from Mr Bhutan's speeches, I have to listen like other Members. I would like, first of all, to ask Mr Bondara to obey, I really can't hear anything... Secondly, I would like to apologise to the people of Viesīte for the words of Mr. Butans that Viesīte is the forgotten place of God. I think Mr. Butane should have been honest to the end and... submit a proposal for this bill – in our territorial division of Latvia, to foresee such an entity as the forgotten place of the God of Latvia. And list the settlements that could be regarded as such. I would then definitely table an amendment to this proposal and call "God's forgotten places" a "forgotten places of the country", thus joining Mr Kazinovsky's words that what is happening to our few villages that turn into remote areas is one problem: they are indeed the forgotten places of the country. Unfortunately, this Saeima, including the UKP, which takes great care of the Guest, voted against the national programme to prevent outlying effects, thus also voting against the possibility for cities such as the Guest to develop and become our future for Latvia. I would also remind you that those municipalities that wanted to unite and form Sēlija's integrated district had chosen the Guests as their future development centre for Sēlija. They were not allowed to do so by the ruling coalition, including the UKP, who now imagines the Viesītes. Please let us not be hypocritical, let us not overestimate this debate on concrete proposals for a debate on our political future, which lacks it 3 × 500, and where there are some Members in the debate allowing a Latvian city to be called a forgotten place of God. Once again, I'm sorry to the guests of Viesīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U196	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U197	Bad education is not yet a reason to teach others. On the proposal. Several proposals of Member Valaiņš are intended to encourage people to start friends with their heads and, before making any historical decision, to think, think, evaluate, not by referring to the slogans or some other concepts that are bigger – it is better, and therefore it was Mr Valaiņš' proposal that led to the reflections that Andris Zazinovskis demonstrated today. And it's the right place for these reflections, because really from the fact that Viesīte or any other place will be added to a larger territory of the municipality... Nothing will change from it. And it's not just people's desire or laziness, or otherwise, because if a country, apart from ATR, has no other instrument to promote development, it's a tragedy. That's why it's not about it: good or bad Member Valainis, good or bad he has acted by making appropriate proposals, he is simply correcting the brothers who have been allowed by the ATR commission under Mr. Ples. I therefore think that in this case the actions of individual Members should hardly be assessed, but the proposal itself should be evaluated. The proposal does not create any particular enthusiasm, as it is neither a solution nor a solution. So here, to be honest, there is no more than an attempt to simulate the reform. No more and no less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U198	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U199	Dear colleagues, Especially colleagues from the position, those who speak so often about almost every proposal from Mr. Valaiņš! I would like to thank you very much. Well, I'm sorry... I was not able to participate directly in this ATR commission, but I was very interested all this time in what is really rational... What are the reasons behind all its administrative territorial reform, why have you decided to re-design the Latvian map in this way, because in no VARAM reports I have any such grounds or rational, nothing, neither calculations nor anything, to find the inability. But now, especially thanks to Member Janis Butan, I have this rational... these coalition grounds become much clearer to what kind of... an understanding of the specific regions, regional development and so on, all based on this. That's why I... in particular, I would call on Mr Butan to speak on each proposal as often as possible. I think it's all very educational, not just... not only to colleagues in the Saeima, but also, I think that this particular region is also for the population. Why the coalition... the coalition is thinking about these regions, which it knows about them. And on what basis it decides to eliminate them as such, add to someone else and so on. Thank you, therefore, Mr Bhutan. Please...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U200	Please specifically for this proposal. The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U201	Yes, hello, colleagues! I also went through these same proposals and looked hard, and I really don't understand. If we talk about the Guest right now, what do the Guests want? Do they want the Viesīte district, do they want the Selia district, or do they want any other municipality?... What are those proposals now achieved here, if. In my opinion, this more likes shooting in all directions, just to keep someone there in their position and place of work, because I do not see any other explanation for this. Agree on one thing, come and talk, and not for the moment Guests have 210... 11... in all the proposals that the most important thing, somewhere the Guests want, even if they don't want it at all. I regularly visited the Guest. I have spent my childhood there, and I am still actively involved in various activities. Most of the guests work in Jēkabpils, also in Riga and so on. And, in my opinion, this is absolutely logical that they, however, should be the theoretical region of Viesīte, just like everything is happening to them in Jēkabpils, so we shouldn't mix this here. And I will, however, call for if we are already being reprimanded here by the motions for those speeches and nots, then we are consistently reprimanding all Members, not individual Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U202	I closed the debate. On the specific proposal... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U203	The proposal in question. 210 The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U204	Please call me! We will vote for 210. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 10, against – 57, abstained – 20. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U205	The 211st proposal submitted by Member Viktors Valainis provides for the creation of a municipality of Selija with an administrative centre in Jēkabpils. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U206	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U207	Yes, hello, colleagues! There are a few things that are relevant to this proposal. First of all, according to one of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, where the administrative territorial reform was assessed, when assessing the administrative territorial reform, the Constitutional Court came to an opinion... the conclusions on how to find out citizens' views, on which this question has been asked several times today. The opinion of those citizens, in the view of the Constitutional Court, expresses the opinion of the... Dom. And in this case, this opinion was expressed in the Commission's proposal – clearly! – seven domains unanimously. Seven domes unanimously! There was no consensus about where there was an administrative centre, that is to say, there was no agreement between the municipalities themselves and the Commission where it should be. Well, the commission shared the thoughts. Of course, in what way the Council has reached this point of view, there are different methods, but at the very beginning of this reform (it is important to point out this proposal) it was... various types of surveys were carried out... One of them was stopped by the Minister and... and had turned to the police about what happened in the council, which resulted in a dispute and, in some way, influenced the willingness of any other municipality to organise this type of poll. At the end it turned out (which was decided by the Constitutional Court) that this municipality was right. And it's a story about the Duck, and... But, of course, this undoubtedly affects, as far as I am aware, the desire of many municipalities to organise such surveys, and I think that if this were not the case, perhaps its surveys would be much more precise and better, and I think today we are still... Today... In the morning we will also talk about other surveys, about their credibility, such as the Varaklanes... and other issues that are likely to arise. But here it is important for me to note that in this proposal, that is to say, we are building... is offered to form the municipality of Selija. And, as the debate here before had criticised me, the same proposals had been put forward... No, these proposals are not the same, and the difference is very important, because you see that these proposals are mentioned in brackets... Also this proposal in brackets mentions the city of Jēkabpils, which means... So this is the administrative unit of Selya. And the brackets shall indicate the administrative centre of the administrative unit. In this case, the administrative centre is indicated in Jēkabpils. And in this case, it would also involve the creation of an association of the regions of Selija from seven counties, a united region of Selija. So in 2012, the Selia Municipality Association was already established... their cooperation in different areas. Until now, it has never been possible for local authorities in Selia to agree on cooperation between themselves in other areas, and here I have to say, it is a real pleasure that this was the case. And these municipalities agreed on their joint cooperation in areas such as... that it would be possible to cooperate together in the future in all areas that define the functions of municipalities... well, one of the main areas is education and social services, and others that were also reflected in their decisions. In my opinion, this proposal should be supported. This is an opportunity to use, create not only the historical land, as the President has determined, has encouraged, but to identify a real municipality – the municipality of Selija – where citizens themselves would decide their own development prospects. According to the profile prepared, both financially and in terms of population, the municipality would be a very large municipality, strong, one of the... This would be one of the big... one of the very large regions of Latvia, with a large budget, a large population and potentially different possibilities to develop and with an administrative centre in Jēkabpils. I would call for this proposal to be supported because it... Relatively... is the same as Rēzekne municipality and other regions, so that... or even bigger... so that... And this corresponds to such a historical spirit. And indeed, in the context of our reform at the moment, this is the final opportunity to create the municipality of Selija. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U208	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U209	Colleagues, I stress that I have neither a home nor an apartment, nor even a small flat, but I really thought that it was the right idea that Sela should be a separate municipality, there should be a development centre, and so at second reading I had put forward a proposal to set up a municipality of Sela with a centre in Viesite. At that point, I had not even talked to the municipalities about such a joint initiative, but the municipalities themselves met together and decided that they would support such a possibility that this joint municipality of Selija would be formed with the Guesty as a centre. It really was such a unprecedented precedent that so many municipalities are able to agree on a common vision of how to create this map of Latvia's territory on this side of Latvia. And I still believe that this is a good and correct idea that there should be a separate municipality in Selija. I regret that it was not possible to agree at second reading on the existence of such a separate municipality, although we were already very close to it in this debate, and also at third reading, unfortunately, we did not come to the vote on a separate municipality in Selija. If we had reached, then it is likely that we would get a really large municipality. Yes, without a large, expressed within the centre, but with much greater future development prospects, if it had a good and skilled host at management. I hope that, regardless of the Saeima's vote, Selija will be able to develop, but again I stress that I believe that it would have been right for this Latvian side to establish a separate municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U210	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U211	Colleagues, in the context of this proposal, I would both like to respond to the statements made by the debate and, more generally, to talk about this proposal that concerns the establishment of the municipality of Selia. Mr. Valaiņš mentioned the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which resolves the dispute between VARAM and Ikšķilis regarding organisation of population polls. It should be noted here that Ikšķile contested whether the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has the right to repeal regulations issued by municipalities. And in any event, this judgment quite broadly marked the field of problems that exists at the moment, and it will certainly contribute to the development of case-law in the future and to the understanding of future ministers as well... and ministers as a whole, how far the mandate for this action is. At the same time, we as a ministry... The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development did not contest the right of municipalities to organise these population surveys in various forms and how to ascertain the opinion of citizens, and this judgment, as I mentioned, is quite broad and balanced. And even though it was in favour of the Municipality of Ikšķile, it was quite clear and wide-ranging about the problems that have been identified in this survey... Ikšķile municipality itself, as well as this municipality could use other tools to find out citizens' views, as many other municipalities in Latvia did in the context of administrative territorial reform. If we are talking about the creation of the municipality of Selia, we have a wide-ranging discussion on this issue started with the committee at second reading, and basically the vision of the majority was that we could jointly see the municipalities of this municipality of Selia in a single district, either with Aizkraukle or, accordingly, the municipality of Jēkabpils, and that is the main prerequisite why I personally... I also do not see that the municipality of Selija should be regarded as a separate administrative territory, there is indeed this lack of development potential in the future, because when discussing various types of administrative and also development centres, which could potentially be located in the municipality of Selija, there were discussions about the guest as an administrative and also development centre. However, even when comparing data such as Aizkraukle and Jēkabpils, there is no indication right now that there might be serious economic development, and it is clear... Of course, in any inhabited area, we can provide instruments to promote development, but let us say small economic intensity, it is clear that a huge amount of funds is needed to secure, say, breakthrough and growth. And I think it is much more reasonable to concentrate resources on those areas where there are already these motifs of economic growth and to strengthen them in this way. In this case, it should be noted that the assessment did not include these preconditions for the municipality of Selia. At the same time, however, there are also positive conditions. The fact that the Commission and the Saeima have also supported the President's Egil Levite's proposal to strengthen and develop cultural and historical lands, including Selija. And this was actually one of such very important areas of discussion – this is the cultural and historical aspect and possibilities for municipalities to maintain their traditions and strengthen the community. And that's how... border authorities will not be prevented from doing so. Culture goes across borders, and I am pleased that the Saeima has voted in favour of the President's proposal, which will allow strengthening of cultural and historical communities not only in Kurzeme, Zemgale, Vidzeme and Latgale, but also in Selija. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U212	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U213	The seed has always been, it is, and it will be. Personally, I and, I think, no one will object to it, and Selia, as such, we are all in favour. But we... and I also support Latgale, Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme. If we look at this, then we need to change the reform conceptually. If we form Selia municipality, then we have to create Latgale novads, Vidzeme novads, Zemgale and Kurzeme novads. Unfortunately, this reform is not in the same section of view, and it has been designed differently. As a result, in such an administrative appearance, I cannot support the municipality of Selija, but I agree with the view of Artis Tomas Plēšs and the President's initiative that these regions remain culturally and can continue to cooperate with one another and preserve their cultural and historical heritage, as has been the case so far. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U214	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U215	Dear colleagues, There's one problem here. Unfortunately, the long time it has not been accepted now... the law on referendum. If this had happened, in such crucial moments (also in the issue of Selija), the citizens would probably have made their own decision about this law, but unfortunately, surveys (they are going on) – what is taken into account, what is not. To Selia. See, we, Latvia, have been and are still rich with different cultural diversity, with linguistic diversity, all of which is richness, it must be understood. But over time, we are also losing a lot. The same liv question. It's a pity that you're losing this wealth. But Selijah, who at several meetings, even at conventions, has identified her... Selya... Member of the Commission Residents, scientists, also contemporaries Jānis Stradiņš. Please accept, Sir, the And this time, the administrative territorial reform, is the time when the state could help to strengthen this identity. I agree that an alternative has been sought. This is to support cultural and historical areas. But it is much easier to support these cultural and historical areas, to introduce different types of programmes if there is a specific municipality. I don't know what it's about... what is it about such training that the region must be economically sound and... and with the center – mandatory with the center! That center is formed if people want to, if the country wants to. If people do not want, it remains empty in many countries – completely empty! – not to mention some settlement. The session included this discussion and concrete proposals as well. And, in my view, the most realistic proposal was one of these proposals that Jēkabpils would be a city and... and Selija could be a separate region, where the centre could be in Jēkabpils, but unfortunately Jēkabpils did not remain a city, was not voted for the city as a separate territory, administrative territory. Still, I believe that identity must be preserved, especially that it... This desire is expressed by the citizens themselves, by the majority, or by representatives, by certain local government leaders, when they came together. Let us not forget, local government leaders, Members – they are citizens' elected representatives, and if they say what they say, they say on behalf of citizens, just like us, each of us. We're talking, but the voters are behind us. Then I believe that considering all "for" and "no" would not be a tragedy if we voted in favour of the municipality of Selia. I think that this proposal should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U216	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U217	Thank you. Once again we hear the same thing. Mr Pelša's speech said that huge resources are needed. What and how? What are the objectives? What programs? We said that, here, the President of Latvia has proposed a cultural-historical association called Selija and that the Saeima has supported it in some form and manner. It seems to me that, in this case, it is very important to look at something, as happens in other European Union countries too. Let us say, in Spain, the whole structure has been built in this way. Catalonia, Basque Country... and it is not only Spain. There are also Belgium, other countries. What are we afraid to take good examples from Europe? What are we ashamed of experimenting in this field? Supporting, above all, the desire of citizens to preserve their identity, to preserve their cultural and historical traditions, and to preserve their unity. I think that, in this case, this proposal is in place. And its reasoning against this proposal does not hold any criticism. I would call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U218	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U219	Yes, colleagues, I am talking about the specific proposal if we are already talking here about reasoning and criticism. Given, as we have already voted in the past... This proposal is, by its very nature, no longer relevant. And we all understand it, but we continue to debate it. But if we're talking about Selie, we all, I think we know what history was, how... In my opinion, this is already a version, either, at least in the fifth one, of the different options offered to Selia, the local authorities themselves have gone through discussions and have not finally discussed anything, and yet and again. And now, believe me, I've spoken to the people of Selia, I've been there regularly... she's on the way, she's on the way. And there even prevails, well, one opinion. First of all, if we talk about the same Neret, for example, if it was historically always near either Jēkabpils, or Aizkraukle, and it doesn't see any problem right now, if it were again at Aizkraukle, which, by the way... They have voted so too, so you can even agree to those population surveys somewhere if we are told that the coalition interprets them and uses them, or uses them, then, well, the opposition is doing exactly the same thing because of the often votes in favour of the Aizkraukle. And I could tell you a lot about these people's wishes and so on. But this Selija (and my colleagues have already mentioned it), well, it's not a story that's now suddenly invented, Selia all, I think Members know where and what will be the historical Selija and so on, and they have not been forbidden to cooperate and do things together for any time. Somehow so far, you see, now (I don't know why, I can feel it), it has failed. But now that some of them can remain without work and power, they have suddenly managed to reach an agreement. It's just not a matter of why the only Members who are from Seliah, they... They have never spoken to this day. I have a lot of questions as to whether there really is a fight for citizens, or whether the gentlemen are simply prima facie sharing their positions, because one of the arguments I was not embarrassed by Mr. One to admit... the head of the municipality: “But then I will not be elected anymore.” Yes, I hope that you will no longer be chosen, sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U220	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U221	In the Commission, proposal 211 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U222	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 211. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 19, against – 49, abstained – 12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U223	The 212nd proposal, tabled by Mr Valainis, provides for the establishment of the municipality of Selija with an administrative centre in the island. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U224	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 212. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 6, against – 51, abstained – 25. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U225	The 213rd proposal, also submitted by Member Viktors Valainis, provides for the establishment of a municipality of Selija with an administrative centre in the island. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U226	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 213. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 5, against – 54, abstained – 22. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Registration of Members is ongoing. It's over. Thank you. Interruption until 5 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U227	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. Ms Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla has applied for the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U228	Hello, colleagues! ( Technical problems.) Can I? ( Technical problems.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U229	(I'm talking to someone.) One minute, yes, in the system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U230	Hello, colleagues! I applied for a procedure because I find it strange that, in this fact, our country must adopt a law on the very important issue that we need to debate... that some Members, in so far as they are instructed not to speak. I think it is very important that we speak, but (Interface.) ... All right, again. Good evening, colleagues! Do you hear me now? Yeah? Thank you. Good evening, colleagues! I just wanted to talk about the procedure for my reflection because (A sound break.) ... Well, my time has now passed. I'll try again. Will it be okay now? Thank you. ( Laughs) Hello, again! Dear colleagues, I would like to say that this is a very important reform for the whole country, and we have to debate it, but I would like to say in any case that I am enjoying this debate. This is very important, because this debate listens to people in many places in Latvia. And I think it is very important for people to see that we are adopting this law, that it is difficult for us to have a debate, we are collapsing opinions, we cannot adopt this law quickly, quickly, in a few readings. We must listen to all views. I would like to thank my colleague Janis Butan, who says he's a professional, and he's almost a doctor on this issue. I would like to say that it is very important for us to be able to speak on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U231	Please turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko, who also wants to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U232	Thank you, colleagues. I also really enjoy this debate and the stories of Mr Bhutan, but I would just like to point out, because of the procedure and the verbatim report of the Saeima, that unfortunately the coalition was the one that cut the time for the debate for the opposition for up to one minute at second reading, if I am not mistaken, and only the opposition's very strong opposition led to the fact that we returned to the debate for at least three minutes. If we are talking about the importance of the debate, it is unfortunate to say that, at second reading, we were actually prevented from expressing our views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U233	Thank you. So colleagues have spoken about the importance of the debate. We are currently working in the e-Saami, and the time for the debate is five minutes. Does Member Feldman want to say something about the procedure? Please turn on the microphone for Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U234	Thank you for the various views on the procedure. I would also like to point out, precisely as regards the procedure, that it is precisely now at third reading that the time for the debate has not been shortened, and therefore, too, there is no obstacle to Member Stepanenko, and please inform me if someone is preventing you from exercising your rights in the democratic process as well. Stop watching the past, all the time just about the past. Let us see the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U235	All right, colleagues, thank you. So please close this section. Let's go back to work. Let's go to the bill. Member of the Commission responsible, Arturs Toms Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U236	Yes, colleagues, let us look in the future and continue to examine the draft law on administrative territories and settlements at third reading, table No. 2521A. And we're on the 214th proposal from Member Viktors Valainis. This is about to remove from Kraslava... the vald of Kaplava. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U237	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 214. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no – 58, abstain – 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U238	Proposal 215 tabled by Mr Valainis provides for the maintenance of the district of Kraslava within its existing limits. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U239	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 215. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no – 57, abstain – 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U240	The 216th proposal has been tabled by Aldis Adamovičs, who, unlike the version proposed by the Commission, constitutes the Kraslava municipality, which is without the existing county of Dagda. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U241	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U242	Yes, hello, colleagues! So I have tabled proposals 216 and 218, which intend to leave two pretty strong and large areas of Latgale in the present areas. This is the novads of Kraslava and Dagdas. Well, if Kraslava region is like a large part of the former Kraslava district, then the... I would like to say and explain in more detail that at present there is also a large and strong county with about seven thousand inhabitants and as large areas as the district of Kraslava. Currently, Dagda municipality consists of both the city of Dagda and 10 parish... And it has to be said that the education system in Dagda region is well developed, starting from pre-school interest education institutions, also two good secondary schools (Dagda and Ezernieku), as well as a subsidiary of Daugavpils Construction Technology, are active in vocational education. It should also be said that in Dagda the health and social care centre Dagda is very well functioning. As well as all the... the functions and services provided for in the municipal law for the population. There are very large and strong farms in Dagda region, developed agriculture, as well as entrepreneurs operating both in Dagda city and in the region. In recent years, too, it has been very... very large and large projects of European Union funds in the field of utilities and infrastructure have been carried out. And so, colleagues, I call for my proposals to be supported: so 216. – to preserve the Krāslava district in its current territory – and 218. – To save Dagda municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U243	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U244	The Commission did not support the 216 proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U245	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 216. - A Member's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 11, against – 56, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U246	The 217th proposal submitted by Ms Inga Goldberga is aimed at adding the municipality of Krāslava to the district of Kastulina. I would like to mention here that the Commission received a letter and opinion from Aglona Municipality Council, and they state in this document that they support the addition of both Šķeltovas, Graveras and Kastuļina parish to Kraslava Municipality. At second reading, the Commission agreed to add Šķeltova and Graveru parish to Kraslava municipality. At the third reading, the addition of Kastuļina parish to Kraslava municipality was also supported and the proposal was formally supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U247	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 217. – Member Goldberg's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 80, against – 4, refrain – 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U248	The 218st proposal presented by Aldis Adamovičs (as he also mentioned in his address) provides for maintaining the boundaries of Dagda district in their current appearance. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U249	Please call me! We will vote for 218. - A Member's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 12, against – 56, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U250	The 219th proposal, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, provides for the Municipality of Kuldīga to be excluded from the annex to the draft law. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U251	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 219. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 59, abstained – 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U252	The 220st proposal tabled by Mr Valainis provides for the exclusion of a number of administrative areas from the district of Kuldīga. Following discussions within the Commission, this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U253	Please call me! Let's vote for 220. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 59, abstained – 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U254	Proposal 221 has been submitted by Member Ēriks Pucens, and it provides for the exclusion of Alsunga parish and Gudnieki parish from Kuldīga municipality. This proposal is linked to the other proposals made by Mr Pucena, which provide for the establishment of the municipality of Alsunga. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U255	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U256	Colleagues! In 2009, the Suiti cultural space was added to the World Heritage List as a unique and sustainable value. Suiti is the only ones in Latvia. If the regions are not just an administrative economic unit with people as production units, then the Suiti region should be like a beautiful macagon in the middle of the districts. The contribution and capacity of the Suits in the field of cultural tourism is ultimately also an economic category, with only high added value. Suitus has been appreciated by Japanese, Estonians, Lithuanians and other outsiders, but it has been Latvians themselves with caution. Tell me, let's sing, there's no evil from it. Suiti, with her songs and humors, was pleased by us in the Saeima on several occasions and in others. Of course, this is not the main reason why Suiti county should be located. Of course, Suiti will not disappear, also in Kuldīga and Ventspils regions, but it is divided. Can we not please the Suiti and ourselves by appreciating not only the carriers of economic but also the carriers of supereconomic values, voting in favour of the Suiti municipality. In 2009, a favourable comment was also made on the inclusion of the Suiti on the UNESCO World Heritage List. And someone wrote: “Suits are niperious, self-confident, presumptuous and lenient – everything that is severely lacking for the average Latvians, malachies.” End of quote. I am in favour of the malachies and also call on the other colleagues to join me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U257	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U258	Hello, colleagues! So this proposal that I tabled is linked to my proposal 223, where I am referring to the creation of a county of Alsunga or Suiti. In the 2009 reform, Gudenieki parish was added to Kuldīga district, and during this time the Gudenieki parish has lost a very large population. So the biggest drop in population in Kuldīga district is 27,7 percent, and it is located in the very outskirts of Kuldīga district, where this asphalt road for the people of Gudenieki was also promised, but what the government has not done until now (I hope maybe after this reform it will be). But if the Gadenieki parish were to be located in the newly created suitu, or Alsunga municipality, then it would only be necessary to no longer have an asfalte about six kilometres and the Gdenieki parish would be much closer to the centre of Alsunga. Maybe I'll tell you about my 223 proposal. I call for my proposal to be supported and for the municipality of Alsunga and Gudenieki to be excluded from Kuldīga district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U259	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U260	I call for support for this proposal, because it really has great meaning and great importance in the history, present, past and future of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U261	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U262	After hearing representatives of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission from these counties and parishes... from the Suiti, the conviction was that a suiti region was needed, but the only problem was that the municipality of Jūrkalne, located in Ventspils region, does not agree with it. I think that this unity is not complete. Although maintaining identity is very important. And in an administrative area, as it once is one of the mechanisms that helps to preserve this identity, different programmes can be recommended, including by the State, but in the absence of a common administrative area, common management, common representatives, Members in one common municipality, these common measures are less effective. And I would, however, call for support for the Suiti. Because we are often looking at the European Union, looking at directives, but we are not looking at their progress, the order of what these Member States of the European Union have. And this order... As one of the conditions is this diversity, this veneration... This conservation and development of unique wealth, traditions. We ignore in Latvia, we still have prejudices, perhaps from the previous system or similar. We have to look again at what we're asking for or... the needs of these locals. And the suiti demands their own county. However, I would call for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U263	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U264	Yeah, thank you. I would also call on the Saeima to support this proposal at the moment, because cultural diversity, people's unity are a source of power for Latvia. And in the Saeima building very often, national holidays are invited to be directly present by Suiti wives. And this time I invite you to show respect and appreciation not only for the celebrations with applause, but in this case to confirm words by works. I invite you to support this proposal and demonstrate the value and respect appropriate to Latvian cultural history and cultural traditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U265	The name to Member Eric Pucen for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U266	Yes, in addition to a little bit of replying to Andris, in 2009, when the potential Suiti District was already discussed in the reform framework, the Members of Gudenieki and Jūrkalne voted in favour of the creation of such Suiti District, they were supportive. And I... I think that people may now be afraid of change in the Jurmala region, but if we were to move such a proposal like the Suiti region and have some targeted state aid programme for the Suiti region, which we should stand for, it would be just super. And I really call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U267	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U268	Yes, colleagues, I will also call for a vote in favour of the Suiti district. Why? First of all, there is a really bright cultural and historical identity, which, unlike Selija, does not figure out the list of historical states of Latvia established by the President of Latvia. There are therefore doubts as to how this identity will be maintained in the future if the State is not taken into account. The second argument is that in fact the two municipalities expressed a clear wish to exist precisely as a specific, separate Suiti region. The third argument is that not only the municipal council itself, but also the residents themselves expressed this clear wish, because it was the residents of Alsunga and Gudenieki district that were the most active participants of pikets and settlements here at the Saeima, which could be verified by all Members. Last argument. If we refuse the Suiti region right now, then maybe we will be able to see in reality that these territories are dying, showing in reality the existence of the outskirt effect in the future of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U269	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U270	Hello, colleagues! I listened very carefully to the whole debate and wanted to talk about the Suiti. In our Saeima, 13, the most popular Member is Suiti, and that is me. I'm... My grandfather and my relatives respectively, and the roots are of the Suiti. I know that the Suiti are very strong people with a very strong cultural and historical identity, and that is why this proposal should be supported. After all, we build along regions not only by technical parameters, but also by taking into account human identity issues. An example of this is that of Selija, who was mentioned by another Member, with whom I have a very controversial relationship on a daily basis, but where there is a reason why such arguments are being made. If such arguments are expressed about one region of Latvia, then it is quite logical that the same arguments can be expressed about other regions of Latvia, and Suiti are very strong people. I mean, if we give the Suits an opportunity to some self-determination in their... in its own region, Latvia will only become stronger from it. The whole of Latvia will benefit from this. In addition, Kuldīga, Ventspils, Liepaja and the whole Kurzeme will benefit as well. I would call for support for this proposal, not only because my roots are from the Suiti, and not only because I personally know the Suiti wives, not all of course, but well, at least part. Yes, these are the arguments. I think there are not so many rational arguments here, as well as emotional arguments and moments such emotional intelligence and emotional co-understanding and helping about people in Latvia are also necessary in the parliament. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U271	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U272	Colleagues, I would urge you not to be selective in the facts and information that we are likely to have at our disposal. I have received a letter, and I allow all Members of the Saeima to receive a letter from the “Maģie suiti” association, which represents members of the Suiti cultural identity in Jūrkalne parish. They make it clear that they do not want to build such a municipality in Alsunga. I quote: “We do not understand if others are trying to express their views on behalf of the seamounts, as if they were good targets. We have heard about the various local activities of the Suite Community, including the establishment of the Suite Parliament. We inform you that there is no seamounter in this self - established form, and no one has heard that someone would like to work there. We hope that our concerns about the future of our parish will also be understood by those Suiti who express the views of the Suiti community, and thus as if they are common, without talking about it in all the Suiti parishes.” It's also worth saying... It is also worth noting that in 2009, when the previous administrative territorial reform was carried out, a survey was carried out in Jūrkalne Parish, where the total population in the parish was about 400 inhabitants. 192 people participated in the survey, 175 of whom expressed their desire to join Ventspils Municipality. And I think the Suiti are really strong. Suiti is, has been and will be, and what shows the power of the Suiti, in spite of the different timings, the different boundaries that have been... The Suiti culture has been strong and developed for over 400 years. I think that in this case too, when we decide on the creation of more economically powerful and generally, more powerful municipalities, even after... Suiti will be strong after this reform and will be able to maintain their culture as good as it has been so far. I will not support this proposal and call on my colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U273	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U274	Do you hear me? What? You hear me? Thank you. I would also like to talk about the motives for voting. ( Technical problems.) Mr. Plesh quoted the letter from the Mago Suiti. I got a Suiti parliamentary letter. I think you have heard in Parliament that the Suiti are three different types – great, magic and crayons. And I assume that there is no political agreement between them as to how they would like to live in the future as a single suiti. ( Technical problems.) I would like to say that I will vote in favour. I've been involved in an expedition, I've studied, analysed, written about the Suiti, being part of the Janina Kursīte-Pakule expedition. I cannot vote 'no' because I promised to vote 'in favour' to the Suit Parliament. Even if this vote is negative for the Suits today, I would like to say that every law captures the reality with the mood of the past. This will perhaps give the Suiti a chance to understand their situation in the future in Latvia and to agree on the way they would like to develop. I remember that in 2009 there was already talk about this unasphalt road. It is very sad to hear that the country does not appreciate this very important region in our culture, ethnography, our mentality. By this law, with this vote, the country will also show its attitude towards the Suiti. So I'm calling... If this vote is negative for the unity of the Suites, then the Suiti will probably be able to correct them in the future (not to be heard). ... Let us correct this law in favour of the unity of the Suites! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U275	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U276	Hello, colleagues! I call on us not to deviate from what this bill is about at this assigned hour of the evening. This draft law that we are looking at is about administrative areas. It is not about showing respect, it is not about our ancestors and all the history that we would record in the same bill. We're also not barons that can divide the earth into something of merit and something... some empathy. We have here, in this draft law, a number of new administrative areas that will be strong, and will be economically capable of providing both educational and cultural life at a level that enables the Suiti to flourish and flourish. In the already existing Alsunga district, not all the numerous Suiti collectives are able to go to Riga for the Song Festival and to other places for the municipal money itself. We need a bigger, stronger region for Suiti development. We have provided in this draft law other ways of honoring and developing territories. I therefore call for respect for the Suits and for a vote to be taken against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U277	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U278	Yeah. In opposition to Mr Ples, I just wanted to point out that... only that this proposal, 221, which we are currently examining, provides for the exclusion of points 18.1 and 18.3 of the Annex on the municipalities of Kuldīga, namely that it is only the municipality of Alsunga and the municipality of Gudenieki. Therefore, the argument about Jūrkalne parish is irrelevant in this case. I repeat: please vote in favour because it is also correct from the point of view of the municipal council and the wishes of the residents of the municipality.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U279	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U280	My family’s home was in Gudeniek. These are called bulls. Because my grandfather and my relatives... Their last name was Bull. So when you, dear colleagues, vote for the Suiti Municipality... That you might be motivated in some way... And I can't find any other arguments. If you vote in favour of the Suiti District, then I will consider changing the name from Gobzem to Bullis in honor of the Suiti District. So that I invite you to support the Suits and call on this identity to be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U281	The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U282	Good evening, dear colleagues! If we are talking about Suiti, then out of the three regions, the Suiti will be in two regions after the reform. Why would I call for a vote against this proposal? The Suiti themselves are not united in how to live in the future, as has already been mentioned here, and it may be necessary to go for another time so that the people themselves will agree on how they are better – whether all together or each in divided regions. I have met several leaders of non-governmental organizations who are working to care for the cultural space of Suiti every day. They have shown me tables of how the Suiti of Jūrkalne and Kuldīga Gudenieku Suiti are co-financed from their municipalities and as Alsunga, because it does not have such great value, they cannot co-finance these Suiti cultural space projects. At least those leaders of non-governmental organisations with whom I have spoken would very much like Alsunga municipality to be added to Kuldīga district. And yes, Suiti are very strong people. If they are able, in three regions, to enter the UNESCO List of Intangible Cultural Heritage. Then I can't imagine why they're losing their identity when they're in two regions. I would also like to say that if we voted in favour of a single Suiti municipality, it would be all... ( A sound defect.) the smallest region of Latvia and, at the same time, the poorest region of Latvia. Would the poorest region of Latvia be the one able to develop successfully? Well, I doubt it very strongly. I therefore call for the vote to be taken against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U283	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U284	The Commission did not support proposal 221.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U285	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 221. - Member Pucene's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 36, against – 43, abstained – 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U286	222. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It shall provide for the maintenance of the district of Kuldiga within its existing limits. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U287	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 222. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 9, against – 58, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U288	223. – Member Ērika Pucence's proposal. Associated with proposal 221, which was just rejected by the Saeima, and intends to build Alsunga Municipality. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U289	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U290	Indeed, I am very sorry for the previous vote. I have come to live in a truly near Alsunga region. But also by comparing... We are always looking at the development of Lithuania, the development of Estonia. Estonia also has small districts that are as large as this newly created Suiti region. There are 3200 inhabitants in Setuma in Estonia. If we were to create a suiti district, its population would be 2300 and that would be, as my colleague said, a really beautiful flower in Kurzeme, which could also develop with some strange dynamics. The fact that Alsunga will be included in Kuldīga... Well, there won't be any megabeat right away, it won't start... do not start to produce, do not start children at birth. They will live the same life. While working in Kuldīga district council, I have seen an outlying effect here in Kuldīga district council, where the municipalities themselves receive less and less funding. This is a striking example – what has been the attitude towards the Gudeneers, where asphalt has still not been touched and... The guides are, indeed, completely empty, people leave there, schools are locked down, and nothing will happen there. I don't wish it to Alsunga. I really have a lot of familiar people from Alsunga, and I go to visit them. At other times, they are joking at me when we are talking about reform, that Alsunga may not be connected to Kuldiga, but Kuldiga will be added to Alsunga. I hope that the people of Alsunga – the Suiti – will not lose their zeal and we will all have to fight together for the development and sustainability of the cultural space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U291	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U292	I will also support this Erika Pucen proposal because in fact there is a dangerous trend in the country: centralisation, centralisation of funds. When there is this desire to decentralise, as I have already proposed, through the regions, we are faced with great resistance. Now, when I make these large regions, my complete conviction is that the same type of centralisation, the centralisation of resources will take place in the new regions, and this far-reaching effect will increase even further, because the development of the outskirts is in fact dependent on a number of factors. The first, of course, is the resources. There is always a lack of funds. In the center, where the municipalities are located, say, the headquarters, the central district, the city usually solves its problems first. This is already evident from the current situation, from the previous reform of 2008, in 2009. What's left is hard to say... Second. There is also a reason what the structure of Members is, how honest these Members are in the municipality, including the President. It will or will not – this is a high risk. On the contrary – if there are these small regions, even the smallest region, as well as in this case, if we create, well, it is a guarantee – with smaller, larger funds... it is a guarantee that they will deal with their own problems, the Suiti problems in this case. I mentioned the small district of Baltinava yesterday. One Member called me and told me that for some time, Baltinava parish, sorry, the district members donated 100% of their salaries, some tens of euros, for the needs of the municipality. In fact, he worked for nothing. This is patriotism, it is local patriotism, so that it would be better for the little region. Can such examples be found in the large regions? Is there anything in Riga... Is that so? Is there such an example that a Member sanctifies his salary to Riga? None! I therefore stress once again that the wishes and demands of the local people must be taken into account. In my view, it was imperative that this reform should have done so. Mandatory! Suiti, testicles, Latgale municipalities – everyone who thinks they want to live better, and if there is this possibility, it is not contrary to our legislation, with the Constitution, had to be allowed. Why don't we stop?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Some size, some phobia, some size phobia. There will be a center – it will be better. Well, it's not better, it's not better in the outskirts. I therefore also support the creation of a county of these Suiti. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U293	(Sound defect.) Mr Dolgopolov, your name. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U294	Thank you. Sorry, there was something with the machine. I already mentioned today that, in principle, the State lays down the principles of financing – municipal financing. That's the truth. Independently, a large municipality or a small municipality. Let's see today's statistics. Of the 119 municipalities, about 110 live with the state... with grants from the municipal financial equalisation fund. What does that mean? There are also towns inside, as they have now started to be called, and small and large municipalities. As a result, the way in which the state organises financing – municipal financing – will also depend on the life of local government residents. So today, those arguments from colleagues, from the “Development/About!” association. Well, to be honest, there are quite such surfaces, because we are laying down this procedure ourselves, these principles. Unfortunately, however, reform fathers have not thought about this at all. I have said, not for nothing, today that the need to establish a law of this kind that lays down the principles of municipal financing is extremely important. Thank you. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U295	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U296	Hello, colleagues! For the second reading, I had tabled a proposal to add Jūrkalne parish to Kuldīga district with this idea, so that all Suiti are friendly in one region and they have a common chance to develop. I got quite a large one, could even say, a fire band in my direction from the side of Jūrkalne. I had to go and see you later... and I listened to their views, and I join in treating the Suiti very well with the fact that they are each in their own municipality. Of course, at the moment it turns out that they will be two, not three. But they have felt, at least the magic Suiti have felt, that Ventspils region is proud of them, invests, supports and seeks as much as possible, as they say, to promote the development of this cultural space and its opportunities, projects and various ideas. Therefore, I cannot support this particular proposal, because the Municipality of Jūrkalne convinced me and I withdrew it at second reading. They very much want to stay in Ventspils region, where they are at the moment, and continue to operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U297	The name to Member Eric Pucen for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U298	Yeah, it's a little extra... I remember very well that before the elections, there were two parties who had gone to the trade fair in Alsunga. It was KPV LV and Development/About! who spoke about how well the Suiti region will be, how it will develop, how it will support. I think before the next elections for Development/About! he won't go to Alsunga anymore and tell us how good everything will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U299	The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U300	Hello, colleagues! I also wanted to respond to what several other colleagues have said. If we are talking about the Suiti district envisaged by this proposal, as has already been pointed out, it would really be the smallest region, including the financially poorest region. And I think that we, as Parliament, also have a duty to be very national to look at this whole reform and Latvia as a whole. One thing is that I believe that we each individually, with great respect and admiration, deal with the cultural and historical heritage of the Suites and really show our respect to every person who cherishes and cares for this heritage every day and continues to develop it and pass it on to future generations. But when it comes to administrative territories, we must be able to take a national look at this and understand whether this region will really be able to support itself and help itself in the best way... and support their citizens. Colleagues have also mentioned this outskirt effect and one proposal which, if I remember correctly, before... or yesterday, we looked at it and voted for it... I also voted against this proposal. And I think it's very important here, not just with such a proposal in the bill "Law on Administrative Territories and Populations" to try to solve this problem, but the central state power – in this case the legislator... Both legislators and executives – not to avoid responsibility, because of course the government and the Saeima must also be able to assume responsibility for residents in the outskirts. The municipality of Suiti is on our western border. We need to look at and, of course, be able to analyse the acute problems that people face on a daily basis and how we can help resolve them centrally, so that there is no effect on the outskirts, so that people are not forced to move: in the worst case, emigrate from the country, at best, move to the nearest regional centres or the capital city of Riga. Of course, we want people to live where they... where their home side is. I have already mentioned, and I will take the opportunity to reiterate that administrative territorial reform in this case is not the only instrument for thinking about the municipal budget. Thinking of a man... We always want to put people at the heart of all things. There are other instruments at our disposal, including on our agenda. I also call on colleagues in the Saeima to be able to look at the administrative territorial reform in a national and context with the other instruments that have been given us. One of these I have already mentioned and will allow me to repeat it – we are on the agenda... I'll also draw public attention to this, which... Especially people who... of which many truly live in rural areas and also in border areas, also in remote areas. We have the opportunity to help many of them because we know that people are less well off in cities outside. Indeed, many may only receive a minimum wage. We need to address this instrument, look at how we can support people by increasing their income without imposing this low income on tax, which is disproportionate. It would also be a state action on our part as legislator and on the part of the government as executive power. Those people who, unfortunately,... Often it happens in the countryside – whether it's fast loans or it's gambling, which drives them into the yoke of debt, which maybe we might have small debts in Riga. It may be small debts, in our sense, but for these people it is like a spiral of death, if it could be said that they are not allowed to break up and flourish, and to devote the funds they have at their disposal to their family and children, for example. That is why I really call for these draft laws, which would make it easier for our citizens to have their daily lives, such as the small debt package, to move actively in parallel with administrative territorial reform, because we not only have to say to the people that we will adopt administrative territorial reform and then some other instruments that will help the regions, but we must also show our good will and readiness to go in parallel. Let people understand that we are not only talking and acting, but also doing. Indeed, as I said before, I believe 13. The Saeima has demonstrated its ability to drive forward bold reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U301	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U302	I would call not only for a national look (which is, of course, important) at the districts, but also for national, that is, financially, to support, where necessary, excellence... And Suiti is our excellence, Latvia's excellence, one of the few excellences. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U303	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U304	In the Commission, the 223st proposal tabled by Member Pucens was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U305	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 223. - Member Pucene's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 25, against – 46, abstained – 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U306	224. - Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is envisaged to maintain the Alsunga region within its existing limits. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U307	Please call me! We will vote for 224. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 21, against – 56, abstained – 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U308	225. - Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It shall provide for the maintenance of the county of Skrund within its existing boundaries. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U309	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U310	In the run-up to reforms, it happens at times that we are making some mistakes and perhaps also looking at this proposal on maintaining Skrunda, we have made one mistake because we have left the debate at third reading on where the city of Skrunda and Skrunda should then be. At the moment, the city and the region of Skrunda will be included in Kuldīga district, but in fact, I think for most of us the city of Skrunda is associated with the road of Liepaja, because when we drive from Riga to Liepaja, we often stop in Skrunda and before Skrunda we come past Saldum. Its traffic art is more directly with Candy, and the connection to Skrunda is, in my opinion, more with Candy, and also in terms of distance, in terms of time, in terms of public transport... In any other transport sense, it is the Saldus where it is easier for the inhabitants of Skrunda and the region to get to it than for the inhabitants of Kuldīga. Consequently, I hope that, by rejecting this proposal (it is clear that the region is too small and there is a need for inclusion in a larger region), it will still be corrected and reviewed... examine what mistakes have been made in adopting this reform, because it is understandable that it is not only the one who does nothing. We are, however, the perpetrators and make mistakes when we do it. I call for this proposal not to be supported, but for the debate to continue on where Skrunda would be better if it were Kuldīga or still Sweets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U311	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U312	Yes, a little doctor's colleague wants to answer. Kuldiga and Skrund have really close links, because Kuldīga are also cooperating with Skrund in terms of sports school... in sport terms – volleyball culture is developed jointly, championships are held. I would ask indeed, colleagues, to work more on the development of the highway so that Kuldiga and Skrunda can be connected, because in the past, Kuldiga and Skrunda were in the same district in real time. And on the sweet side – well, really nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U313	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U314	I haven't really understood. We must now prepare a proposal for amendments to this law, or will we organise a fourth reading? Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U315	I closed the debate. The Commission will hopefully be clear.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U316	After discussions within the Commission about Kuldīga Municipality and Saldus Municipality in general... In the opinion of the Commission, he didn't see... To leave Skrunda’s municipality within its existing limits, because there are indeed different socio-economic challenges for Skrunda as a relatively small region and others. Consequently, the 225th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U317	Please call me! We will vote for 225. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 56, abstained – 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U318	226. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to exclude Baldone municipality and city Baldone from the Commission’s version – Ķekava municipality. One of the configurations that Mr Valaiņš proposed to build together with Iecava Municipality, we already decided and the Saeima rejected it. The 226th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U319	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U320	Hello, colleagues! I definitely join this time in the Commission's decision on this... Rejection of both this and the next two proposals. Let me explain why. I myself come from the outskirts of Ķekava, which are also bordering the Baldone region, and I think this situation is very well known. Both regions actually divide the education infrastructure, because often the residents of Ķekava district choose to send their children to either Baldone Secondary School or to another school there. The Baldonians do exactly the same. Each of these regions has its own strengths, and each of them, of course, has its own weaknesses. As a resident of Ķekava, I certainly see only the benefits of merging these two regions. Moreover, I am not quite clear about the next proposal and the 228th proposal, which is intended to leave the Baldone region entirely in its own right, but I will perhaps also debate it at 228. In any case, what would be important for Members to know – I have also asked Ķekava Municipality Council Members about whether Ķekava Municipality should remain stand alone, because, of course, it is self-sufficient and viable, so to say, also by itself, while Ķekava Municipality Council Members with whom I have spoken have repeatedly stressed support for this reform and have pointed out that they... they have no objection. As I understand it, the commission has also tried to tell you that, well, it would be... that there may be such objections. Since Ķekava municipality strongly supports the merger of these two regions. I will therefore call on everyone to reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U321	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U322	I support the words of my colleague, Anita Muižniece, and I fully agree, and it is true that if you have been to Baldone... We're also looking at how the Baldone people move and where their main thing is... the main roads they drive, and where it's like... and we can see that it is already mostly in Riga. The road to Riga leads either through Ķekava or the other option is through Salaspils... through Riga HES. Thus, given that the transport movement and any movement – both economic and... Education was mentioned... It is only logical that Baldone, Daugmale and Ķekava together are in one municipality. I therefore agree and call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U323	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U324	The Commission did not support the 226 proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U325	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 226. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 57, abstained – 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U326	227. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It provides for the maintenance of Ķekava municipality within its existing limits. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U327	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 227. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 6, against – 57, abstained – 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U328	228. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Provision shall be made for the maintenance of the district of Baldone within its existing boundaries. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U329	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 228. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 57, abstained – 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U330	229. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is envisaged to exclude from the annex to the draft law the Land of Lower Courland. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U331	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 229. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 5, against – 57, abstained – 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U332	230. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Makes the Lower Courland... The municipality of Southern Kurzeme changes the administrative centre from Liepaja to Grobiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U333	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U334	I have also tabled a proposal that is, in substance, identical to this proposal to ensure that the administrative centre of the Lower Courland, which is already the administrative centre of the Southern Courland District, is located in Grobin. I will argue a little why this proposal. When it was proposed that an administrative centre would be located in Liepaja, the local authorities of the future South Kurzeme region said – yes, it is very likely that it is a good solution, easy to reach – and tried to get involved in this, it could be said, in the execution of the decision, that they knew where they could deploy this administrative centre in Liepaja, so that there was both decision-making power and customer service. But unfortunately, knowing the situation and opportunities, meeting with Liepaja City Municipality, they realized that it is quite difficult. The premises were offered that are difficult to reach: the fourth floor, and the parking of cars in the center of Liepaja did not turn out to be so easy to solve. Then they came to the proposal that they had a very good infrastructure in their own region, very good opportunities for setting up an administrative centre in Grobina. Of course, they also promised that they would definitely provide a customer service point in Liepaja, so that people who are easier to reach Liepaja than Grobina, for example, by driving from Pāvilosta or Nica, could leave their documents and wishes in Liepaja as well. I received an electronic letter inviting me to submit this proposal and I also submitted it. As the heads of all eight municipalities (one municipality was represented by the Vice-President of the Council and the others by the Chairs of the Council) supported this proposal, I also submitted it and I very much invite the Saeima to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U335	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U336	Hello, colleagues! I would perhaps like to object a little to Mrs Inricksone, because if we look at – and we really build the reform on economic foundations and facts – then we know that the premises in the home service building were already provided for the needs of the new district council. If we were looking at the new breakdown, if it were Grobiņa, then they would only be 13 kilometres from the existing Liepaja City Council, with which they would have to work. The same planning, the same waste management planning and all the other functions that we have already delegated to joint cooperation. This would not be economically justified if we now separated them into separate cities. In addition, we have also adopted transitional provisions that an evaluation of cooperation between these cities and the surrounding regions should be carried out by 2024. And if in the future this evaluation will be inclined to the fact that the combined territories with the state cities work better and more efficiently, then it is only normal that already now the whole municipality of the surrounding municipality would be in the city of Liepaja, not in Grobina or Rucava or anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U337	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U338	In addition to my colleague Uldis Budrikis, I can add: it is clear that Liepaja is the big city in this region at the end of Latvia and that all residents of these rural areas, sparsely populated areas, need and need a variety of services – be they health services, education services, or some kind of shopping, and very... Indeed, it is very likely that most of these people also work in Liepaja. It is only logical: if these people need to get mostly to Liepaja, that at the same time this administration, the district administration, is located in Liepaja city, rather than the situation that residents go to Grobiņš, but at the same time they need to combine practical with practical, therefore also to get to Liepaja, to receive other services, and this is excessive time consumption. In my opinion, an absolutely ineffective solution, the more guided it is from an emotional point of view. If, from an emotional point of view, I think that you could even look not only at Grobiņš as this administrative centre, but also at other settlements in the district as well. Here we could expand such a wide-ranging idea – be it Priekule, Pāvilosta, Rucava or another place. Thus, in my opinion, Uldis Budriķis was very concrete and correct to argue that this centre should be located in Liepaja, because this is the most effective way. All residents of the municipality meet here, regardless of whether the administrative centre is located in Grobina or elsewhere, because Liepaja is already the destination for the residents to get to. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U339	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U340	Yes, indeed, this is one of the largest regions to be created after the reform. My proposals, which will be followed later, also separate Aizputa and Pavilosta from the Southern Kurzeme Region, because this distance to the administrative centre is huge and citizens might have a problem achieving it. I'll support Grobins... The Grobiņš as an administrative centre, but I hope that my proposal for the creation of an Aizpute district, where there could be an administrative centre for Aizpute and Pāvilosta, will be supported. As set out below, Grobiņa will be the development centre, as the administrative centres of the newly created municipalities will be the development centres. Grobiņa is close enough to Liepaja to develop, but the Aizpute will stay as it gets away and begin to lag behind... lag behind the development of Latvia... also on the Latvian map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U341	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U342	Well, see, even in this case, when we are building this large area, there is the same problem that I have already mentioned earlier in relation to cities that will no longer be centres. The question arises as to how these cities will be managed, how services will be provided to citizens and beyond, and so on. As far as the centre is concerned. In any case, if there is an agreement between several regions that are now merging, about a particular centre – in this case Grobiņš – it is much better than if Liepaja is chosen as this administrative centre because it still benefits. First of all, one center more... This means more opportunities for people to develop. Secondly, there is some form of decentralisation. Decentralisation, which is a normal phenomenon in a Member State of the European Union. Latvia is decentralisation in general. You can now mention this same Estonia again. Please, Tartu – Ministry of Culture. We're coming. We believe that there is much in one place as "more efficient" (footsteps). Bullshit! Any place where this centre, or administrative centre or city, is also its jobs, people. It is not just a social problem; it is self-determination. That may have to be understood. In this case, which relates to the Southern Kurzeme region, as I remember from the commission, there was an agreement on the centre in Grobin. Maybe I'm wrong, but I think it was. I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U343	Thank you. The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U344	Good evening, dear colleagues, again! For those who talk about the fact that there are only fields around Liepaja in the future South Kurzeme district, I would like to remind you that there will be five cities in the future district. Of course, there could be a discussion, which is the centre of the district, but currently existing regions have agreed with each other that it will be Grobiņa. I would like to say that, in contact with the existing county managers... Together, they have done a great deal of research, both on how to provide services to citizens and on how to manage the new district better. A week ago, I contacted several managers of existing municipalities, including the management of Nīca Municipality, who confirmed that yes, those who will be one of the outskirts are ready to have Grobiņa as the centre of the district. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of Grobiņš as the centre of the Southern Kurzeme Region.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U345	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U346	What is the role of local leaders? Naturally, the centre is more visible as to what to do, but I would recommend that we also apply the practices that exist in the European Parliament: one sitting in Brussels, one sitting in Strasbourg. In this case, there can be a solution that could be offered to local authorities. It'll be satisfactory for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U347	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U348	It sounds like we're on the market, now we're trading for where this local center should be. I see that some are ready to market Aizputa v Grobiņa centre, others are ready to market election results, but no one is saying how it would be more effective and more convenient for the local residents. It is not clear to me why an administrative centre in Grobina should be set up, if there is the city of Liepaja, a few kilometres away. Absolutely irrational waste of money! From Grobiņa to Liepaja you can even go on foot, there is even a bicycle path, and everyone can go there. Well, why this was a waste of money and... think only about their political ambitions to be the centre of Grobiņš, not the inhabitants of Liepaja city more convenient? Well, I think that's illogical. I call for the proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U349	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U350	I want to take a look at the previous sound. Firstly, this is indeed a very practical proposal based on the recitals. This has nothing to do with emotions, since practical research was really carried out and the appropriate facilities that were offered proved inappropriate. Secondly, the story is about effective use of the funds. In my opinion, if there is an appropriate infrastructure in the existing municipality, where there are adequate facilities and facilities to ensure the full work of the administration, and also the existing employees, who are currently working in the Liepaja border, if you can say so, and in other cities, are ready to continue working in the municipality, then why should they go to work every day in Liepaja? And there is also the question of whether, by renting premises or even buying property, or – even more dreaming castles! – when building the property, would it not be a waste measure? For this reason, I believe that it is necessary to trust the leaders of local authorities and their assessment and judgment. Once again, for convenience, in order for people to be able to receive all services, the Customer Service Centre will definitely be in Liepaja... and in a well accessible place, but it could be one office, not a whole building. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U351	Colleagues! Let us end the examination of this proposal and then decide on a break. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U352	Yeah, well, talking about this Liepaja... Either, or now in another title... in the big area, I'd like to pay attention... Those who have a little orientation in geography and are able to read the map at all... Well, then we will see that the current municipalities of Nīca and Rucava, located south of Liepaja, form a large area in this future great novel. For me, the argument that this administrative centre should be in Liepaja, not somewhere else, is that this highway, which connects Nīca and Rucava municipalities with Liepaja (and as it has always been so far, without bends and on the straightest way these large areas are taken to Liepaja)... is Liepaja–Klaipėdos highway. In this respect, it would seem to me, well, quite rightly, that if there are already enough large... Of course, there is another question about the population in this large area and how exactly it would be, say, this highway. On the contrary, one might argue that, for example, those who travel from Pāvilosta, they do... In fact, if the road is to Grobini, it would once again be beneficial for them. It seems to me that, to a large extent, habits also have great power in many matters. We all know that those who travel to receive various services and also shop in Pāvilosta, but often use this path in Liepaja through... along the hospital and enters Liepaja, not reaching Grobin Riga highways... the intersection with the Liepaja-Riga highway. Then, in fact, it's just... those on the north side have had this habit, while those on the south side have no alternatives. Yeah, there's an alternative road that's a lot... Well, what's an important curve to go to Grobini, but they have this central... Well, in fact, the state road Klaipeda–Liepāja, on which they will travel to Liepaja. It is also a habit that they will probably use this highway. Then I have the next question: if we are talking and building for the people of this major region and we did not unite it with Liepaja before, then, I allow that we will also be in this council, district council, represented people from Rucava and Nīca, and in fact they are... they will follow their previous customs and will also go to Liepaja to judge those things about the municipality, as they say, in the district council together with colleagues who will come from the north. If we in turn say, "No, it's just going to be from... Those from the north will be elected to the county council... And those of Nica and Rucava, let them... drive as you wish.” Well, that, of course, is... such a small disregard, but a position that can be taken. My position is that everyone should... If this is already a compromise, that region centre should also be a compromise place that could be... What's Liepaja... It's also logistics... based on the logistical argument and their area, which is directly... concerns this highway Liepaja–Klaipėde... I will therefore support the fact that Liepaja has a centre of this major region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U353	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U354	Members of the new Conservative Party are continuing the game called "I see here, I do not see here". Because – tell me, please, where is the logic to claim that Grobiņa is not worthy to be the development centre of the municipality just because the distance between Liepaja and Grobiņa is two kilometres. I would recommend that some UK Members take a look at the Latvian map and see, for example, the fact that Marupi, who has just been declared a city by force, does not distinguish from Riga any kilometre at all, it borders directly with Riga. If we are talking about wasting funds, then I look forward to the UK proposal to immediately add Marupe to Riga so that the funds are not wasted. The second colossal example is Ulbroka. It's a couple of miles. I think that Ulbroka, who is also going to become a city, must definitely be added to Riga as a matter of urgency. Why waste public funds? Keep going? I think that a person with geography education can make such a listing with absolute certainty. But I have a request: when you speak here with some political statements... Well, just look more widely at both the Latvian map and what will result from this reform. Look for a place for yourself and, above all, look for the logic in your statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U355	The name to Member Eric Pucen for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U356	Yeah, when... On the reform side, I also visited all these municipalities in Southern Kurzeme and talked to the local government leaders, and they have even had this debate on several occasions, where there will be an administrative centre. There is such a really bright example that a minority who considered that this administrative centre might be somewhere else has agreed that it could be in Grobina. I think that if they have been able to agree, we should support it. And in response to Mr. Butane, there is hardly a market place here. Maybe you could talk more about marketing yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U357	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U358	Mrs. Ločmele-Lunova is, of course, even in those ancient times, before the Riga City Council was dismissed, I would like the surrounding... Add these rich regions to the city of Riga, so that there would be more money that would be wasted on the Riga City Council. But those times, fortunately, could go to non-return. Talking about why in Liepaja... I draw attention to the fact that this is not only about the thoughts of the managers of certain areas, who often live, who may be a little away from real life, sitting in their warm beaks for many, many years, but also about the practical, actual habits of the population: where they go shopping, where they go to other public institutions, because let's... We need to speak openly. There are already services provided not only by local authorities and local authorities, but also by public authorities. Are there any public authorities that are now planning, for example, to provide services also in Grobino? I think most of the public... In general, these service providers of public administration institutions are likely to continue to be located directly in Liepaja city. Well, it would be quite so strange to imagine that there are only services provided by municipalities. Therefore, while still taking into account the habits of the population, I think Liepaja would be a very good centre of administrative territory for this large region as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U359	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U360	Yes, colleagues! This proposal. So I should explain what the circumstances were when I submitted a proposal, of course, to the Southern Kurzeme Region and Liepaja separately... separately for future residence. This issue of where the administrative centre will be located has already risen in second reading. In this case, at least for me, it was absolutely clear how to get to the right answer if existing regions cannot agree with each other. However, not only were the districts able to agree that it should be Grobiņa, but I also turned to the researchers of the University of Latvia, who, when analysing large data, also determined on the basis of various other criteria that Grobiņa is the economic center of this Southern Kurzeme region. These data, if you have an interest, you can, of course, get acquainted with them and find them, I don't know whether on the Saeima's website, but on VARAM's website you could do it. There are these studies. Next case - for services... the idea that a person goes to the market and then goes to the municipality for a service. It's a little bit to understand that... what are the services that a person receives and what is the case when a person goes to a municipality for a service. So we need to talk a lot more specifically. In this case, most likely... At least when talking to the current management of Grobiņa, it is clear that there will not be any new administrative buildings to be built, to work in the same way. The form of administration will clearly be such that existing buildings in other municipalities will also be involved in the administration, for example by establishing an education administration or a planning authority in a district, and thus by establishing the management of these districts. These things can, of course, be compared. We can look at Jelgava municipality, where the administrative building of Jelgava municipality is located in Jelgava city. We can also look at Rēzekne Municipality, where this situation is also present. But these regions are unfortunately not comparable in such a direct way, because simply there is no such administrative... an administrative centre with a population density as high as in the case of Liepaja in the... and not alone. Indeed, as the previous speakers have said, there are already cities, they can already be called cities. I believe that Grobiņa will grow gradually, and it has tended to grow. Despite all the challenges, Grobiņa too... The Saeima... Perhaps not this term, but one of the terms will decide on establishing the city status for Grobiņš as well. I hope this will happen in the near future. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U361	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U362	I have one good news: the UK still listens to me. And there's one bad news: the UK still has problems with cognitive abilities. Because everything I said was a concern for your party's political consistency and an attempt to address your ability to think logically. As regards the fact that the function of the municipality is indeed the provision of services to its citizens, I would like to point out that, like Grobina's residents, some services are voluntarily received in Liepaja, the same thing is happening in Mārupe, Babite, Ulbroka and so on. And it is in Riga that they use both infrastructure, kindergartens and schools. I know that a lot of Mārupe children study in Riga – Zolitūde, Imants and so on. So please be consistent and support Grobiņš as the development centre of the Southern Kurzeme Region.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U363	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U364	Thank you, colleagues, for the extensive debate, but the Commission did not support this proposal, 230.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U365	Please call me! We will vote for 230. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! ( Technical problems. (See the box below.) Just a minute! I got it. ( Milestones.) Wait! Just a minute! Tell me, has IT problems been solved? ( Milestones.) Is everything working? Is everything working? Check your vote whether you have voted! ( Milestones.) We will vote, yes. We will vote. Please call me! We will vote for 230. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! ( Milestones.) On – 52, against – 18, abstained – 17. The proposal is supported. Dear colleagues, Members of the House, Pleasure, Steel, Stein and Skride are asking to continue the sitting by 19.00 and then to announce a break by 14.00 on June 9, this year. Please activate the question about the procedure! We will vote for the Saeima sitting to continue until 19.00 and then adjournment until 14.00 on June 9, this year! Please, let's vote! On – 81, against – 3, refrains – 1. So we work until 19.00 tonight, and then we publish a break until 14.00 on June 9, this year. The name of the commission to Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U366	231. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal. It is planned to change the name of the municipality of Lower Kurzeme to ‘South Kurzeme’. I would like to point out that the Saeima has already voted on this in the draft text, replacing everywhere the name ‘Lejkurzeme’ with ‘South Kurzeme’. The Commission also supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U367	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 231. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! 85, Against – 2, Abstentions – None. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U368	232. - Mr Budrik's proposal. Associated with his earlier proposal, which was decided by the Saeima. This specific proposal provides for the creation of a large Liepaja municipality, including the city of Liepaja. The Commission rejected this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U369	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 232. - Member Budrik's proposal! Please, let's vote! No 17, no 70, no. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U370	233. – Member Ērika Pucence's proposal. It is planned to create the administrative centre of the district of Southern Kurzeme in Grobiņš, but without the existing municipalities of Aizpute and Pāvilosta. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U371	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U372	So, once again, my proposal, where I am talking about the creation of the Aizpute district together with the establishment of the Pāvilosta district. Well, putting together the economic development of these regions and the population – they are just as similar as Līvānu novads. The region is able to develop and would also be able to develop... When we travel to Paulost, we can see how Paulost has developed and how the port is developing. At the same time, people are starting to develop production facilities and agricultural businesses are starting to grow more and more. Livestock farming, metalworking. This region is potentially viable and the population is able to find a job there and create new businesses. It's very interesting that... I hope that Jānis Dombrava will also stand up for this municipality, because the Mayor of the National Alliance also believes that Aizpute would be ready to exist for his money. I invite John to join him in the outskirts of Aizpute, as he stood for Saulkrasti. I hope we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U373	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U374	Yes, Eriks Pucens said earlier that he would vote for Grobiņš as a centre, provided that he supported his proposal – specifically this proposal. How is it different to call it if it's not a market plaza? And we'll see that there's no open market in the Saeima. This proposal by Eric Pucen will not be supported either by me or, I think, by the majority. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U375	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U376	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U377	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 233. - Member Pucene's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 33, against – 50, refrained – 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U378	234. – the proposal of Member Indricsones. It is planned to create a Lower Kurzeme Municipality with an administrative centre in Grobiņš. The Commission rejected this proposal because it supported the municipality's wish to call it Southern Kurzeme Municipality. This proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U379	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U380	As I myself tabled a proposal on the renaming of the Lower Courland District to Southern Courland, but this proposal was submitted when the decision had not yet been taken, I withdrew this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U381	Thank you. The proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U382	Thank you. The next one is 235. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to build a southern Kurzeme municipality with an administrative centre in Grobina. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U383	Please call me! Let us vote in favour 235. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 48, against – 18, abstained – 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U384	236. – Member Ērika Pucence's proposal. It is planned to create the Aizputes region, which would be formed from the existing Aizputes and Pāvilosta regions. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U385	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U386	This is my proposal, which I have already spoken about a little. So, well, on your proposals... I really rely on my constituents. Talking to the relevant subjects – the Aizpute Dome and the Pavilosta Dome – I saw that such... such a region is likely to develop. I welcome the vote in favour and call for the vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U387	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U388	In the Commission, the 236th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U389	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 236. - Member Pucene's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 32, against – 52, abstained – 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U390	237. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Provision shall be made for the retention of the region of Aizputa within its existing boundaries. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U391	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 237. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! To -9, to -54, to -21 abstentions. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U392	238. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. The maintenance of the Durban area within its existing boundaries shall be provided. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U393	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U394	I heard earlier that there are several cities and no sparsely populated areas in Liepaja municipality. So, here's the municipality of Durban and one city. And it would be interesting to know whether these Members really know how many people there are and how big this city is, and whether it will be able to draw this area with its size and economic capacity. It is clear to everyone that, in fact, the city of Durban does not even meet the criteria for city status, it is simply historically so that Durban is of city status. Consequently, given that there is neither a sufficient population nor a sufficiently large economic tow, I call for this proposal to be rejected for the establishment of a separate Durban area.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U395	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U396	The Commission did not support the 238th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U397	Please call me! We will vote for 238. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 10, against – 57, abstained – 20. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U398	Proposal 23...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-03-PT13-2089-U399	Wait, wait, wait! Are there any technical problems? It's okay. Dear colleagues, So we agreed at 19.00 a.m. on the interruption until June 9, this year at 14 a.m. to 14.00 a.m. Members are currently registered. It was a success. Thank you for your work today. Interruption until 2 p.m. on June 9, this year. ( Interruption)
