ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please take your seats in the Chamber. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official We are continuing the debate on proposal 21. The floor will be discussed by Member Viktor Valainius. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U2	Good morning, colleagues! Let's keep going. This proposal differs from the previous proposal. The main difference is on the question of how we value science. Science in Latvia and science in the context of this reform. At this point in time, I think it is clear that this reform is probably... and that, I think, is a complete fact: it is prepared in the office of the Minister. The question is how much this reform proposal has listened to scientists. I prepared this proposal together with two three professors, one economic doctor on spatial planning issues. And this is an offer for a form of government. The question is more about why it wasn't at all... During committee sittings, no... Scientists were not invited at any time to discuss forms of administration. If we're talking to... and, in a way, Mr. Kazinovsky agrees... for people who have studied these issues - at the level of research - all scientists, as one, think that this reform... it must not remain a model of single-level governance. And here's a proposal to outline how the form of administration could be right. And in a way, this proposal follows a number of regional conferences, several... Also the issue discussed by many rectors at universities... And, in my view, this would be the right approach to making such reforms by listening to scientists. Everyone likes to talk about science so much, but when scientists come with their proposals, they are not heard at all. And unfortunately, in the Commission, we heard scientists only at my invitation and very fragmented, and there was no opportunity to speak about the reform at all. Colleagues! I would call for this proposal to be supported. This is based on any meaningful proposal, which, unfortunately, had no time in the Commission to examine anyone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U3	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Are Members against the unification of time? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: ‘Yes!’ ; “No!” ) Is it not? And? And the objections. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 11, abstaining. So... there is no quorum. There's no quorum. No decision has been taken. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “No quorum!” ) There is no quorum. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “No quorum!” ; dep. A. Neighbours: All things, go away!” ) No, registered... Once again... Please call again! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Interface: “There is no quorum! ” ) There is no quorum. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “No quorum!” ) Interruption... break to 15, 10 minutes. Interruption, 10 minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U4	Dear colleagues, The break is over. The debating Member, Aldis Gobzems, is asking for the time of his debate to be combined. Please call me! ( Interface: “Let’s agree! ”) ) Do we agree? Let's go! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Do not mind!” ) Do not mind. All right, time is combined. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U5	So, dear colleagues, good morning! You know I can be sharp and I can be calm. It'll be quiet this time. How would I carry out administrative territorial reform? I would do it this way. Firstly, the public would be told that reform is needed now. The Estonians count seven times and then cut off. You're gonna cut it off and then set it off. Only in Latvia is measured, measured and then put into your pocket. And I'd say that it won't happen anymore. Secondly, this reform affects fate, so it must not be butaphoria. The relocation of borders does not in itself alter what needs to be done and what is important. Thirdly, the reform must have the effect of halving the so-called civil service. They are not only Members; they are also various services whose only purpose is to prevent businesses from operating in municipalities. You cannot, for example, be half of Toronto in the Suncrackers (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) The number of members of the city, that's too much. Fourthly, I would make two-level municipalities, but that does not mean that there would be more bureaucracy. So I would create a state level responsible for education, development of important national infrastructures, health care and so on. We can, of course, discuss what it is called - the counties or something else. But that would be the level of the country. And I'd make a second... this basic level, economic... and the level of preservation of the cultural heritage, so as to know each house and every ome personally in each parish, in each district. Fifthly, I would reform, at the same time harmonising the existing approximately 35 cards, which reflect the various responsibilities involved. Namely, at the moment, the territorial division of the state among fire-fighters, rapid medical assistance, the police and so on... each actually has its own and even often different. And that's absurd. Sixthly, I wouldn't have Rēzekne bigger than Jelgava. Yes, you can discuss whether to add all the regions around them to the major cities, and I would add it. The bigger the areas, the better. This means more money. This means, for example, building rental houses like Valmiera, so that citizens can buy them out in time. More people in one municipality mean more money for these people. Seventhly, I would add Valka to Smiltene or Valmiera. In principle, it doesn't matter, but it would be right. I would not make Saulkrasti as a separate region; it would be logical to add it to the Adažai. The same with Garkalni - not to add it as one of the richest municipalities to Ulbroka, but vice versa. Or discuss the merger of Garkalne with Ažiai. But it's just a technical issue. I wouldn't have the frogs in Vidzeme. Eight, if I were to reform, I would come to the Saeima to defend myself and explain every point in the reform - because this reform is decisive for many in Latvia! - and not our land with a hump. And I wouldn't do it like Minister Puce, who doesn't come; I wouldn't do it like the Prime Minister, who doesn't come; I wouldn't do it like the head of the commission responsible, who doesn't come and explain it. I would come and explain every point. Nine times, I would never be small in my wishes, for those desires to hate someone I would stand over, because my success would be a rich country, not that I would be a party, sorry, knocked out in a municipality, as currently with Jelgava and Ventspils. Ten times, I would declare Latgale a tax-free zone. Maybe not from all but part of it. I wouldn't act like an exell. It is clear that such action would revitalise what we are losing. That would be my response to the administrative territorial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U6	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U7	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to quote something from the point of view of the administrative territories and the proposal. ‘ The fragmentation of municipal administration reinforces territorial disparities and negative socio-economic trends. There are 110 local authorities in Latvia with an average population of 8 460, while almost 80 percent of them have a population of less than 8 000. Without the reform, the average population in the municipality is projected to fall to 7 200 by 2040. Small municipalities usually offer poorer employment opportunities and limited access to public services, the administration spends more per capita and their ability to invest in economic development is very limited. In addition, the income of small municipalities from taxes per person is 10-20 percent lower than that of large municipalities. It is also more difficult for small municipalities to attract and retain highly qualified staff. Overall, this leads to situations where smaller municipalities have difficulties in becoming cost-effective, ensuring high-quality public services, especially in the areas of health and education, and investing in economic development. Given current negative demographic trends, major administrative and social expenditure will require an increasing share of municipal budgets. In view of the lack of employment opportunities and availability of services, the population of these regions that are lagging behind is emigrating to a greater extent, looking for better prospects elsewhere." This quote comes from the European Commission's report, this year's semester presented to the European Affairs Commission this morning, and the European Commission's representatives stressed that we must not delay the implementation of administrative territorial reform and decision-making. At the same time, representatives of the European Commission stressed that the future for development lies in functional areas, i.e. urban-rural cooperation. This is the model that the panel has proposed here today for decision. Colleagues, let's hold on to this! Let's go!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U8	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U9	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I can agree with everything my colleague, Arthur Tom Pleys, has said, but given that we are currently debating proposal 21, the proposal by Viktor Valaiņš, I have to reflect to some extent on what Mr Valaiņš has said. He said that in order to be able to evaluate his proposal, scientists had to be consulted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “With whom?” ) Mr Valaiņš, we have consulted scientists in the context of regional reform, but I just have to say to you: while the Greens/Farmers Union was in power and did not finance science, some scientists died and some left Latvia. So there was not much to consult. (Applause) That's why! - I would like to make a request to you, Mr. Valaiņš... Please, think about what you are talking about before you make a statement of criticism. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U10	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U11	Dear colleagues, I have just heard from the head of the commission responsible, Arthur (Interface: “Toma!” ) Thomas (Interface: “Pleasure!” ) such You said that, yes, with fragmented regions, if we do not reduce regional fragmentation (Interdependence.) ... That's it! Someone still knows Russian, yes. Feldman: “ATP? What did you say there?” ), but with hearing - with hearing! - there are problems. So, with fragmented regions, people will continue to leave. You think that your ATR will stop this population decline. You really think. Forgive me is an absolute fool. People leave the country because in other countries such as Germany, Sweden, Ireland, the level of pay is several times higher than in Latvia. And no ATR will change it. You can turn that map as far as you want, but this will not change the differences in the level of pay. And the other reason they're driving from their regions to Riga is because the pay gap even within our country, for example, between Latgale and Riga, is also... Well, maybe it could be almost twice... And from the fact that you're going to draw that map, it won't change in any way. Therefore, please stop producing such foolishness that this reform will in some way stop people leaving Latvia or regions of Latvia. There will be no such effect on this reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U12	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U13	Good morning! I didn't want to take a long time this morning, but... on the statement of Mr Ples programme... Point-to-point. On the reform. First. If we do not implement the reform, the demographic situation in Latvia will get worse. Mr. Plies, in some settlement your ministry, VARAM, planned... an increase in the population's largest population? Isn't that Valka? Within 10 years, 31 percent of the population has been lost. Even bigger than Latgale areas... Why? Is it because there are too few births or too many deaths? No, no! Just close is Valga, which offers better life, better services for our citizens. Is this the problem of reform? It is a country's problem; it is a country's economic policy problem. Could we not increase birth rate and reduce mortality by other methods than ATR? Please tell me what is the link between education and health system reforms and administrative territorial reform? Will the quality of hospitals or the services they provide increase if we transform the smaller regions? Tell me, please, are you on the roads? - Will ATR be improved in our fields? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldmans: “Dependence from the Municipality!” ) Here we promise 300 million ways to improve, if implemented. I asked how many kilometres of the road would be repaired for this money. I was told: “800 kilometres.” If you split 800 kilometers to 40 municipalities (Intersense). , it happens that in each municipality on average it is possible to repair a road of 20 kilometres. Tell us about these people who vote for you in Kurzeme, Vidzeme, Zemgale and Latgale. And the last one. ( Internouncing call.) There was no talk yet (The Hall of Noise.) ... Could you please ensure the order in the room? The last thing that has not been said here is the effect of the outskirts. This is the effect that this reform could have on if it were not implemented correctly. This means that those who still live in small villages will move closer to development centres and we will remain healthy areas, where there will really be no more people, because there will only be forests and meadows. ( The transcripts are: “Time! Time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U14	Time! Time! Mrs Luņova, your speaking time is over! Time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U15	If you have such a vision of Latvia, please vote in favour of this ATR!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U16	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U17	Mr Bondara could already be ashamed to say about Latvian science. In Latvia, however, there are scientists who have really studied and are still studying regional reform. Your understanding of science, about the economy, is evidenced by the fact that you granted loans in the Latvian Krajbanka, under which you left your signature, Mr Bondara. Be ashamed! And Mr Plesh, when you talk about regional reform, you should know, as the head of the Commission, that this is an administrative territorial reform that you have now proposed to Members to take decisions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U18	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U19	Dear colleagues, Today's speeches begin with visions such as each Member sees the development of a country after this ATR has been implemented. Then, I must say, the unwitting will to compare with the previous administrative territorial reform - what was at that time, what was not at that time and what should be. Last time, in 2009, in addition to the administrative territorial reform project, a number of measures were envisaged to support the newly created areas. One of them was a road arrangement programme (for example, from the centre of each parish to the centre of the district to create a solid pavement road). The next was - for every parish to stimulate, there were 200,000 lats in funding in addition as an incentive for them to take this too. A lot has been done with these money. Then there were a number of measures in this programming period. For example, the Latgale planning region was allocated EUR 52 million for business development. This project, which covers a total of 14 sub-projects across Latgale, has already created more than 800 jobs. Now, compared to this, what is envisaged at the time of implementing this reform? So far, I can't hear it. Because if we want to make a declaration, there is no problem. But everything must be the basis. The municipality can be merged. But where is man left? The municipality is no longer a company that will offer a particular person a job. The municipality provides services. Man, the citizen receives these services. If its municipality is away from the population, on what account? For that person, the service stays further, becomes more expensive. You have to understand that! People worry about it in rural areas. The schools are moving away, the hospital service is moving away, but is it planned, let's say, to improve the means to get to this person's service? No, I'm sorry. So I think again... these regional-related proposals - these were those equalising proposals. If there are administrative regions, all these problems can be addressed. If it's not... I cannot support such a reform if there are no administrative regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U20	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U21	Dear colleagues, I would like to introduce some clarity. Mr Pleska has just mentioned the report by the representative of the European Commission on Latvia and the fact that they are in favour of carrying out the reform as soon as possible. Dear colleagues from the coalition! It really was a very important sitting in the Committee on European Affairs this morning, but it was a very short sitting because you planned the Saeima sitting this morning at 10 a.m. And now you come here and say that it is very important to listen to and discuss with the representatives of the European Commission. What kind of discussion was possible within 15 minutes, Mr. Ples? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geoid: “On the proposal!” ) It is you and all the others who are responsible for the... You just don't know how to plan the Saeima's work! Because it's yours already... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Kols: “Speak about the proposal!” ) it is already your... It is your job, you are not going to plan it so that you can listen to and debate it properly with the representatives of the European Commission, get the necessary information and give them the necessary information, and then come to the Saeima sitting (I do not know how many - maybe twelve or one - and continue with the reform. No, it was just that everybody had to drive away and run, because you didn't even have the quorum at the Saeima sitting this morning. You're just, well, so bad planners! Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U22	Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U23	Good morning, colleagues! The proposal. This would be a very good and understandable proposal if only conceptually in advance before the reform... and this draft law... discussed and if it was clear... Because we now have large, economically strong and elected districts. Perhaps we will have elected parishes, and now we are still talking about unknown regions or counties. This could be a very good and understandable administrative breakdown (directly wording in the draft law) provided that functions are arranged between levels, that public administration functions are arranged and that there is clarity about how all these levels are elected and managed. We are already experiencing absolute confusion even on the same level; by abandoning the criteria, we create very different and sometimes incomparable and incomprehensible municipalities of the same level. Once again, I would like to repeat that this would really be a very well-defined proposal if it were to start a reform rather than get stuck somewhere in the middle. But perhaps if we continue to work seriously on the reform, we will have to come back to this wording. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunov.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U24	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U25	Good morning! Three things. First. When it comes to the need for reform, the representatives of the European Commission have hardly expressed their support for the draft that we are discussing today. This was not the case, and it will not happen in the near future. Second. We are once again beginning to talk about everything, but not about this proposed option. Everyone knows, we do not need to convince anyone else that reforms are necessary, but smart reforms. This is also the case with this tabled proposal, because we have now removed several parts from the context of the reform and are trying to put it all into a single bag, to connect it into a single design. This work had to be done before we started discussions on the draft law. And the third. Very, very long ago, the philosopher Kampanella, who wrote a wonderful book entitled “The City of the Sun, ” lived. The city of the sun - it was utopia. But we are very often in this kind of utopia when we deal with legislative matters. Perhaps we will return to our sinful lowland! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U26	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U27	Colleagues! We are so much told here that the European Commission is so demanding and recommending this regional reform. But if we look at this year's report... Chapter Three - Reform priorities... Regional reform is not even mentioned here. Public finances and taxation, financial sector, labour market, education, social policy, competitiveness, investment, environmental sustainability... Where is regional reform as a priority for reform? You made some false news, Mr. Plesh. The only place from which you have taken it is, so to speak, box, box... It is from the European Commission... in the language of the official may be translated so that if they did not really believe it was necessary, but someone very insists, they did include it. Where is it written in the official language that this reform could contribute to regional development? ‘ Could’ mean that we really... doubt that this will be the case, but we do not want to rule out one hundred percent of this possibility.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U28	Mr. Dombrovskis! Time! Your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U29	False news!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U30	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U31	I'll start with the proposal I made yesterday night, maybe it's a night off. I call once again for the agenda to be changed and for us first to see the 70th proposal, which deals with the second level, to understand whether we have it or not, and then to debate it further, because now... now this debate until it is decided... is about to have a debate about whether we're going to drink some sugar or whether we're going to drink some tea with a jam right now. A very meaningful debate. Interesting in a way, of course, but completely useless. As far as the European Commission is concerned - which the European Commission... supports Latvia's regional reform, administrative territoriality? It's just funny. Well, really! What do they support? ( Interface: “With money! ” ) The zeroed level? One-level municipalities? Two-level municipalities or three that we haven't decided, Mr. Ples? We haven't decided how you know. What does the European Commission support? The fact that Jelgava is smaller than Rēzekne? Did you ask for support? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: Yes! Yes!’ ) How many levels do they support? We do not even know how much we will have, but the European Commission is already in favour. Science fiction! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U32	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U33	Good morning, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! At the moment, I would really agree with Digim Schmidt. I would call for the 70th proposal to be examined, because the 70th proposal is the following (I will read): for the exercise of the common functions of state and local authorities, administrative regions are created whose status and conditions of operation are governed by a separate law. About this bill, in separate, we already have four or five sub-committee meetings for the development of the municipal system... we have talked to the ministries about the possible transfer of functions to the regional level, made up of both the possible public administration and elected municipal Members or Chairs. We are also talking about certain functions that could perhaps be transferred from the first level that is currently being imposed, so from the county to the regional level, because there are indeed many functions that could be dealt with at regional level, starting with civil protection commissions - dealing with unforeseen events and identifying emergencies, as well as public transport... perhaps vocational education, local... regional road management and many other things that could be looked at at at regional level. And we have also agreed, indeed, now in the sub-committee that we are trying to build regional level on the existing five planning regions, and now we are also at these sub-committee meetings... Planning regions are always present - all five are invited; their representatives listen, follow, express their thoughts and opinions. I... if it is possible, I would call for the 70th proposal to be examined and then proceed... See others. But before, in addition to what Mr Kazinovsky said about the reform in 2009... not so shiny and very well. Yeah, really 200,000 for every parish that joined together was given, but the roads to... from the centre of the municipality to each parish, of course, were not asphalted. Pupil buses were awarded, yes, additional grants. For this reform... as far as we know, negotiations have now been launched on this... 300 million really diverted... whether it will be 2021, 2022 or 2023... or even three years... First and foremost, road infrastructure (Interdependence.) and many other things that will be important for new regions. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U34	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U35	Thank you, Mr Adamovich, because here the basic words were "likely" and "may be". In order to avoid this situation that we are currently making a new map of Latvia, it was necessary to start with it - first of all decide what administrative regions will be where it will be located. I will remind you that currently the planning region Riga starts from Talsi and ends around the border of Estonia. If our aim is to level up the economic development of the regions... What are we talking about? Mr Kazinovsky pointed out hundreds of times that GDP per capita in Riga is at European level, and the other regions are lower. No, we will leave the planning regions in Riga the same way as we are today, and we will fight for regional alignment. Well, there was a story about it that we would support the reform if it were created correctly, logically and with the aim really (Interim: “Time!” ) level up regional development. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucens: “Where is the proposal?” ) It is time for you to close your mouth. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U36	Mrs. Lochmele, time. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U37	Dear President, Honourable Members! Indeed, Mr. Smith correctly observed that everyone understands the second level differently. For example, in the proposal of the National Alliance, regions are called "circles"... It wasn't the idea that it was the second level... Part of this is of the opinion that this is the second level, and I understand that Mr Valaiņš had also thought so at the time of the proposal. But in principle both this and... I think it's even better... Next, 22, would be acceptable if we agreed. We have not done this for this time, but for the third reading we can agree that the county is simply the same region, just normal. What is a normal region? I'll tell you. It is a non-subsidised region, where there is a single national Gymnasium; a region where secondary school is not half-empty; a region where half-empty buses do not travel twice a week; a region where there is a hospital where expensive facilities are not operating at a third load but at full-time. According to my calculations, the best case in Latvia could be 12 to 15. I will name two examples: that is Talsu, with four cities that function, and Rēzekne, where parish associations. So if we call a neat district a county that is first level (and I agree that the second level could be these regions in the future), then practically the whole county or region would work. Now, now, forgive me, it's nothing more than a community of parishes. One example is the novads of Zilupes. There were six seven thousand in the Parish... Now it's in the whole district with five parishes of about three thousand, and it's more than three... So the municipality is half of the parish. If we had decided that these counties were large, then the so-called municipalities, or parish associations, could fit into this county without problems. They should not be cut further, and should not be turned away from one another and shifted to another. They could agree with each other, but that is the third point of reading. I think that, for the third reading, their proposal can be put forward; at the moment, there is no point in supporting it. Because it really is that some think it's the second... the maakond... others think it's the first level... i.e. not the second level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U38	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U39	Looks like he doesn't understand. Again Article 3. Specifically referred to in Article 3 of this Law, which includes administrative territories. So there's some kind of neighbourhoods for big cities now... and regions... Will there be or will there be no? I do not object to the fact that Article 70 could look at administrative regions... but they must be designated as administrative areas as referred to in Article 3. Just like with the city of Ventspils and Jelgava. Either it is, or it isn't... or it's going to be somewhere in a region... Jelgava. The same applies to administrative regions. I call for the vote, however. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U40	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U41	Thank you, Mr. Adamovich. If we want - and I see that its desire to become, as we say - to get to a constructive debate and to deal with it, then, in my opinion, the order would be that we should first have to discuss and decide whether we have an administrative division of one or two levels. When we vote for it in an ideal way, then there is the second question: what functions we see in the second level. We agree on the functions. But the third step - when we have agreed on the functions, we will understand how high the second level is, whether they are regions, or maybe it's around the cities of the republic... When we decide on this, we will have to think about the source of funding, the understanding of cash flows. And then we'll get to the first level. It would be logical for us to get to the result, and then the questions - which are a county, what is called... and that's what. It should start with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U42	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U43	Hello, colleagues! I sincerely wish all of us today a productive, constructive working day and hope that we will succeed today. I see that we have a lot to discuss, even names we've been talking about here for a while. Just what should be called. Here we already have the information that the coalition has the idea of shortening the duration of the debate even further. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucce: “To what?” ; citation: “Good proposal!” ) It is, of course, your democratic right to propose and implement such a proposal. Our democratic right, on the other hand, is to act in such a way that we can ensure this debate here, so that it is long enough, sufficiently full. And the attempts that I now hear about - going again from the coalition to deconstructive action - will receive a proper response from the opposition. Therefore, colleagues, my proposal: today we are focusing on constructive work! If you really are so important to keep the following discussion format - three plus one minute - we can stay with it (interfaces: “On the proposal!” ) and close at 5 a.m. If we can agree on this, we are working constructively. If you want to work until night and even shorten... and shorten the time of the debate, will be quite the opposite, the submissions have already been prepared. Colleagues, this is simply a friendly offer (Interface: “Do not be friendly to us!” ) to work constructively today, all of it will benefit. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Ivar, do not vote!” ) Thank you. Thank you for your understanding, I hope.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U44	I closed the debate. Is there a comment from the Commission? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U45	The 21st proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņa was not supported by the Commission following discussions. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U46	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 53, for - 1. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U47	Proposal 22 also comes from Mr Valaiņa, a Member who intends to complement the draft law with a definition of counties. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U48	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U49	With this proposal, I propose establishing a definition of counties, a specific breakdown. Thus, the county would be a specific, defined territory; the district centre would be determined by the Saeima by its decision, and the administrative territories included in the county, which would now be attached to this draft law. And set out also the procedure by which the districts can be modified. Why do I, my colleagues, insist so much and I will probably not end the debate on this form of administration? Yeah... It has just been very brightly marked by a Member, Adamovich. He mentioned two things. Civil protection, which is already under way at the level of cooperation areas... There's nothing new. And then there are big functions. And one of the biggest functions is public transport, which you mentioned... that could be transferred to this second level of governance. But you have not mentioned the fact that the Ministry of Transport has already concluded the procurement of public transport to the next almost... I think by 2029. And I'd believe that... if this... The most sensible thing at the moment would be simply to stop this procurement while there is this reform. But there is no indication that anyone would be willing to do so. And that's why everybody here says there's going to be some second level. At the second level, specific functions will have to be transferred. What you mentioned about these here... the work of sub-committees, you can... probably agree, I'm also working on this sub-committee, Mr. Kazinovsky is working on this sub-committee... Members explain more to the ministries, which is the second level, which we are looking for at all. And I have no indication that at the moment the government report, which could be some time... that could give some real answer that functions could be transferred. If we're talking about the big functions that are, well, so fundamental... and public transport is one of the greatest functions that could be transferred... there it is now the transfer - it is such a deception of the whole of society that something like that could be transferred. It's simply impossible! This function is outside until 2029. What, then, is left for us? We have an educational function, where there are hardly any new municipalities... who will be willing to return the educational function to some other level or below. And that was also why the 2009 reform did not lead to the creation of counties. Because the municipalities to be newly created were those who were not prepared to give out any of the functions entrusted to them. And now, if you do it, it must be done in complexes right away, not by some law then. This should be already in this - the basic law. And I will talk about this, my fellow Members, and I will try to convince you, however, that at least this debate will continue at third reading. I am absolutely sure that will happen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U50	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U51	Dear Latvian society and Riga residents in particular! This proposal is indeed very important, especially on public transport, and for this reason I would like to draw the attention of the Rigaers to it. Rīdzinieki, you are approaching the elections and you will see which of the mayor's candidates are ready for every question and who... two - Yuszs and Staķis... they have no vision at all, although this is also a question of how Riga will provide public transport, how it will cooperate with neighbouring municipalities. And Victor Valainis is objectively my competitor... political. But let us be honest, the only candidate for the position of Mayor of Riga, who is prepared for each question by nature and who has a constructive opinion on each issue, is Viktors Valainis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “He will vote for the Staci!” ) Therefore, dear Rigans, wish to remember it! When it comes to public transport, what it will be after the reform, remember that neither mayor Staķis, who is on posters, nor Jurash, who also promises to know nothing... They do not come and talk about it, although it is one of the most important issues in people's daily lives - how public transport will be organised, how public transport will be organised within the new territory, as the head of a particular municipality will do. It is clear that these mayors have no understanding at all of how the municipality operates. Juss sits with a bent head. That's it! He has no idea. The only one... That's why I want to... and I will always defend whatever the party from which the political groups... As I said yesterday about Mr Kazinovsky, who came from the KP with a logical, coherent proposal and justified it, and commended the KPP Member, although I usually find myself quite hard... I was quite critical. I'll always do that. Dear Rigaers! I call on you not to focus on those sweet millions of advertising campaigns that do not have any content. Appreciate human competence, value it! Why am I saying that? Because I too... I agree... In principle, every proposal could agree with what Viktor Valainis says. He has already, in substance, made this proposal. It is only possible to supplement questions relating to public... Like in this case... public transport. How will this be ensured? Mayor, where are you? You can only record ads for money, where are you lying to people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U52	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U53	Good morning, dear colleagues! Victor's really done cool. But it's about the proposal. Once again, I would like to give an argument as to why the second level municipalities (in this case referred to as counties) would be necessary. I once again look at the municipal profiles prepared by VARAM, as they are now before the reform, and what they will be after the reform. And two good examples are Jelgava, which is now the center of economic development, even beyond the borders of the region, and Smilten. After the addition of Ozolnieki Municipality and Jelgava Municipality to Jelgava VARAM plans that by 2030 the population in this new municipality will decrease by 10 percent. Smiltene is also our beautiful regional development story. Indeed, with all due respect for the head of the municipality, how he managed to establish it as such a business centre! After adding Ape and Rauna to Smiltene... By 2030, the population will fall by a further 11 percent according to the VARAM. This shows that the new municipalities will not be sufficiently social, economically strong and will not be able to ensure that the population in the regions does not fall. For this reason, larger units should be created that can plan a common infrastructure that can jointly plan business support services, which can also align its services with the mapping of state institutions, because not only have we mentioned here that there are 30 different maps for state institutions - CFLA, State Revenue Service, State Employment Agency, Police, Disease Prevention and Control Centre and others. And the question to the ministry, when the state aligns itself with the provision of its services to local government residents, so that when they go to their new centre, they could really count on receiving all the public services there in one place, the answer was not when, but... The answer was: “You know, a lot can already be done electronically.” Well, that's not the answer in substance, because practically a lot of things can still not be resolved electronically in another 10 years' time. So these are things that can and must be solved even more... At the level if we really want administrative territorial reform to be one that strengthens local authorities in the regions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U54	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U55	Colleagues! I just wanted to draw attention once again to this proposal... in particular on good legislative practice. If you like to talk about the need to be well-designed by law, then this whole table... And what's going to happen in the future... If I vote as the commission has decided to vote, in principle, the commission will... And, uh... minus... one to one... PROMOTING the offer without any significant change. This is the second day we are talking about level management. In my view, it would be best if it had already been resolved at second reading, and that would be a good legislative practice. On the third reading on such important things, on the creation of these concepts, today and also yesterday in principle were offered all day long two different concepts - one down, one up. And the Saeima has not presented its version of how the commission should work for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U56	Mr. Valains! Time! Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U57	Dear colleagues, We have developed a very interesting putra from all the debates that are now taking place. On the one hand, we are talking about the specific draft law that has been tabled for the second reading, we are talking about concrete proposals, but on the other hand, during the debate we are going back to zero all the time, to the concept. You have to be the second level, you don't have to be the second level? To be honest, the 70th proposal drafted by the Commission is not the solution for the second reading, because there is no answer to the main question - what is this structure here. So today... As regards Mr Valaiņa's specific proposal, it has been drawn up with all the requirements. This is the case with the proposals made at second reading. It is accurate, concrete and really answers the question. But in this case again we return to the fact that the drafters of the law, in this case we can, have not completely formulated their vision - as they see administrative territorial reform as a whole, in the complex. It is not about drawing a separate card, but, in principle, how the new governance model in Latvia will look like. Here is the problem that appears and that will continue... will also be present during the next debate. As far as Mr Valaiņa's proposal is concerned, naturally, it should be incorporated and, at the same time, referred to in Article 3... proposal, where the name is... Named all the administrative breakdown. In that case, it is in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U58	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U59	Dear President, Dear colleagues, As I said yesterday, Latvia needs, let us say, the creation of second-level municipalities, as in Sweden, Finland and the other Nordic countries. But I have a question: where is the demand for ATR at all? Where are the people who demand from the Saeima that we unite regions and bring in a new plan? During this term, we saw only three major protests on the streets. They were medical protests, they were Russian school defenders' protests, and they were yesterday people who were not satisfied with ATR. Forgive me, but where are the people who have gathered to the municipalities and demand that we add Seda to Strenchi? No, it's not! No man needs such a reform from you. But where did ATR come from? What is the source of this reform? I think there's liberal tuckism here. You are people who are inspired by ideological postulates, not by reality. There's someone who works at the card publishing house. A big card... player... And once this economic geographer reveals the map. And he thinks that there are too many municipalities in Latvia and that it is necessary to combine them, integrate them and so on. We all know that one person specifically created this nightmare a few years ago, and you are now turning to this straw to do something for the country. I'm sorry, but it's just stupid tuckism that has no connection with reality. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “You need to read the books and understand something!” ) Dear colleagues! The situation is as follows: we have a new head of commission. He's as old as my older son. And I hope that Mr Pleis will have the opportunity to see in 20 years' time how many people live in each reformed region. And I have an offer: now take the envelope and put it in numbers, close it, and after 20 years open it. You will be very surprised. So, Mr. Plesh, make the envelope! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U60	I closed the debate. Is there anything to say on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U61	Yeah. Colleagues. The proposal. Even after discussions on this proposal by Mr Valaiņa, which also... Well, with regard to... in the context of other proposals... they were conceptually submitted on their part. Following discussions, this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U62	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U63	The proposal 23 comes from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union and lays down the principles for determining the cities of the Republic. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U64	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U65	Yeah... I hope that Mr Kučinski will also appear at some point and come to the debate on this, as he has also tabled a separate proposal in this regard. But in this case, I would like to ask my colleagues: what more by population - Rezekne or Jelgava? The current version, which you yourself have supported, says that Rēzekne is bigger. Is that objective or not? I do not think so. At the moment, in the course of the examination of the draft law, we have an annotation containing criteria, some criteria. In the case of the cities of the republic, there is nothing like that, but a list of which are and which are not cities of the republic. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Iesalnieks: “There are no cities of the Republic!” ) All the big cities... This proposed version. This is a version that sets out some criteria so that it is not just a matter of political decision, whether or not it will be... You see for yourself how foolish the situation is, by its very nature, if there are no such criteria. As a Member, it is not possible for me to have any material impact on these criteria at all, because they are only annotated. Center for development, something else. Well... The centre of development is also located in these cities, which are set up by county. However, with this proposal, if we were to support it, we would come to some clear criteria and also have the opportunity to influence these criteria through our proposals. At the moment, the discussion about removing the criteria outside began after... including from the Saeima Legal Bureau... after we had already voted at first reading in the committee. If it had happened before, we could still discuss the change of annotation, but it happened afterwards. And at the moment, this stupid situation is coming - it is supported, and then it is taken out of the criteria, and there is no more to talk about. Therefore, colleagues, I would call for a debate, but I have called on colleagues in the Commission on several occasions to agree together on the criteria on which we will assess the municipalities as such, so that at least the municipalities signal how we will assess them. There is no such common criterion; there is only a political one. On the basis of the political criterion, we can make gross mistakes. Like Rēzekne and Jelgava... Now we have said that Rēzekne is big and Jelgava is... Jelgava. Yeah, okay. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U66	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U67	Good morning, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Well, Jelgava is Jelgava, of course Viktor! Jelgava will remain Jelgava, but it seems that it also shows quite clearly what... what we have for each ATR. In mine and our “Development/About!” , in the sense of this reform, or ATR, is about... Similar as in Article 2 of the Satversme... Finally, the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia would operate and sovereign power in Latvia would belong to the people of Latvia and not to municipalities. Because now, in fact, we, colleagues, have been living for decades in the feudal republic of local governments in Latvia, where local governments are fragmented, small, setting the agenda and it is more important than residents. And it sounds like Mr. Valaiņa ATR is about how to keep these fortifications, the last big fortifications - Ventspils Castle and Jelgava Castle - to preserve feudal walls. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “What about Liepaja? Tell me!” ) This proposal, as I read it, is essentially about strengthening the positions of these cities in the Republic, defining what they are, protecting them from cooperation with other territories, with functional territories around them. In our eyes, it is not even so crucial that the nominal borders of the district are the city plus rural territory or together, it is important for cooperation, services for citizens, it is important for public transport, waste management and other things to function smoothly, at reasonable prices, in a comfortable way. ( Milestones.) That's why I'm calling... I call on you to vote in favour of cooperation, and I call for you to talk about it (The Room for Noise.) ... not by lying that the funds will not be available, but, on the contrary, by taking into account that the funds are intended for functional areas in the future and not within the formal boundaries of the municipality. So that I call for real reform, go ahead and understand. I also want to say to Dana Reizniece-Ozola: please do not deceive people. This reform, of course, cannot prevent their policies from moving away from remote rural areas to cities at once. Following this policy, which you have pursued for 25 years... How could it be prevented one day? Of course, there is no such expectation. We need to slow down people's departure, slow down rural emptying, increasing development opportunities. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant: “What is happening now? Do you understand?” ) The public service is the next wave behind the decision of the county borders, let us talk about funding models, let us talk about digital services, let us talk about how to look at the equalisation model, and so on. So I'm calling you to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U68	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U69	I'm inspired. To be honest, I haven't heard such a bright ideological talk about how good it will be. This is not about it... Neither for transportation, nor for waste, where you are all very big specialists. It's about... on the criteria that determine... at the existing system and structure... how to determine what are the cities, as we have all defined now, or the cities of republic importance. Nothing except clear criteria on which to work, specifying them to the third reading... Undoubtedly, we can talk about this, but here is the main idea, not about how to stop the people leaving Latvia, but... the idea is to give - to the existing system - certain criteria. If this is not understandable (and here you forgive me), well, you should resume the course on ATR. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U70	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U71	Dear colleagues, You know, I think it's very good that we have such an atmosphere of painful emotions today, its long debate, that... Well, quite a lot of things come out, and I think it's good. I think it really needs to be... Well, to make sure it doesn't stay inside. For what have we just heard? That this reform is actually... but the real problem with municipalities is that municipalities are the main reason for this... ( Independence: “Delete! Yes - eliminate it!” ) our country is lagging behind, underdevelopment and all that bad. Let's think about it now. Well, well, let's assume that you think that all evil is local government. Well, can its municipalities in general, yes, eliminate as such. And then you, the honourable coalition, will be responsible for absolutely everything. You think, you can't deal with the country, and you can't deal with the municipalities too, if you'll be responsible for this too, for the canalisation there... Wear and so on. So... I think you really don't need that, do you? So maybe it's not about those municipalities, but it's such a political jealousy. D. Subsistence and deposit A. Gaidan's intermediate names.) that they elect some other people, not from your party, right? Well, how many municipal leaders from Development/About! , from BIP, CPV LV and so on? Is that simply a political jealousy, if? But think – the same people, the citizens of Latvia, elected you and those municipal leaders, and you thought that when they elected you, they did everything right, but when the same people elected the municipal leaders, they changed something... The order of speed has reached some sort of... first, either back... Something like that. And then they suddenly lose their consciousness and elect some totally wrong people. You wanna say that? And then let's go. Do you think seriously, then, that through this regional reform, or something else, you will get these people's trust, love? That there will finally be reform and everything, and those people in the regions instead of voting for the Greens/Farmers' Union or anyone... suddenly: “A! Development/About!” Well, of course! ( Internouncing call.) Do you really think so? Because what you're saying... it looks like... yes, that's exactly what you think. Well, then you're going to be quite disappointed, colleagues. But continue, please! I think to continue in such an atmosphere... it's really... Those things have to be talked about. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U72	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U73	Mr. Pavilut! Your rhetoric would be reasonable if, at second reading, we did not see a map, where we look like the last fortress, not Jelgava and Ventspils, but Liepaja. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant intermediates.) As with the idea that Liepaja would add a functional territory, which is currently being separated as the region of Lejaskurzeme, where all the regions, which will then be the centre of development for them - Aizpute, Priekule, Grobiņa or Nieca, could not be agreed. No, of course, we set the development centre for the municipality of Lower Kurzeme - Liepaja. Why not unite? If ‘Development/About!’ I am voting against for Liepaja to be a separate municipality, then I would believe you, but for the time being, sorry, your statement that Latvia's sovereign state... sovereign power in Latvia belongs not to the nation, but to municipalities, sounds like cynicism in the final stage. I think your thought could be reworded in an even better sentence. Your wish is that the sovereign state power in Latvia should belong to Development/About! And that the power of the citymen may prevail over the landmen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U74	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U75	Colleagues! Madlena Olbright once asked her how long she was to blame the previous government for all her failings and failures, and her answer was: “Always.” Well, that's Daniel Pavlut's style. He has just forgotten that he has been in politics or at least in public administration much longer than many of the members of the ZZS rank, and what he does not understand is that when making administrative territorial reform, we have to think about Latvia as a whole. Well, it's not that in Latvia there are light bulbs dressed in fine suits with good education and great ego. We also need to think about each Latvian population in the regions, and local government leaders do so every day, regardless of the political power they have been elected. FAO, New Unity, National Union, Development/About! Unfortunately (or perhaps fortunately) there are still not represented. And what you have to remember is that those people who have been elected and those municipal leaders who are fighting so actively and aggressively at the moment are given a mandate. They are even more elected because the people see that they are local government leaders working for them every day. There is no possibility here in Riga to hide behind TV screens, talk wisely and do little.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U76	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U77	Dear President, Colleagues! We actually spent a lot of time yesterday... and to a certain extent... A little bit of me... Let's say, even needless... If we had also agreed in advance on clear criteria, which is what... And I withdrew my... instead of withdrawing, I put forward a proposal to withdraw the criteria because they were simply incomprehensible and foolish. And instead it should be put together, which led to the fact that they don't know where the center... The centre is in a completely different region... and so on. I would like to say that if these criteria were clear... Also in the major cities... and the next proposal - about the counties... And Mr Pavļuta and I already had a discussion. I thought that the Saeima, or parliament, would then be able to control only the criteria, and in practice their drawing and the rest could also be entrusted to the Cabinet of Ministers, and that would have been different. But at the moment, this proposal makes it quite clear what is then a metropolitan city. And I will say even more, including by removing the discussion. Add another point that the metropolitan area may also be around the territory. And then we won't lose it... said there's no big city anymore in Vidzeme... irrespective of what is around, Valmiera will gain its status, as well as the rest. That is why I am calling for simple work to be done in this direction. Well, we're telling you in front of how you can go. And we would be yesterday, not nine, but probably five... not really getting to the absurd... to the absurd that we need to start measuring Jelgava dimensions with Rezekne dimensions. And we will continue to do so, and there will be a Constitutional Court. I call for the direction of debt, and it seems to me that this is something that is not too late to go, because there is next reading in front. I call on you to support this, as well as the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U78	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U79	Two parts. The first part follows. Daniel Pavilut! I call you, Daniel Pavlut, to go to Jelgava and say to one of Jelgava residents, so that he agrees with you that Jelgava is not a big city, that Rezekne is bigger. I call you to do this and to prove to the idols that their city is small compared to those you called great. If it is in the public interest, Daniel Pavlut, then I am very sorry. Is it in the public interest to reform by not setting out at all the criteria for determining which city or municipality will have a status? Just like that, we figured it out, and that's it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “We agreed!” ) It is not in the public interest. And secondly, the most important thing. Daniel Pavlut, you're on the verge and talking about the public interest. A person who has voted against the abolition of the OIC many times, a person who, at the Ministry of Economics, was at that time (how many OICs were issued!) Are we talking about the public interest? A man who has voted for a Prime Minister, who has no public mandate, who has not started elections at all? Are you talking about public interest? And if you talk about them, Daniel Pavlut, then go to Jelgava to more than 50 thousand people and tell them that it is almost not the city, that it is something so small in Latvia, insignificant in Latvia. Maybe you too... Daniel Pavlut, stop being twofold and act like a stateman! Stand above your personal interests, act stately! Develop criteria for how city boundaries are defined, how the city size is determined! Prove that you are a public servant and prove that you have acted for society and not for your party! Daniel Pavlut, I will emphasise even more. For your party “About!” There were no even 500 members in the elections. And you're talking about the public interest?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U80	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U81	Mr. Dombrovskis! The reform is not done for the sake of love (Military Calles: “Ooo! ” ), but to make life better for people in Latvia. (Applause) What we hear... Colleagues, I am very interested in listening to the speeches of the opposition and... Yes, this is what we are saying from this platform, and usually we are talking about what is of greatest concern. And what we see, what is now concerned by the FAO, SACK: these are political parties, they are local government leaders, they are not talking about the interests of the people of Latvia at any place. Don't you feel ashamed? The purpose of this reform is to develop the whole of Latvia so that all Latvians can benefit, as you pointed out, Mrs. Dana Reizniece-Ozola. But what sounds from you... local government leaders, political parties... Colleagues, what's your interest? Latvians? Interest of municipal leaders or political parties?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U82	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U83	That's enough, I've already learned, one minute's a lot. ( The ring of noise.) No, we're so... It's just the second day morning... It's only the second morning, but we're in ancient Athens. We are in the Greek Polis country and have dismantled municipalities, because the power belongs to the people. The power belongs to the people.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U84	Please, quiet in the room! Looks like something's broken in the system. That's a break. Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U85	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dūklavs, Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Judins, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ināra Mūrniece, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Didzis Šmits (Dep. D. Schmidt: “I am, I am, I am!” )... Šmits is, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U86	Dear colleagues, Reopen the debate on proposal 23. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U87	Dear colleagues, Indeed, I was thrilled by Daniel’s words and the recognition that authority belongs to people and not to municipalities. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Tutins said, "And not to the people." ) Then the question is, what will happen there now... at the end of April in Riga? I understand that we are introducing direct democratic governance, as we will meet on the ground in Athens or in Greek politicians, and with your thumb up or down we will decide in the future all the issues. I understand that this draft law, too... Well, the way of direct democracy today... Today, there is a referendum. I understand from this that this draft law (at least Daniel will encourage it) will be passed on to the general referendum and people will decide how to proceed. I am only in favour, and I will definitely support this. So... I will certainly support this development with all four. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kohl: “You pay half a million for the referendum?” ) But there is one such small problem with it – if the power belongs to man and does not belong to municipalities, then the Saeima does not belong to it. Well, what is the difference between an elected municipality and the Saeima? Well, it doesn't belong to us either. Then the question is, what do we decide today? Who are we, and what are we going to vote on? If we say that direct democracy is what the country needs to implement, then there is a very interesting situation. Sometimes those who do not own the state, namely the Latvian Parliament, have restricted the right of referendum to those who... the power of those who own it up to the threshold at which a referendum is virtually impossible. Then, if we return to direct democracy, I also call for changes to the laws and order of referenda in the country, and for the quorum to be removed - which comes, it comes, the majority decides. Well, I thought...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U88	Mr. Schmidt, maybe on the proposal more precisely.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U89	This is absolutely in favour of the proposal. I think that this proposal should be put to a popular vote as everyone else who will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U90	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. There's no grass... Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U91	Colleagues! We shall continue to debate proposal 23. But in fact, as you can see very well, the debate is mainly about whether or not we need administrative territorial reform. I hear here very interesting statements (for example from Mr Kabanova a few minutes ago) about the fact that people have never said they need this reform. I am sorry, Mr Kabanova, that by regularly defending the symbols of Soviet times, you did not notice, for example, that the association for Development/About! , which clearly proposed this reform in its programme, voted over 100,000 people. You think these voters are not people or... What do you mean? I look, Mr Kabanova is not yet with us, unfortunately. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. N. Cabanov: “I am! I'm with you! But not ideologically!” ) and. There are many more people on whom we do not know about whom they voted. Perhaps you too, Mr Kabanova, who, yesterday and today, is clearly in favour of this reform in Twitter, Facebook and other social networks. I’m reading support letters, and I’m reading entries: “Artur, hold on!” When you read the comments of ATR opponents, you get the impression that you are offering to create an iron curtain between the regions and that you will not be able to get to the graves... and many, many other supporting notes. So that I call on our colleagues from the opposition - when you argue against the ATR - to make use of legitimate comments (Laughter). Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) instead of saying that people do not want this reform, because there are still two million people in Latvia. ( Insight: “There’s no more! Thanks to the reform... ") And your party members or your Members are not the only ones, nor are your municipal leaders the only ones who will count and play an important role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U92	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. ( The utterances are: “He is not in the hall! ” ; “What is not in the hall?” . Depp. S. Dolgopolovs: “I am always in the hall!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U93	Dear colleagues, Before the system collapsed, we heard a great deal of shame here and we also heard from Mrs Golubeva now. We do not hear only what we are now discussing. I would very much like to remind the roll of order that in the debate on the second reading... tabled by the draft law, we are talking about the proposals. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “Tell your colleagues this!” ) In this case, the proposal sounds the following... There are cities of major or Republican importance that are legally supported. And in order to free Mr. Pavluta from demagogy, which is a large city, which is a small city, it is proposed to incorporate into law certain criteria that are a metropolitan city. I think it's understandable, it's supportive and it's normal... so that we should not explain that in Ventspils we are taking care of direct democracy, in Liepaja - not. And then maybe we'll start talking really about specific things, not as Mrs Golubeva tries to tell you here that...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U94	Time, time! Sergey Dolgopolov, time's up!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U95	... are supporters and not supporters... That time's over. ( The utterances: “Time! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U96	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U97	Dear colleagues, The view expressed here is that people are calling for this reform. So, how do they ask for it? We have some 40 thousand submissions (Interface: "Listen to your colleagues - talk about the proposal!" )... an application for that ATR? ‘ The voter does not ask for it, the ZZS voter does not demand who is there... National associations of it... so was it elected? No, they're just against the Russians. What else? The CIP was ‘3 × 500’. There was no ATR talk. CPV, let's liquidate the OIC! You will not have any ATR either (Interim.) ... Where does it come from that perception that there is so much demand in society for this reform, colleagues? None of you, maybe except Development/About!... it had not promised. ( Interface: “Read again... !” ) Yes, there was revolution, radical action, liquidation of OIC.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U98	The debate is over! Name to Member Martin Stein. Do Members object to the unification of the time of the debate? There's no objection. The debate time has been combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U99	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! Resurrection! I would like to speak in favour of this proposal from the ZZS and say that I certainly do not agree with Mr Valaiņa that there is only a political criterion left today. In most cases, the initial criteria are met in all regions. In my opinion, there is less need to talk about the cities, districts, districts, but more about the content, cooperation, quality and regular participation opportunities for citizens throughout Latvia (Interdependence.) , that citizens not only need to listen, but must be given tools and resources to implement their ideas. ( Milestones.) I will speak for four minutes. There is no valid argument to say that Members from all units of a given territory are needed in order for development to take place. Even now, members of the municipal council are not elected from specific units of the municipality's territory, parishes, cities. And now there are municipalities in Latvia, where there are, for example, more parishes than members of the council. According to VARAM, no complaints have been received so far about the fact that the interests of people in a certain area in the municipality would not be represented due to the lack of Members. This problem, which is not a problem, is mostly expressed here in the Saeima. The MoEPRD has proposed to increase the number of Members in the new joint regions. The total number of Members will, of course, decrease. And the chance to be elected to the council will be for any of the territories... from any county area which will be able to satisfy a sufficient number of voters. And that is true democracy, not guaranteeing certain territories in a local council. And I would also like to stress that the election of Members is not the only way to involve citizens in the work of local authorities. In parallel with the reform of municipalities, the MoEPRD also drives a new draft law on municipalities, it plans to include opportunities for municipalities to involve the residents in the work of municipalities, creating consultative councils and using the participation budget. And these MoEPRD offers will be a serious test for STECF municipalities, which do not have a comfortable active society, which also regularly express critical opinions. And the city of Jelgava here is a bright example. ( The ring of noise.) I believe that reform is necessary and that reform should not be that it tells us everything. Its new capacity in municipalities will be introduced by the newly elected councils, not by the VAR or by us. And this law is just the beginning of change, not the finish. I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U100	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U101	Colleagues! I call for support to be given to this proposal by Mr Valaiņa so that there are certain criteria, not only political motivation for the creation of cities of national importance, either, even if to avoid that already in social networks people are laughing at coalition computing skills, that three are more than five. But I would also like to respond to Mr Plesh's comment that he cares about the opinion of the citizens, not about the opinion of the local authorities. Mr. Ples, did you speak to those people protesting here at the Saeima? Have you seen those population surveys where, for example, 92 percent of people in Strenčos want to be joined by Valmiera rather than by Valka? But your offer is to add them to the Valka. Have you seen a survey of the population of Ikšķile, where 98 percent of the population wants to keep their territory to its current level. Have you seen other surveys? Where were you during the Strenchi People's Meeting? You had sent an official, a lady who could not, in principle, answer questions rather than be there and listened to what the people wanted.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U102	Time! The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U103	Hello, colleagues! I would ask not to mislead the voters of this troop. And I think there are no Members here against the reform. But the content and what we want to achieve with this reform is very important. And at the moment we are not clear at all where we are going, what we want as a result of this reform and how we are going. And those protesting are not just members and heads of municipalities elected in municipalities. These are people who don't understand you... who don't understand what you're doing right now. And I, too, am in favour of this reform and I was in favour of it. But I couldn't even see in the worst nightmare, which as a result of the reform is originally brought to the Saeima, two major cities: Riga and Jurmala. Are you serious? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “What is the problem?” ) What problems? Problems... Mr. Geidan, you have no problem. You will soon have a problem leaving Jelgava streets. Thank you. I am asking for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U104	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U105	Hello, colleagues! If the majority is not talking about the proposal, I think I could not talk. That's very interesting. Before the break, Mr Kabanova from SASCAN started the subject of liberal tuckism. I would like to try to see if that is possible at all. As you know, Trocky was... Plehanova’s student and as such he was a profound supporter of materialism and, in fact, a supporter of Marxism ideas. And when there was a split in the rows of Bolsheviks, he was in the positions that required... a comprehensive and continuous revolution. He did not believe that one state of socialism was possible. And that's why he was thrown out. Consequently, I think that liberal tuckism is not possible. Thank you, Mr Kabanova, for starting this discussion. That is what we have found.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U106	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U107	Mrs. Golubev! Facebook, a commentary on the decisions of Latvian Municipal Councils, the results of the polls you have read? It has been sent to each Member. Read it! Open your mail once and read what people think about this reform! Read also Development/About! program! Read what is written there! Does the whole of Latvia really support every point that is written there? Do all the people who voted for you and live mainly in cities really support each point in your program? Are you ready to swear about it? I'd believe every word I say here... Both you, Arthur and Daniel, if you take an oath today, if you swear that the implementation of the ATR will improve life for the people of Latvia... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You have already improved your life in Riga!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U108	Time, Mrs. Luņova! Name to Member Aivars Gaidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U109	Please! And guarantee perhaps some million of your own pockets too!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U110	Dear colleagues, I may answer Mrs. Liepiņa. You don't have to fantaize. First of all, there are facts. I understand that every citizen has the opportunity to participate in the development of this reform at the moment, but I have to understand: how municipal leaders have worked so far, this is the attitude of the residents in Latvia as a whole. And then, as I mentioned yesterday, eight days have passed, the citizens of Jelgava municipality, Jelgava city and Ozolnieki municipality have joined together on the ManaBals platform. And now 3,500 votes have been collected. In eight days. Through all the introduction of advertising in “Jelgava Municipality News”, “Jelgava Official”. If the total number is 90 000 people who will be affected by the reform, calculate what support is being given - that is 3 percent. So you don't have to fantaize and tell me everybody... The residents of Jelgava municipality, Ozolnieki municipality and Jelgava city are against this reform. The other way round. — Dep. L. Liepiņa: “It’s not about reform, but about what you’re talking about!” ), 97 per cent in favour of reform. So come and talk about the facts, not dream. You were once in Jelgava district. The cup has cooked you tea, fed you with pies, and with that you too have enough. (Applause) (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U111	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U112	Yes, so funnyly it seems that we have to climb and defend the fact that we have the criteria to determine what is a city. No, seriously, you don't need to. But in this regard, I do not agree with Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, who said that only Development/About! promised the reform. A number of parties promised a reform... The CPV promised a reform. The KPV promised the second level to be created for the counties, right? Where'd it go? Gaidan, where is it? The fulfillment of the promises! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “I didn’t promise anything!” ) Oh, you didn't say anything, you're not a CPV at all, probably, yes. That's... so that... Well... Vjačeslav, if I remember correctly, was also a very similar model in the “Hand” long program - about the second level around the counties - like us. And in the end, maybe... I really call on you, now that we are dealing with the most important issue in the country, this term will no longer decide anything more... Maybe we really go back to a constructive conversation, and what Adamovich also said, we go back to 70. ... We put paragraph 70, let's talk and go.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U113	Time, Mr. Schmidt. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U114	Mr Geidan, if you were to be a nation and take into account what has been voted on on the ManaBals platform, we would not have had an OIC for a long time, we would have been abolished from real estate tax on housing in such a spirit. We would have met all these questions, so people... they simply understand that it is pointless, because you are not acting in the interests of the people. That's the number one. Number two. Mr. Pavilut, you say you are a nation. When there was a referendum... To give the people a referendum, you voted 'no'. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) And, Mr. Pleis, rather than getting out of place, you, as the head of the commission responsible, are on every question on the porch (Interface: “No one is going on the porch!” ) and defend that question. If you... The only thing you're talking about is to get out of the place that you're the head of the commission? Come and defend your proposals, not let them go, Mr. Plies!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U115	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, honourable Members, On the specific proposal again. In the commission responsible... The Legal Bureau also pointed out that, in some respects, it will always be a political decision when determining the status. If someone argues that it is not that we need criteria and we will strictly guide them and so determine what status a municipality or city has... Well, has the status been abolished until now when there have been criteria? Because there are a number of municipalities and there are cases where the criteria are not met. No, because there is always a political decision. Let us assume that Baltinava does not meet the criteria. Are we strictly acting? We're cutting or changing the status right away? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And in this case, too, this is a political determination, as we decide, when we determine the status. And since I think it's a tendency not to really talk about the particular proposal, Mrs Lunova, look at how many letters I have... on support for this reform! Look, look! No, seriously! Look at this! And they come in, and they continue to come in. (Applause) Impressions. Depp. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Come on! Let us count the number of letters of opposition!’ ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U117	Member Viktor Valainis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U118	Yeah. Mr Pavļuta, about what you said, about the fact that the municipalities have seen to be damaging to the development of the country. You must understand, and you certainly know that the municipal budgets are only 20 per cent of the total state budget, in general, in general. So that municipalities could not be responsible for everything. But what you've been talking about are these functional territories, that there will be better services... I would draw attention to the fact that, in this case, there has been no assessment at all of the cities of the republic, no Member... No one has any assessment at all of this... the functions provided by the city and the county where they cooperate. I could list you, and I will definitely list some of you on the next proposal, but, my colleagues, this issue has not been assessed at all, you simply accept it because 'Development/About!' so will and some Zalan once said it was the key to success.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U119	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U120	Dear colleagues, For lunch, we have been arguing about the large, small population. Here, in the proposal, it is proposed to set out the criteria for setting this... Because Rezekne is three times smaller than Jelgava... We're arguing who's big then, who's small. Of course, I understand that people have different complexes, some of them compensate for it with a black mark... BMW cars, others - with a larger territory. But, dear colleagues, let us set specific criteria for how to lead. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “It’s it!” ) I call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U121	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U122	Dear colleagues, Which one, if not Mr. Geidan, knows about pies and tea, if that is so (Applause.) , for which he is ready to work, because with a soft mandate Mr. Gaidan is ready for anything to support the CPV. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U123	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U124	It is very important for those who follow the debate to keep their attention now, which is the debate at the moment. The debate is about... the breakdown of these cities. As objective as it happens, there are larger cities or smaller cities. And what we have decided with our territorial reform (Dep. S. Riekstins: “Ivar, you can talk about what you want, you don’t need to reform!” ), it is that we will maintain this division in large and small cities. And it is very important to determine what these big cities are then. It is very good that Janis Dombrava, a member of the National Union, has now applied to speak after me. Because I really do listen to what your colleague just talked about the big cities, as we say here that it is a political decision... You were the ones on the basis of whose proposal we have now seen a big city in the reform. I therefore call on you, Mr Dombrava, to come here and to explain specifically what you, who put this proposal into the Saeima... and for which the Saeima has voted... What do you mean by what are the big cities. Come now and tell me, show that you understand something from this reform and that what you have done is meaningful, and once again according to these criteria explain why Rēzekne belongs to the big cities, but Jelgava and Ventspils, which are much larger, do not belong. Come and tell me! And, all of society, follow along so that you can understand what farce is and by what incompetent, permissive and irresponsibleness this reform, which really is being pursued (Applause.) very much needed, but not in this way. And you earnestly receive the condemnation and indignation of the society. And, colleagues, think about what you're doing with your country. In turn, all the others, Latvian society, think about whether you need such a Saeima. In my opinion, this is the biggest curse in Latvia's history, which must be released as soon as possible until the country is destroyed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Zālīte-Gross: “It’s a real curse for us - ZZS!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U125	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U126	Mr. Valaiņš, I am in between. ... Mr Valaiņš, I understand that there is enough of this proposal that you have submitted to the law, and you have just said critically about Zalan. But it is this proposal on Article 6... You propose updating the version of the law in 2008 when (Dep. V. Valainis: “The Saeima did this, not Zalans!” )... No, 2008; no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, as a result of the reform of Zalan, this article was also incorporated. Well, maybe it would also be worth discussing some new criteria. I agree that it might appear, which is then the big cities, but it should certainly not be one against one of the existing laws, which has been standing there since 2008.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U127	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U128	Colleagues! I am not a professional curser, but I want to remove the curse from some of my colleagues. ( Interface: “How?... There are no things with you!” ) I don't... I have no subject, but I would recommend taking a white paper sheet, a pen and start writing. And to all those who stand here and defraud this Saeima, to defile this country and who don't like anything, write... write the application and go away as Members. ( Independence: “You must write first! The people have recommended this to you!” ) Thank you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U129	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U130	In the Commission, proposal 23 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U131	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U132	24. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U133	Now, one second, Mr. Plesh! Wait a second! The Bureau received an application from Members Adamovich, Pavļuta, Dzintara, Strike, Zakatistova, Pucena, Ples, Asheraden, Dombrava and Blumberg requesting 5/6. shortening the period of debate to two minutes for the first time and one minute for the second time in the draft law on administrative territories and settlements. Do Members have objections? ( The ring of noise.) Do Members have objections? ( Internouncing call.) ‘ Against’... Please call me! It's not... This is not a debate. Please... Against? ‘ Against’? Please! The word 'no' shall be debated by Aldim Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U134	Coalition! I understand that you want to go further in destruction and shorten the time of the debate. I will explain to you what follows. In view, among other things, of yesterday's evening's precedent, when Mrs Lībiņa accepted your own coalition's application and reviewed... He reviewed the working hours of the Saeima sitting from 15 to nine... This is a precedent that proves, as stated in the parliamentary roll of order, that such applications should be re-examined and re-examined. You will receive such applications every five minutes. If you do not respond to them, you will receive requests to check the quorum in three minutes. If you want such destruction, do you? R. Kohl: “Public, watch and listen!” ) The Saeima... If you want such a destruction (interface.) ... If you want such destruction in the Saeima hall, continue to shorten the time. You'll get this destruction, but you won't get time. I call on you to return to a constructive discussion, allowing the opposition (inter-descriptions.) ... Considering that you do not speak for yourself, because you do not have the idea of what to say, but allow the opposition to explain the brothers you have led, allowing them to explain that there is a reform here, just offering to prevent the brothers, I call on you to withdraw this application. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Undo the signatures!” ) Otherwise, you will receive continuous applications to the piles under the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, and all day long we will decide whether there is a quorum in this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U135	“About” has applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U136	The colleague's proposal is very interesting. You have already begun this debate yesterday with a reduction in the time of the debate. But I would like to call on those who will vote 'yes' to consider the risk we are putting on this bill with this vote. We are all talking about the fact that the draft law must be adopted. ( Internouncing call.) There is a constructive debate... the big... in a large part, however, by nature. Many experts – not only from Latvia, but also international experts – have also pointed to these problems. During the 80-hour panel, experts were heard, local authorities were heard, various opinions were heard, but to a large extent these opponents did not receive any replies. In this case, if we vote in favour, please consider the importance of this vote at this point. And by voting in favour, we will once again shorten the time on which proposals? To the proposals of the basic law, to the proposals of the basic law (Dep. R. Kols: “On the topic!” ), which... Since the commission had not been fully discussed, many were... Many were displaced. At the moment, it would be important, however, to allow Members to speak at the sitting of the Saeima. If we don't do it and... If we do not do so, then we present quite a risk that this issue could be challenged by the Constitutional Court, looking directly from the point of view of good law. By voting in favour, we are putting a very high line for this reform to really fail. And that would be... And he's going to be ruined, not by this Saeima vote, but then by the following consistency that could be. Because the most important proposals we have not even started to talk about yet, they will only follow. If you are familiar with this table of the Commission, the most important proposals will still be ahead. Colleagues! You raise the risk bar (Interface: “On the proposal!” ) that this issue will be challenged in the Constitutional Court directly due to good legislation. Colleagues, think about what you... What are you doing? The Commission's records are available to all, no answer has been given within 80 hours. Colleagues! I believe that this vote “in favour” will not only be a vote, but also an application to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U137	Please enable the microphone Janis Dombravas for the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U138	Yeah. I understand that, of course, the opposition has a desire to talk both about and against, but nevertheless, while respecting the Rules of Procedure.... it requires one speaker to talk about, and the other one to speak against. Now we cannot completely leave all this under the leadership of the sitting. There was a speech by Alda Gobzem “to”. Yeah, it was 'no', but well, Mr. Valaiņš... Well, you can't just turn out for yourself!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U139	Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U140	Dear Coalition! If we are talking about the procedure, these requests, which will follow the breaks in the sitting, will be used for these five minutes as once for the reason that you shorten the time and do not allow the motion to be expressed. Then, in these five minutes, when it comes to 'yes' and 'no', the opposition will speak out about proposals that you do not allow to speak about. And the way we formulate the idea of 'or 'no' is at the discretion of each Member. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U141	Please call me! One Member has spoken for or against. Please vote in favour of the motion by Members to shorten the debate time to two minutes for the first and one minute for the second. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is therefore adopted. An application from Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Didžas Šmita, Julia Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema and Linda Liepiņa requesting a break to the Saeima 5/6 of this year. at the meeting on 10 March 2020, from 12.45 a.m. to 10 a.m. Please... Are you going to talk about it? Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U142	Coalition! I understand that you have more than 51 votes, but in a democratic country, the fundamental principle of democracy is to allow speakers of different opinions to speak. In this case, a different view is part of the opposition. Your actions, by limiting time, are undemocratic, inconsistent with the Constitution, inconsistent with the best interests of society, which Daniel Pavluts spoke about respectively, that he was defending the interests of society. Society has the right to find out every nuance of administrative territorial reform. Since, among other things, Minister Puce did not engage in dialogue with the public, the public has been dissatisfied with this dialogue, the general public has not been involved within the 80 hours that have been the case. And you want this all to happen in Parliament at lunch: such a serious reform! I want to explain to you why this is essential. Because administrative territorial reform is not just an act of butaphoric border mapping. Such a reform is about the fate of people, it is about the fate of more than 1.7 million people. It affects absolutely every citizen of Latvia, and absolutely every citizen of Latvia wants this reform. And you can't agree here... Mr Geidan cannot agree that someone in this Chamber does not want a reform. He has not understood - everyone in this Chamber wants reform, and wants reform as soon as possible, but does not want reform like this... that such a reform would establish that Jelgava is smaller than Rezekne, that Saulkrasti municipality is simply because Dombrava has a house there and in such spirit and spirit. You have not decided these questions for yourself. Why will this time, these five minutes, be used to explain? We are asking for a break for the reason that you, the dear coalition, realise that it is you who behaved in disrespectful and destructively in Parliament by shortening time. We came this morning, we all greeted collectively and agreed that today we were working all day, even until nine at night. It's about lunch now and you're taking your first step again and going into destruction. The opposition did not require such breaks in the morning, but did not demand yesterday, when you started saying that the time for the debate will be shorter than usual. The opposition went and debated. You don't come to the debate, you just go a step away, Mr. Cole, to show you your mobile phone. With whom to list you, God only knows if... God knows! ( Internouncing call.) Show everyone the prints you send there and with which you are listed (Dep. Col: “I mean green – I didn’t print!” ) so that we... Let us all know. But... but the rest, then... How is the debate then taking place? Comes Valainis and tells us in detail about each proposal. At that time Riekstins, Strikķis jumps from the place either “Love!” or “Stop!” Or something like that. The village allows me to have a minor with me for two hours yesterday, to throw the child out. Well, that's... Is it a constructive position?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's disrespectful! It is a shame to Parliament! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You are a shame to Parliament!” ) Such people! Two potential mayors claiming to Riga City Council, those... they're sitting there, one doesn't know what it's doing, the other is drawing some patterns... knowing his past, if... the other only on posters... think, look what the latest posters are going to be. This is the whole debate! Take part in this debate, debate it! What do you fear from the people, Raivi Dzintar? You're one of the defenders of the people, where is your torse in this platform to defend the people? Even Abren have lost you! Well, who are you a defender?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Who are you a defender?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Come on, debate! Don't be afraid of... from the discussion, from the real discussion! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You can’t defend yourself!” ) And so you will get the following... Such requests shall be made every five minutes. You wanted it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U143	Mr Kole has applied to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U144	I don't support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U145	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Internouncing call.) The proposal was rejected. See below.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U146	Proposal 24 - tabled by Member Viktoras Valaiņš. It is very similar to the previous one, which has been rejected. And the Commission was not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U147	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U148	Colleagues! Why such a proposal? First of all, it is not possible to find out in the available documents what criteria the Republican cities were selected for. The cities of the Republic... According to the documents attached to the annex, there is only a list of the cities of the Republic. I think that is wrong. In order to build a successful public administration, a clear public administration must be listed according to some criteria. At present, no criteria are proposed. There were criteria in the past. I propose that clear boundaries be introduced with regard to functional areas and, as Mr Pleis said, with regard to future fund training. Can Mr. Plies answer... For example, Rēzekne municipality, functional territory, so Rēzekne and Rēzekne municipality... if they start with European funds, will they together be its functional territory? And the region of Jelgava will then have to look for another region next to it, for example, to start together with the municipality of Bauska? Because, Mr. Plesh, on the basis of what it is now, it's already coming. You just... I have the feeling that you have not thought up to those practical things, and this is already happening. In the Commission, it appeared, in the Commission, it was an abyss - VARAM... The Ministry stated that public transport is organised by the state in Ventspils city. This shows only the understanding of the work of municipalities. These proposals would identify criteria and some kind of governance structure, without them it will be very difficult to implement successful public administration, colleagues. How will you define the area of health, Development/About!Is that so? How will you determine how quickly it is necessary to respond to the rapid response in Jelgava? In this respect Jelgava will not differ from Iecava, but we know that in nature she is different from Iecava, very much different from Iecava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U149	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U150	This proposal is very important, because indeed we could set at least some criteria for the designation of Latvian settlements. Mr Kola, you would have the right to talk from this troupe about the fact that no criteria are necessary, because all this law and every proposal is, in principle, a political decision if there were no proposal from the National Alliance in the same draft law, with number 55, which is also an attempt to establish criteria for the identification of municipalities... and the granting of status. You could open up and make sure that here it is recorded that your group proposes that the status of a municipality be granted to settlements that are cultural and commercial centres with advanced engineering infrastructure and a street network of at least five thousand permanent residents. I could tell you more: this proposal was partly supported by the Commission and put in 60. ... included in the 61st proposal, which provides for the right to establish urban status for an urban area with five thousand inhabitants. Are they not criteria? Before talking, you need to read the laws carefully!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U151	Name to Member Janis Butan. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “An application! Application!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U152	Hello, dear colleagues! ( Internouncing call.) Today, many discussions are on the opposition's side, many different opinions and arguments are delighted. And I've heard a lot of praises about Victor Valaini, who's very reasoned... and many proposals are within the framework of the law. I have a rhetorical question here: well, how could these proposals not be many, and could not be justified if Viktors Valainis works in the Association of the Great Cities, which then also represents its interests accordingly? And then I have a question: does Viktors Valainis here represent the interests of the Latvian people or the interests of the Association of Great Cities? ( Internouncing call.) And would it not be better, in this case, to refrain from expressing any view in order to avoid this conflict of interest - on the one hand, the large city, on the other, the Saeima and the reform process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U153	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U154	Colleagues! Criteria for determining the cities of the republics are necessary. One example for those who may not yet understand the picture that is now being formed without criteria. Jelgava. Jelgava is the third largest city in terms of population, the third largest in terms of Latvia's GDP, and the third in terms of actual jobs. After the reform, this city will no longer be among the cities of the republic, but, for example, Rezekne with much lower figures will be. I think colleagues, those who argue that the big cities, or the republican cities, must set out politically, positions on slippery path. I understand that perhaps it would be nice if the National Association led the government - then it would become the big city of Saulkrasti, where, as Mr Gobzem said, Mr Dombrava has a house. Well, if, for example, the ZZS returns to power and again is the ZZS Prime Minister or at least the Prime Minister candidate, what will we then have the big city? Pussy?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U155	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U156	According to Mr Dombrava, it seems that the Saeima really is not a place for debate. But when it comes to the proposal, it is the substance of the proposal, not the details. Yes, indeed, the 2008 law laid down criteria, perhaps they should be reviewed, but they were and were the basis. One point. This is extremely important in order to avoid subjectiveity and political taste. Second. We can already today take the decision of the Saeima to unite municipalities or divide municipalities without any appropriate special reform. The Saeima has such a right, so the whole debate remains quite like that, well, pointless. For when there are proposals on concrete proposals to improve the submitted draft law, demagogy and nightmares begin: “Behold, you love the people or you do not love the people! You represent a nation or you do not represent a nation. There are these concepts in your programmes or not." That's stupid! Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to work on the draft law and try to do everything to make him digestible, understandable and meaningful. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U157	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U158	I was ready to answer something to Mr Butan, but everything I can say - thanks for the compliment - I really have an understanding of municipal affairs. And that is what I am trying to tell you all the time that there will be problems in public administration if we do not support this proposal. This proposal, by its very nature, means that Valmiera and Jēkabpils would be established as districts, as is the government proposal, but Jelgava and Ventspils would be built as cities of the republic. And, above all, what I'm going to pay attention to will have to think about the solution for Valmiera and Jēkabpils. The role of these cities in the region... There must be an engine on the ground. If we turn out the cities of the republic right now, you won't have a mechanism to give that engine a fuel. You won't have a fuel delivery mechanism. It'll be general... general municipality, exactly the same as Limbažu municipality, but it will not be a driving force. We have to find these engines, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U159	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U160	Two things I have to say. The first thing is that we don't have any criteria for cities if, I understand, there's no criteria at all. ( Internouncing call.) Then there's a question... then there is a big question. Puce brought its reform proposal for two major cities – Riga and Jurmala. How did the rest of them get in there? Well, it looks like a political market. Those who say that they don't know something there in some way, or some who sold something, may have been in it. Looks like this if there are no criteria. What were the criteria? From the original version of the two major cities to the version in which the fourth major city is not but is smaller. This is inconceivable. That is not what you can explain. The other thing is... So, when another Saeima Member... Even members of the Saeima, despite the fact that it is already entering the Saeima with a series of non-educational ones, without any understanding, there are some criteria. Imagine that there are at least minimum criteria for electing Members. ( Interface: ‘ What criteria? ’) ) Cities... Defining cities, how large or small, there are no criteria. What kind of absurdity is that at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And so you decide on the interests of all Latvian citizens? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) About the fact that you say that all Latvians do not understand what stupidity you do? It is only logical and understandable that such criteria are necessary, that is to say, the main task, so that in the future, you can make some changes, not just admit from your finger: "Well, two... Two... maybe not, then some four... These we like better, these we like worse.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U161	I closed the debate. Do you have anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U162	On behalf of the Commission, proposal 24, like proposal 23, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U163	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal was rejected. Mr. Plies, one minute! I have to read a request from Members Jūlia Stepanenko, Linda Liepiņa, Alda Gobzema, Didžas Šmita and Dana Reizniece-Ozola to declare a break to the Saeima on 5/6 of this year. at the meeting on 10 March 2020, from 12.55 a.m. to 10 a.m. ( Milestones.) “No” has applied to speak... “ Against” (Interior calls. That's funny. Imposition: “He has applied to speak!” )... has applied to speak to Richard Coll. ‘ Against” will speak Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U164	I don't support it. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U165	“About” has applied to speak to Member Didzis Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U166	This proposal has... This proposal has two kinds of nature. The first nature is that it is, of course, a reaction to the reduction in the time of the debate, to the fact that it prevents Members from having a full debate on, in my opinion, the most important... in our view, the most important draft laws in the history of this Saeima. And we will decide what kind of Latvia will be like in the coming decades, how she will be... How she'll be... how she will be managed. And I... I'm really sad that it is. At one point yesterday we were able to find a compromise and not limit each other, not to mention, but if that is the approach, then we are responding to what we can. But the other... the second nature is most important. I really believe that, in order for us to progress on this matter, we would have to make important decisions in the country... I really believe that it would be time to declare a break. Positions... The opposition, no matter what we call what we want, may need to hold a meeting to discuss, in a constructive atmosphere, how we can move forward constructively on this issue. As I understand from Mr Adamovich, our thoughts on how to work on the 70th proposal are legal... I guess it can't be done, but we can definitely find a construction to get to it if we can agree with each other. And again. Like... For example, the proposal that we have just voted on comes again, in my opinion, from a misunderstanding - as let it be said politely - a misunderstanding, a misunderstanding of historical events. Because it's said and Richard Cole said that everything is political and it's normal if... No, it's not normal. And if we look... If we look at the decisions of 1998 and... more precisely, decisions since 1998, when the law was adopted, the problem... where we are today is not because there were criteria, but because these criteria, which were very reasonable, were not met. If we had complied with the law that was adopted at that time, we would have created the second level, the counties, in 22 years' time. We would have created logical municipalities, because one of the first criteria recorded was that the territory of the municipality should be united. We made two... We created two Olaines and two Raunas if, precisely because we did not meet the criteria. We stated that we should be the centre of development, we set the population in the district, he would, of course, have fallen today because of migration, but then we would also adjust the places where these changes have occurred objectively, just as the Finns do. They've reduced... They have reduced the number of municipalities in Finland by more than 10 in the last five years. But how do they approach it? They are solving problems where they are. If the number of municipalities in the north becomes large, they combine them, but at the same time they do not break down Helsinki if. I don't know, I'm already calling for fuel once, but I'm absolutely sure we need a reasonable administrative territorial division, we need a sensible change in public administration... the management of institutions throughout the territory of Latvia. And we can't get to it without real sense of causality, we can't get to it by lamating each other if. ( Internouncing call.) We can't... No, I'm calling for a break... Use a break for constructive conversation between advocates of different opinions... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Salanist: “You go on a break forever!” ) We may not convince each other of our complete truth, but how we could move forward constructively, I think we could agree. I really think we're... I hope that we are reasonable people in this hall who can agree on the future of the country of Latvia objectively, not somehow revere each other politically or predicting their terriblely successful campaign in the next elections to the new municipalities. Moreover, it seems to me that it is a misconception that this may happen. I really call for constructiveness, but of course, if not... We will not be heard, these will continue. Who needs this? I don't know, I don't. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “On procedure!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U167	On the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U168	Thank you. Yeah. I would ask the Bureau to follow the parliamentary roll. If you have received an application, then read it in good time. All these submissions are submitted to you in good time, with the prospect that there may be a debate at that time, so that during the debate... you should not stop the debateer, he could say his words and then you would be able to read the application. Because you don't read it and then say: "You know it's too late," it's a violation of the parliamentary roll. All submissions shall be made to you in due time. And a call to follow the Rules of Procedure roll and read them in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U169	Let's vote! Please call me! We will vote in favour of Members Stepanenko, Liepāja, Gobzem, Schmidt and Reizniece-Ozola's proposal to suspend the sitting by 10 a.m. on March 10 at 10 a.m.! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is rejected. The following submission: I am sorry, Mr. Ples, I still have two applications. ( Milestones.) Yes, I have two applications, and I have them. ... They are put on the table for me, and I want to introduce Members to them. Members Viktors Valainis, Julija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems, Didzis Šmits, Dana Reizniece-Ozola asks for a quorum check to be carried out on 5/6 of 2020. At its meeting in March following the vote on proposal 24. Please call me! Please vote mode (interfaces: “Registration mode!” )... Please check-in mode! ( The box “Watch! ”) ; “Repeat!” ) I again ask Members for registration! Please get the result! Quorum's going on. Honourable Members! Another application by Members Linda Liepiņa, Didža Šmita, Julia Stepanenko, Alda Gobzem and Dana Reizniece-Ozola: “Please announce a break at the Saeima sitting from 13.15 to 10 a.m. on 10 March 2020.” “About” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U170	Colleagues! I too have signed for this break, no matter how unpleasant our situation is. I would ask colleagues to reflect on the organisation of the Saeima's work by the Saeima Bureau. There are five political parties at the Saeima Bureau, one opposition party is not there. And at one point we will have a break, and in some way we have to leave the situation that has arisen. It is now a kind of protest against a reduction in the time of the debate, which the opposition cannot agree to on such an issue... reducing the time for debate on the following: You can choose other draft laws. It is not the first draft law that is being debated much, but it is particularly one that should not reduce the time of the debate. That's my greatest conviction. And the fact that we may be talking a little bit about the proposal, but yet they are expressed in their convictions and much for... a large part of the debate is still on the proposal, and colleagues are trying to argue. We all spent yesterday... and there was also a constructive debate from both the position and the opposition, and I also want to take part in a constructive debate. I would urge you to use this break or one of the next breaks. And, colleagues, I appeal to the group leaders: to meet together and agree on how we will continue today. I am also interested in this draft law being examined. I am interested in the substance of this draft law (Interface: “Do not look!” ), the issues discussed, as these are important issues. Can you allow me to say that I am not talking about the substance of the proposals? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Yes!” ) I am referring to the substance of the proposals. You are not talking at all, Mr Feldman, about the proposals, you are simply sitting and sitting down this sitting. I call, colleagues, on us to agree on how we can work constructively further. This is a certain protest against what you have done - you have called us into this action. Don't blame position... opposition. We are ready to debate. I remember, I'm not the first time in the Saeima. I remember the previous one (Interior call.) ... previous Saeima, when, however, on such important issues, the coalition also gave in to the opposition, defending one proposal, one idea or... This debate is currently taking place in monologue. In a way, this also excites the opposition. The National Association is the only one who seeks to argue on the substance and defend its ideas. For the others, my fellow Members, I am sorry: this is a regrettable debate on these proposals. The UKP - one Mr Kazinovsky, who has remained alone with his own ideas, because the group does not support him at all. Colleagues, let us agree on the constructive work ahead, and I really call for a respectful debate in the future of this troupe. I also apologise to Mr Bondara for not being on the subject in one of my debates, however - outside the proposal. But this is an essential question. I call for work and debate on the proposal. If it takes a week to be that week. It is important to talk to everyone so that it is clear what these issues are about, because it will affect Latvia's development over the next 10-20 years.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U171	The word 'no' to Member Aldim Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U172	Dear colleagues! I am against interruptions and for administrative territorial reform, but I am for constructive work. And with a constructive job, I think in the parliament - where else, but in the parliament! - the debate is, by its very nature, an indicator of the quality of the work of this parliament, allowing it to be discussed. And the society that sees it all... Seeing, as a coalition always on important issues - on the budget, on the increase in the funding of its parties, and now on the administrative reform - shortens... shortens the time so that there is no discussion... However, I call on the public to think about and dismiss this House. This is the least quality parliament ever in the history of Latvia. Forgive him because he doesn't work in the interests of the people! For my part, dear colleagues, I know... I am very well aware of the times in which I have been played, and I am not conscious of the proposal in a direct way, in order to exacerbate your indifference, to exacerbate your indifference, to exacerbate that you do not have the competence to exacerbate that you do not know the Rally of the Order... including, for example, some Members who are the least in front of them. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “I sat down in front of you!” ) I am ready to give up on this. I am prepared to give up this if you participate constructively in the debate and finish the shortening of time. This is not democratic. It is not worthy of parliament; it is not worthy of society. This is not a political reform, it is not a reform of political parties. Administratively, territorial reform goes beyond the interests of political parties. It is for all citizens, that is for the interests of all citizens. And I very much hope that we will get to the end, not by tearing down the time and not discussing it, simply brutally dragged forward with the couvaldo just because you have 51 votes (Dep. J. Malt: “More!” )... I hope that will not happen. I hope, however, that you want to act in the public interest, as you say from the platform. But if you want to act in the public interest, at least discuss the matter, come to the public to explain... at least so much - give the public a referendum so that the public can vote. And if society votes like that or so, respect this choice. Therefore, dear colleagues (I understand that we can have mutual prejudice or sympathy, and they can also be like you... As Rūdolfs Blaumanis once said that “the fence that the mind is raised feels easily hurt, ” and we may also have this feeling, as if in other political organizations or without organisations... Not at all), this is not a funny question. You shame this Parliament with the attitude you have. As long as he comes with his arrogance and says, “I don’t support it there!” There's something in one sentence... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “One name!” ) That arrogance! Mr. Cole, Mr. Cole, maybe we should put that arrogance aside? You're just a people's servant, just for the taxpayer's money supported person, just that, and everything - nothing more. Nothing else! You must do the will of the people - only! You are a servant, just as I am a servant. — Dep. Feldman: “You are a servant?” ), not a haughty boss who comes here and... “We have more than 51 votes and we will now do what we want!” Mr. Cole, get down on the ground! I know that you are a rich family and can afford a lot of money. — Dep. Col: “What are you talking about? You are not poor either!” )... Put down on the ground, be simpler! More people will love you if you are simpler. More people! You will love not only those salons, but the whole society! ( Internouncing call.) In the same salons where you had sex with each other's lion. And so I call on you to be constructive. You don't want to be constructive, you won't be! The public will see more quickly that you all... we must all be fired. This Parliament must be released urgently, it must be released as quickly as possible! We have to let those people who don't want to work here! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Go and fire!” Substitution: “Time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U173	Time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U175	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion by Ms Linda Liepiņa, Ms Didžas Šmita, Ms Julija Stepanenko, Ms Alda Gobzems and Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola to suspend the sitting by 10 a.m. on 10 March 2020! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -24, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal was rejected. We're going on.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U176	The 25th proposal is therefore tabled by Member Viktoras Valaiņa and lays down the rules for establishing, eliminating or amending the boundaries of the district. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U177	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U178	I'd like to say... including what you said, but this proposal is about the criteria for establishing regions. If we look at them, they are criteria for establishing the municipalities under the law in force. If supported by such criteria, the number of municipalities... If we do... On the basis of such criteria, the reform would reduce the number of municipalities from 119 by more than half. But it would also give you a second thing. That would say at least... to mark what is then the region. Currently, in the absence of these criteria Jelgava municipality is assembled together with Bauska municipality. Is that the same thing? If you think it's the same thing... I think this is not the same thing. If we look at how public administrations implement policies, then public administrations should be instruments for directing these policies to the regions. As criteria for municipalities, clearly stating what is a municipality and what is not a municipality, it is now also shaping, let us adopt, an agricultural policy. And agricultural policy... Rural Support Service, too. Everyone knows that the LEADER programme is one of the most successful programmes. If there is no such proposal, how will you direct this LEADER programme to the region? What's going to happen? I'll answer you. The programme for these rural areas, the business support programme, will be used by all those who are now in the county category according to your offer. Do you think this would be right on the part of public administration? I think that would be absurd. Rural support payments could also be received from the municipality, which is Jelgava, including the city area. There are also forests in the city area, and there are also agricultural areas. And most importantly (Interior call.) ... I'm sorry, yeah...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U179	Time! Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U180	You know what it's all... if it is honest, the opposite in this Parliament? That coalition is sitting here, there's some kind of... Well, I'll call it, I always call it! - I'll call it Riekstin, for example. He's sitting down, he's laughing at something, he's going to run something and he's... But he has not put forward any consistent proposal, he has never steped in a consistent discussion, he just like such an orangutan from the place. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) That is the opposite of what needs to be spoken of. And that's fair!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U181	Mr Gobzem, please, for your proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U182	That's my opinion. I really thought so.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U183	Please, for the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U184	Are Members of Parliament doing so? Mr. Riekstin, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U185	Mr Gobzem, please, for your proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U186	About... on the proposal, it is also clear that it is complete... Well, what are you... You reject the fact that the criteria for determining the regions are being proposed. The regions, like anything else, are determined on the basis of criteria. Again from... Well, let's get out of our finger! But that is a serious question. Finally, how will you tell me? ‘ This will be the region, it won't be. Because we just want it!” How can we do so in the future? How? Then someone will change again... As it is clear that you will not be elected afterwards, the KPV LV will definitely not be in the next Saeima. But... And then what? Then there will be another coalition, then there will be something different again. Others will enjoy other districts. It is therefore important to establish specific regions. And what I said at the beginning is my thoughts, it's not offensive, my thoughts can't hurt anyone. But that's what it is. How do you behave? Sit down, you're kidding me! Come and debate, do not shame the House. Who are you... What - are you in a zoo or are you members of the Saeima who need to discuss ideas from the tribunal? Look at you in the mirror! “ All right, all right! Look at you too!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U187	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U188	Yes, colleagues, this text of the law (and we will discuss it later) indicates that territorial breakdown units of the district are defined and included in the annex to this law. With regard to the proposal put forward by Viktoras Valaiņa, it is true that these are the existing criteria which determine what should then be the territorial division of the county. After the previous reform, already at the time of the adoption of the law, these criteria were not met. And throughout this period, while we were going through a new reform, the criteria were in force in the law, but none of the regions came together in such a way that those criteria were met. I would like to point out that, in the meetings of the committee, when discussing the creation of municipalities, we have held to the criteria that are... as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers and included in the annotation of this draft law. And here I can really join Mr Kola in the fact that we are the Saeima (we are politicians) and the Saeima takes political decisions. Consequently, the criteria for how they are reflected... in one way or another - it is a political decision. The question is: why before we discussed administrative territorial reform and localisation in general... Why in advance when the law was... These criteria were included, no backward steps were taken to create stronger regions that would meet the criteria?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U189	I would like to end the debate this time because there is an application by Members Ivars Zariņa, Vital Orlova, Armanda Krauze, Julia Stepanenko and Linda Liepiņa to declare a break at the Saeima sitting from 13:25 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. on 12 March. And to motivate you the word “for” was asked by Member Maris Kučinskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U190	Dear colleagues, You see where we're going. And I want to talk a little bit about the relationship that Parliament has. I've been here since January 2003. I'll tell you, for the first time in this term, I feel and feel like a person I'm almost out of account, just like anyone else. I'm talking to the Hall of Noise. ... I spoke to my former ministers from the coalition. I'm talking... the fact that there have also been people sitting here on a bench when it comes to deciding whether they will be dismissed or not. And at the same time, no one treated them without respect, and they too... and no one has acted. You too can assure me. Politics is a compromise. Politics will never be that one can roll and he succeeds, and the other will just sit and watch. Why did the previous reform go over a hundred instead of 80? Because there's a settlement at some point - either you're sitting at the table and talking, you find a compromise, some common denominator, everyone goes against each other, and then there's a result, or you're going with your head in the wall. You have entered this Saeima with a new tradition. I think the rest of us, too... we feel it very well... because we are the ones that go ahead, you are the ones that just interfere here with something. Its parliaments are not working, the parliaments are working only if this is the case in the debate. So I'm just asking you to stop all this at the moment, sit at the table, agree (Interface.) ... Mr. Pavilut, agree on those issues. This is not the 'no' reform. Neither I nor anyone else is a 'no' reform, but there are points that need to be discussed which can be agreed upon, and this deconstruction will come to an end. If you want deconstruction, you'll get it. ( Internouncing call.) Young man, you need to learn a lot more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U191	“Pret” has applied to speak to Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U192	I am against! Yes, I am “to” in this case, and I am “to” to such a Saeima work. And you know what? If such work of the Saeima continues, then the Rule of Conduct must be changed. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Sounds like noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) And the roll of order must be changed so that, if Members do not speak about the proposal - if they do not talk about the proposal and the proposals - then they can proceed to the vote on the draft law at once. So what do you do? What to do is our colleagues not to talk about the proposal? (Applause) Depp. I. Riena: "And are you talking about the proposal?" ) The parliamentary roll of order should therefore be changed. I am 'no' to such work, so I am 'no' to this proposal. And change, change! - Order rollers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U193	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Vitaly Orlova, Armands Krauze, Julia Stepanenko and Linda Liepiņa's offer to stop the sitting until 9 a.m. on 12 March! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 25, 52, abstaining, not. The proposal was rejected. We are continuing the debate. Name... Three minutes. Or Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova... You're going to have three minutes? You will have enough of it ( Dep. Mr Ločmele-Lunova: "three minutes, but the time for the debate is how long? Two. That's enough!' )... Is that so? Two, that's enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U194	Thank you. Despite the fact that some Members are an example of immeasurability and poor education, I will continue to talk about the proposal and remind you that this proposal is an attempt to introduce reasonable criteria while leaving the Saeima free to take political decisions. If we assume that we will have only political decisions in the future and that political decisions in this Saeima are taken by a majority vote of the coalition, then really I could agree with Mr Bondara, we could be safe now - but everyone! - to write applications for appointment (Dep. A. Geidan: “Start with yourself! ” ) and leave the power in that country to the government, your government.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U195	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Well, one minute, maybe... and... One minute...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U196	It should be said that political decisions are also based on the specific criteria that are the subject of the proposal in question. I am very sorry that the coalition Members have not succeeded in leading the coalition. Instead of fighting the opposition, we should force our government so that there will not be a brother who is regularly presented to Parliament... There is a need to force the official to prepare normal documents in order to have normal procedures and normal results. This is the main task of the coalition, not to fight the opposition and try to change the Rules of Procedure for your own needs. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U197	Please register the Members! We're going in between. Please! The name of the Member, Maria Golubeva, to read the results.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U198	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons... The plant is, Jānis Adamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dūklavs, Andrejs Judins, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ināra Mūrniece, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U199	In between, by 14.00... no, 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U200	Honourable Members! Please take your seats in the Chamber. Yeah... We are continuing the debate on proposal 25. We can start the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U201	I would like to say something about this to you, colleagues, essential... Another important point. As regards the criteria of the municipality, the panel held a debate without hearing the local authorities. Mr Ples, this was the proposal, where we also asked in the protocol to record that municipal organisations were not given the name at all. In my opinion, this does not in any way constitute a good legislation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U202	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U203	Proposal No ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U204	Please enable... I am sorry, Mr. Plesh, I am sorry. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Agechin for the procedure. ( The transcripts are: “No! No!” ) No? ( Interface: “Go! ”) ) Let's go! Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U205	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U206	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 45, for - 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U208	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U209	The proposal submitted by the Group of the National Alliance provided for the exclusion of the first paragraph of Article 4, namely the way in which the region is divided into municipalities and municipalities. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U210	Members agree. ( The transcripts are: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Members agree. Next - 27.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U211	The 27th proposal submitted by Mr Valaiņa provided for the addition of Article 4 as to the way in which the region is divided. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U212	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U213	This proposal, colleagues, is intended to create a municipality in the municipalities... and the parishes of the municipalities, namely, sub-units set up. It goes hand in hand with the concept of the creation of counties. I accept that now, too, if we look at the appendix... for the municipalities in the first annex, it is quite clear that it is a return to the old district municipalities, just what has not happened to this relatively old-fashioned approach... However, this should have been done to the end as well. And to the end, it can be done if the law immediately says that under these second level municipalities, which in this case would be a first level supplement, there would be municipalities and municipalities of municipalities. This would also lead to the revitalisation of the county model. But that would be... should be kept as the first level... It goes along with what the law already offers, yes. Colleagues! I call for support for this principle to be already enshrined in the basic law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U214	I closed the debate. Will you say something in the name of the commission? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U215	Yeah. In the Commission this proposal, 27, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U216	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Five, against 52, abstaining - not. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U217	Proposal No 28...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U218	I'm sorry, Mr. Plesh! I'm sorry, please. A statement by Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Ulda Augulis, Linda Liepiņa and Viktoras Valaiņš has been received: “Please declare a break at the sitting of the Saeima on 5 March this year, continuing from 14.40 a.m. to 10 a.m. on 10 March 2020.” The word “for” to Member Aldim Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U219	Members of the Coalition! The opposition wants you to... I am speaking on behalf of the opposition. We have agreed in principle on such an offer to you on how we could return to the constructive work of the Saeima. And that is, the next submission we will be making will be a request to resume the debate, three plus one minute. And if we agree - the position and the opposition - on the renewal of the period of debate for three plus one minute, then the opposition will use the maximum constructive force on the subject for three plus one minute. If you do not agree and want to demonstrate your power, then we will continue to make applications with a request for interruptions and at the same time apply for both for and against because, at this time, we will have the opportunity to explain those positions that we cannot objectively explain in two minutes, for example, why we need to be specific... So a specific specification for... how to determine what is a county or why a specific specification is required, how to determine what is a large city or why one city is or is not a... the regions to be added, and in such a spirit. I therefore call for a position to be constructive, to refer to this proposal from the opposition. I call on you to vote for the renewal of the debate for three plus one minute, to which we initially agreed, and then to work accordingly until the end of the working day. But if you don't agree, it's... You're saying publicly that...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U220	Mr Gobzem, this is not about the question that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U221	Yeah. If you do not agree, then, of course, we need a break, Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, to prepare for a regime that tells us in two minutes about the comprehensive administrative reform that was seen by the Commission for 80 hours... Members who were not members of the Commission and who did not have to participate there. They can't objectively do the same thing in two minutes as Mr. Plies in 80 hours. It is therefore only reasonable that non-members are given time to express their views. And I call on you to show that you want a constructive job in this House. This will therefore be the next submission, and it will be submitted immediately. I'm calling you back to... If you need time for reflection and discussion with each other, perhaps a short break is needed for this sitting of the Saeima. If not, then I now have a request for a break until next week, so that we can prepare to speak in another form of discussion, because otherwise it is absolutely clear that today's work will be paralyzed and, in line with the Rules of Procedure, the opposition will exercise its rights for that reason... to show the public in what absurd and farce a discussion is being conducted on the most important issue of... which is, in fact, even more important than the public budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U222	Ms Juta Strīķe, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U223	Since we can and want to work, I call for a vote against the break.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U224	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal was rejected. We are continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U225	So, colleagues, we stayed on the 28th proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņš. And it's from this bill... exclude from this law the part of the section which regulates the possibility for the municipality to form parish associations. In the Commission, this proposal by Mr Valaiņa was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U226	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U227	Colleagues! This proposal is already in force. This draft law is also intended to maintain this existing framework. I suggest that, first of all, I exclude it for that reason... the transfer of this function fully autonomously to the municipalities themselves, which would in some way not make any frame of reference. The second point is why this proposal should be excluded out. Current arrangements, e.g. in Rēzekne municipality. They have such associations of parishes, which work autonomously. Indeed concentration of resources, this is all happening. In order to do so, it is not necessary to have such a standard. But if we exclude this rule from this law and support successive proposals I'm going to talk about, we can get a basic basis to have logical areas where we could not just wish... The management of the municipality appoints zero-level management, if it could be said, but it could also create logical units in which to elect the parish or... or the administration of an association of municipalities. In such a case, we would avoid a situation where zero-level governance models would be very fragmented, but would get one clear... get a road map to get to clear, concentrated, effective zero-level governance models. Colleagues, I call for support. There are two parts of this proposal: one is to cut red tape, the other is to create a road map to sound zero-level management and to reflect it in this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U228	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, give your opinion.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U229	This was not supported by the Commission when it discussed this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U230	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 8, against - 52, refraining from - 15. The proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U231	The next item is the 29th proposal by Mr Valaiņš. And this provides for the addition of a new article on the territorial division of the region to the draft law. At the same time, I would like to point out that Article 5, which we have now supported, already provides for such a territorial division of the district. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U232	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U233	This proposal provides for territorialisation to be established in a different way from the basic text of the draft law, in my view, a much more successful territorial division. In the basic text of the draft law, we continue to talk about the fact that we have only one level of governance. In my opinion, for the second reading, to be in line with good legislation, we still need to strengthen the path chosen by the Saeima. I would remind my colleagues that there were two decisions in the Commission, in fact mutually exclusive conceptual decisions. One conceptual decision was to establish a second level of governance by planning regions. And the other conceptual decision was about zero... the level of governance. But I think you, colleagues, understand that if both of these things are implemented, then we will get to Latvia up to the three-level governance model. And the three-level governance model, in my opinion, would not be the most successful and effective governance model for Latvia. Therefore, a solution must be made at one point. And I call on you, my fellow Members, to perhaps come to debate and tell you at some point. I understand Mr Kazinovsky's position, I understand the position of the National Alliance, but your position... You're just telling me that sometime after that we're going to decide all this. It's not all possible. It's impossible when it's... The three-level governance model for municipalities in Latvia will not be effective. That's... There is currently uncertainty about the second reading. And I, my fellow Members, call on you to come and... Either support one of my proposals (it marks an immediate clear direction for work at third reading), or come and tell me what your conceptual decision is. The Commission unanimously supported both decisions. How can the Saeima move forward logically at third reading? What task will the Saeima Commission have? You talked to the President, but then what are you to the President...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U234	Time! Mr. Valains, time!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U235	... Have you karted the pasta in that case?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U236	I closed the debate. Mr. Plies, the Commission's conclusion.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U237	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the Commission has indeed voted conceptually in favour of creating a level of regional governance. As I said earlier, this is also reflected in the forthcoming proposals of 70 and 105. The Commission also voted conceptually on the creation of the zero level. At the same time, it is clear that the zero level is the term for which we will look for the best name. In discussions with the President, too, it was said that they could be called parish boards, as it exists in Līvāni Municipality, for example. But, as we discussed yesterday, it is a question of the law “On Local Government”. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U238	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -8, for -51, for -16, for -16. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U239	30. is a proposal by the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan, that was to say a different title to Article 5. It was rejected by the Commission because of the terminology that was included in Mr Bordan's proposal for updating and changing... Here terms are, by their very nature, also included under the heading ‘Determination’ in the version of the existing law. This proposal was therefore not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U240	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U241	The proposal of the Minister of Justice on the substance (or perhaps more could have been said by the rapporteur) is in fact a reduction in administrative costs so that the Land Service does not have to spend excess resources. I think that to the end of the idea that the Minister of Justice had brought... It is a practical proposal that I would actually like to support, because it is aimed at reducing public resources for the State Land Service... through such an approach there is a clear signal of how to make changes to addresses. So, colleagues, I call on you to support the UK.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U242	I closed the debate. Please, Mr. Plesh!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U243	As I said, this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U244	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U245	31. The proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņa, a Member, provides for the establishment and amendment of administrative territories. In the present case, the panel set up a separate article containing all these different ways of identifying and... the arrangements for the identification and modification of administrative areas. For this reason, this proposal was partly supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U246	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U247	Good legislative practice also requires procedural issues to be played here today from the Saeima Tribunal. This proposal... Yeah, that's... Thank you, it has been partly supported, it has been submitted... the Commission's proposal, but on the procedure as it was. Members of the Commission were put on the table - this will be the new proposal. This was by no means an important proposal, nor was it possible for the social partners, the social partners of the Saeima, to get acquainted with it in good time. All this took place at the commission meeting, read on the spot, and then with great confidence in VARAM... should have listened and decided that we support or not support such a proposal. I think that, procedurally, it only shows what the Saeima has been... Well, let's say, the quality of the work of the Saeima Commission, because the quality of the work is what will be assessed, and in this case the quality of the work was not finally at the highest level. Again, I can only note that, by nature, the answers to the questions asked by representatives of different local government organisations were not provided and were not given an opportunity to get to know them properly. The emphasis here is on "to get to know properly" the norms of the basic law, and at the moment, too, we do not have the opportunity to debate them properly. These are important points. Thank you for the proposal that is partly supported, but the question is the process that we are going through to such proposals. It is not normal for the Members of the Commission to just get a leaf: "Where will that be the basic norms on the administrative territories?" Colleagues, this is not a good practice!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U248	I closed the debate. What is to be said on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U249	As I have already mentioned, in a joint text in Article 6, which would bring together all... all the procedures for the designation and amendment of administrative areas were partially supported by this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U250	Mr. Valains, is there a need to vote? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “No!” ) No... In that case, Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U251	32. the proposal also tabled by Mr Valaiņš concerns associations of municipalities and the way in which the Council determines... their order, that is, it determines... is in the municipality law not later than 1.5 years before the current municipal elections. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U252	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U253	Colleagues! Proposal 32: “Administrative territories – parish associations shall determine the council in the municipality’s statute not later than 1.5 years before the current municipal elections. The initial division and amendments to the administrative division of the municipality shall be approved in the referendum of the municipality.’ Today, however, municipal referendums are not possible. This would, in my opinion, be an excellent case where municipal referendums would have been an opportunity... to express their thoughts in this way. This proposal. That, to be honest, is not at all a vote, because it contains the idea of this municipal referendum built in, which should perhaps be incorporated into the transitional provisions of this law, just as you are about to incorporate many other laws, to promise... Perhaps it could also be promised that it will ever come into effect. And the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government will still consider it to the end so that it can use this model, the instrument in the work of local governments. But the most important thing is that with this proposal I try to get the attention... the question of amending the administrative territories of municipalities... associations of municipalities would also have the legitimate support of residents of the municipality. And that would take the form of a local referendum. Colleagues, I will say once again that it is also, by its very nature, non-voting. But I would ask you to think and support at third reading, when we get there, delegation, task Saeima, for ourselves, because the bill is already in the Saeima... adopt this law during the period under review, possibly until 1 June 2021, when the new municipalities will start to work. Perhaps regulation will also enable people to divide these pointlessly combined areas.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U254	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U255	Thank you. Member Valainis has already said that this proposal is not, by its very nature, to be voted on, but I would also like to recall how difficult the situation arose to us at the moment when, when applying for a reform of the ATR, the local authorities wanted to identify their citizens' views. It was criticised that authorisations to do so in general were granted. It seems to me that it is only normal if you are the head of a single municipality, then, before making a decision by the council, before the campaigning of your fellow Members who work there, you have to clarify the opinion of the citizens. In the future, we need to have quite clear rules of the game, in which cases the municipalities do so when they are allowed to do so, in what cases and what format, what... Which one should follow. And especially in such major and significant reforms that affect the population of municipalities, there must be a clear order in which they can also express their views more often than once in a few years in municipal elections.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U256	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U257	Colleagues! It is indeed an interesting proposal, but to be honest, this draft law is not the right place to adopt it. Naturally, when the debate on the referendum law begins... whether the debate on the referendum law will continue, this idea should certainly also be considered. As one of the indicators to change borders or to create regions, or to change the status of a city, could really also include a referendum to clarify the opinion of citizens about it... there would be no political argument, no emotional... or assumptions that very often sound instead of arguments. But I repeat that this bill is not the right place. As far as transitional provisions are concerned, where this case could be rebutted... Unfortunately, today's transitional provisions have promised a great deal that it will be done, even though, to be honest, working on this draft law, it would be very right if it were a package of draft laws that would not only deal with municipal law but also municipal financing models and other matters, including the referendum law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U258	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr. Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U259	In the Commission, proposal 32 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U260	I understand that you do not hold the need to vote. No, no. Next.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U261	The 33rd proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan, was also partly supported and included 40. - the Commission's proposal. In the light of the above considerations, which I mentioned in Mr Valaiņa's proposal 31, Article 6 also provides for packages... identification and modification of administrative areas.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U262	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U263	This proposal, tabled by Mr Bordan, is largely related only to the efficiency and economy of the administrative costs of the State Land Service. This has been included in the 40th proposal and is a strong illustration of the fact that the country must start with itself. And when the country starts with itself, of course, it looks at how it could immerse itself into possible changes in addresses. But what has not been done in the commission and absolutely not done in the commission has not been assessed in any way... how much it will cost to economic operators. In this context, I would also like to raise the subject of how much the business people will pay for changing addresses to packages. This is not calculated anywhere at any time. The entrepreneurs themselves are not really asked this question either. That's why I would also call... I mean, the Cabinet of Ministers, not members of the Saeima at this point, but the Cabinet of Ministers to review and carry out some dialogue with economic operators to estimate how many territorial changes are being made, and therefore the change of address would pay economic operators. The cost to public administration is not small at all. As far as the interests of economic operators are concerned, this is absolutely unclear. That is why, in order for Members to make qualitative decisions, these issues must also be clear and understandable. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U264	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U265	Proposal 33, as I said, was partly supported by the Commission and included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U266	Members agree. I have stopped, Mr Ples, you because one application has come from Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Māra Kučinska, Janina Jalinska, Linda Liepiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armanda Krauze, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Inguna Ribena and Viktora Valaiņa: “Please state in the continuation of the sitting on 5 March this year that the time for the debate on the draft law on "Law on Administrative Areas and Accommodations" is three minutes for the first time and one minute for the second time.” Do Members have objections? And... ‘for’. ‘ Against’ has applied... “for”! Let's start with "for". ‘ For” applied to speak Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U267	Hello, colleagues! I think that the last eighteen minutes have been the same as the debates in Parliament should have been held in accordance with European and Western standards. It seems to me that the morning part was indeed a shameful stain both for the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia and for us as Members. That is why I urge and my colleagues, who have also signed this application, to return to the time of the debate that we set yesterday. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Salnieks: It was so good!” ) And the reason I think is very important. Because some of the proposals we have to debate are very few, or we can not debate at all, but there are proposals where more debate is needed, where Members still explain their views. And in any case, we are in favour of constructive work, so this proposal is for constructive work to take place here further, so that we look at this draft law at the best of Parliament's traditions, not at some kind of parliamentary tradition in third countries. And I hope, of course, that it won't come to what's on the break that the media have already written... not because we are discussing local government reform, national issues, but because there is almost a fight between two Members. Colleagues! We really respect each other and support this proposal. In this case, too, we, as the opposition, want a constructive work. And I think society really has to see that we work for society, not we insult each other here, trying to physically attack each other. This is totally unacceptable to Parliament. And we're constructive! This proposal is about the same minutes that we talked about yesterday. Please support it. Of course, Mr. Cielen, you did not know what we have submitted, you applied to speak against. Well, I understand that he could have listened to what this proposal is about before he comes to say 'no'. This is not about a break, this is not what we can do again. Because in any case, if you limit and continue to restrict the right of the opposition to speak, which is the rights enshrined in the Constitution and the Rule of Procedure, then we will return to what happened in the morning. But we are offering a constructive job: to increase the time of the debate as it was yesterday.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U268	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U269	Since we see that the opposition does not even use these two minutes, I call for a 'no' vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papale: Cancel the debate at all! ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U270	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 46, for - 6. The offer was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U271	Colleagues! Let's go. The 34th proposal, tabled by Mr Cazinovskis, is also related to the 2nd and 16th proposals that he tabled, which we have already examined, and also concerns the creation of administrative regions. As I have already mentioned, the Commission has produced a joint text that is reflected in proposals 70 and 105. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U272	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U273	Dear Members, This proposal is a continuation of the proposals for the establishment of administrative regions. The proposal consists of a list of regions to be designated in these administrative regions, i.e. a specific boundary in the annex. But I also wanted to make it clear why these administrative regions are needed at all. A lot of money... So Latvia makes the budget together with... European Union Structural Funds... For this moment Latvia has exceeded the threshold which can be obtained at the maximum, so 70 per cent has actually been exceeded due to the fact that Riga has exceeded it for a long time and exceeds 100 per cent threshold. In fact, Riga, in order to receive maximum budget support from the European Union, is a barrier, a brake at the moment, because there is one region all over Latvia, and Riga is a barrier. If there are administrative regions, like, at least in the same Finland... where every region - Latgale, Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme - has a level of development of between 40 and 50 percent, we can get back and invest the Structural Funds and also public funds as much as possible in these regions, so there is a need for administrative regions if someone has not yet understood this. I am asking for support for this proposal and for it, or otherwise, to return to the creation of administrative regions in Latvia as a second level regional administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U274	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U275	Well, you see, once again, we call on you to make a unanimous conceptual decision by the Saeima to tell us in which direction we are heading. What Mr Kazinovsky spoke about is, in fact, very serious. And now, regional differences between Riga and Latgale, Kurzeme, Zemgale, Vidzeme... We can take any region. They are twofold and threefold different, and today's policy, the National Development Plan, which has been approved by the government and which includes this reform, actually proposes that this disproportion be changed by five percentage points. In fact, after seven years, the offer is that in Latgale people will live three times worse than in Riga. Colleagues! The whole country will pay this price. And I cannot agree in a way with Mr Kola: your attitude to the opinions of the Legal Bureau is also different. We are at this point expressing a different attitude as to whether this should be strengthened by the basic law. When you voted in favour of the Riga City Council's dismissal law, where the Legal Bureau made it clear that the Riga City Council should not be released for waste, then everything was fine. Currently, the Legal Bureau is concerned that it should be regulated in other laws, but also the President of Latvia and any logically thought person would like everything to be in one place in some way. And here I do not agree with the Legal Bureau. The previous law already reinforces these cases in one place, and this proposal would also strengthen this second level of governance, the chart in Annex 2 as a clear vision for Parliament on the second level of governance. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U276	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U277	Can't be in a salty condition. There is indeed a resolution here as to whether or not there is a level 2 administrative breakdown. If that is the case, then it is imperative that the map be what we were talking about yesterday and talking about today. But then... Whereas the 70th proposal entrusts the Cabinet of Ministers with the task of drafting the relevant law, it is necessary to specify transitional provisions that this second Annex shall enter into force when that law also enters into force. I therefore say once again: here, the Saeima must support or not support this proposal, knowing, clearly aware of what we are doing next. Because it can't be that we say one thing in words and after things get to work, we say that we wait for another and we will do something different. The map must be, and it is an integral part of this law and this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U278	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U279	Colleagues! Several experts have pointed out in the process of drawing up the administrative territorial reform that other reforms should also be carried out at the same time, such as the transport network to be organised, the school network to be organised, and the financial reform should also be more precise and correct, such as the system of financial equalisation of municipalities. It has not had time, and it has not been done. But what should be at least as a minimum programme in the process of adopting this law must be agreed on what, in the end, we will have levels of government. And then we could agree that we also adapt all the other systems - transport, education, health, finance, which is wrong, but which is at least a step forward. That is why I also agree with those colleagues who have already called from the tribunal here. Now, at second reading, there is a need to agree on conceptual matters, such as whether we are creating a second level of governance, with the details being arranged at third reading alone, and not the other way round, leaving such an important issue to third reading. So I am calling for support for this proposal by Kazinovsky, because I think he is also trying, on his own side, to explain why he should do it now. And quite logically, those arguments are also sounding.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U280	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U281	Once again, I would like to express my conceptual support for Mr Kazinovsky's position, but at the same time I would like to point out why we cannot support the 34th proposal in the way it is presented. We hope that this will be corrected for the third reading. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The territorial division of the administrative regions of the public administration is determined by Annex No 1 to this Law. 2 "First of all, I have already pointed out that the Group's agreement is about the elected level of administration at the second level and not about the administrative region of public administration. Secondly, if we look at the second appendix... and how the territorial distribution of the regions will be offered, I must point out a number of significant shortcomings. First of all, in Kurzeme administrative region must be the city of the republic or the capital city of Ventspils. The administrative region of Zemgale must be the city of the republic or the metropolitan city of Jelgava. But, in turn, the administrative district of Riga (Thank you, Mr Kazinovsky!) - really that's what could form the basis of the third reading. I will read: “The Republic of Latvia Riga, the Republic of Lithuania Jurmala, Ādažu novads, Ķekavas novads, Mārupes novads, Salaspils novads, Ulbrokas novads”. That could be very good in terms of territory, but I hope that we will still have a debate, a very bright and sharp discussion on whether, however, we could not leave the current Rough Districts...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U282	Mrs Lochmele-Lunova, your time is up. Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U283	... looks like they are self-sufficient at present.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U284	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U285	Colleagues! If you can see it, there's a material... Latvia, if... So on the same level, the regions and the cities of the republics. At the same level. Let us see how it is in Lithuania. There is no division in Lithuania - cities of the republic, municipalities... They have three divisions, one after the other. I do not believe that Latvia has to go along the Lithuanian road, but that Lithuania has three levels of governance, not one level of governance, and with this proposal I call, colleagues, on you to make a choice. The Commission has now made a choice in both directions. Both directions - both down and up. My next proposals will be on a downward path, but there are also proposals on a upward path. I call on the Saeima to state in just one proposal what the general decision of the Saeima is. Are we really going to have to submit some kind of draft decision on how to work for that commission? If you want to achieve a good result, this choice must be made - either up or down.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U286	Thank you, Mr. Valaiņš. The debate is closed. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U287	Dear Members, For once again. Latvia receives Structural Funds all this time only to the extent... just because these regions are lagging behind. For a moment we imagine that there is no Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme, Latgale in Latvia. How much will Riga and Pierīga get? Very, very little. In fact, I will honestly say, in this case, the regions are being stolen. Will we keep stealing... if we leave only one region - Latvia? So remember! Those who do not vote for the creation of the regions will continue to steal the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U288	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U289	Perhaps such a philosophical thing has been missing in this debate. Why two levels? Not a goal or a different one. This is all the task that any country that is not, say, a city state like Luxembourg, or otherwise, a country with a wider territory... two cases must be dealt with at the same time. On the one hand, it is necessary to ensure effective public governance, which requires a sufficiently large administrative division - small but large areas. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure a democratic process: people's involvement, the right to vote, the right to represent themselves and to ensure this democratic process. And these two things must be balanced. It is precisely those countries that can balance that today are examples of successful development. Not everywhere... There is no magic wand, each country has its own history, its own territory, its own population density, there is nothing to take and copy directly. There is therefore no completely identical structure anywhere. And if we now look at what is actually being offered, no matter how we are deceived by the 70s and 75s proposals, which will be the second level, everything else is actually talked about the first level, one level. And where is the problem? That 40 units of the same level are still too effective for the exercise of power, but it is already too much for major democratic processes. And that's why there are two levels. There is one high level of effective public administration and a much more detailed level below which people can draw closer to their municipality. No one understands better the social and cultural issues of the people of Paradise, as they understand it on the ground. But yes, major infrastructure projects should be planned at a much higher level. That is what we are talking about. Therefore, two levels.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U290	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U291	I wanted to add a little to my colleague Didji Schmidt. As I said in my first speech this morning, I believe that two levels of governance would be necessary in Latvia, and in fact we should have started this debate at all, how this reform will be implemented - on the same level or on two levels. We started from the other end. And two levels for a very simple reason. Because the so-called lowest level is necessary both to deal with everyday economic issues and... both those questions related to even such elementary things as to arrange for a song festival, such as driving, this is very important. Thus, at the first level, this management takes place on the principle that the so-called parishor knows and knows every house, every street, problems that are in his parish on the spot. The second level, in turn, is the level that ensures the performance of public functions, health... access to health services, education, infrastructure development and everything else. Such an approach would be something that we would actually have... within this two-day period with which we should have started - with this discussion, not leave it at some point in the end, but just like starting it once. And when we have agreed what our first and second levels of municipalities would be, we could look to the next questions. That would be only logical and understandable. On the second level, 40 municipalities are definitely too many. They are even less needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U292	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please... on behalf of the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U293	Yeah. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U294	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal was rejected. Mr. Plies, one minute! We cannot continue. The Bureau has a new application from Members Linda Liepiņa, Didžas Šmita, Armands Krauze, Māra Kučinska and Julia Stepanenko asking the Saeima to declare a break at its meeting on 5 March this year... from 15.20 a.m. to 10.03.2020 p.m. Name for motivation to Member Viktor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U295	I am referring once again to the adjournment. This is... further clarification of the position-position relationship. However, once again, I appeal to the group leaders to find a common understanding of how we continue constructively these... further to the debate. I draw attention to the fact that at the moment we have debated many fundamental proposals, but the main proposals, very many important proposals on costs... who will pay for this reform, for example, they are still in front, including forms of governance, all in front of it. Among other things, it is still important about how the administration will be organised, for example, in newly created large districts - Rezekne, Daugavpils. That calls for a discussion...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U296	Mr Valaiņš, this is not about your application, which you are now telling us.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U297	Yeah. I call for a break so that group leaders can agree, as it should be in the normal parliament. This should not happen between me and some other Members who are now trying to talk here about how we will continue to work. Objectively it must be... Group leaders... It is their duty - also to take care of what is happening here. And let the leaders of the groups agree how we will continue to work. We stand for an extension of the time for the debate. Once again, I would like to stress the fact that (Interior call.) there will be very important proposals. I give one example: how Daugavpils and Daugavpils regions will continue to work after this reform. There's something to talk about. And, colleagues, it goes through in two minutes - I think it's going to be very unconstructive. And you'll get a very incoherent conversation. In a normal parliament... I really regret that it wasn't done on the long break when it was an hour... everyone had to go eat, do something else, but now he could logically talk about these questions. Everything's hanging in the air right now. You receive regular applications from us. The order roll of the Saeima allows us to do so, so we can drag it long and long. Who, then, is interested in normal consideration of the draft law? Are we or you? It looks like we're more interested at the moment than you. We call on you simply to negotiate. Let's take a break. The chair of a sitting may declare a break at any time, the heads of political groups are... Well, almost there (interim.) in the Chamber, but we simply need to agree on this. I do not see any insurmountable obstacles. I understand, Jutta Strike wants the opposition to have less to talk. Well, colleagues! Sit down and agree on how we will organise further work, because by choosing such a path you can see our abilities and skills to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Saeima's order line. We can use them, turn on the next speed and submit such proposals in every three minutes. It will not honor us, nor you, but somehow this relationship must be settled.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U298	“Pret” has applied to speak to Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U299	Hello! Interruptions must take place only at the time prescribed for them. It is necessary to work as long as possible, more actively and preferably tomorrow, on Saturday. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. I. Zarins: “What are you doing?” ) Therefore, this is not to be supported. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call: “Activate! Activate it!’ (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U300	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal was rejected. We shall continue to examine the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U301	35. The proposal submitted by Member Viktors Valainis provides that the Cabinet of Ministers determines the boundaries of the cities and municipalities of the Republic and also provides for the establishment of the boundaries of the municipal council of the municipality to the town and municipalities of the municipality. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U302	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U303	Colleagues! This proposal, on my part, is a certain compromise proposal for this dispute that is taking place today in the Saeima on previous proposals. Read the following: “The Cabinet of Ministers issues regulations setting the boundaries of the cities and municipalities of the Republic, the municipal council of the municipality determines the boundaries of the municipality and municipalities of the municipality.” This is an example of democracy if we were to set limits in this way. Colleagues! There is neither ZZS nor harmony in the Cabinet. You could agree yourself on the criteria, the coalition itself, and on the decision of the government to determine the criteria and the boundaries of the cities of the republic... who will be, who will not be. I call on you to take your own responsibility with this proposal, otherwise not here in the Saeima. Here in the Saeima, it happens that there's something stupid about you here -- Rēzekne or Jelgava, which's bigger, which's smaller, actually... There's no real common denominator. Support this proposal, take this responsibility for government and government. The fact is, it will already be difficult to motivate politically in the government. The identification of these cities was, unfortunately, political, no matter how we could say that service reports were examined at the government sitting, no service reports were examined at the government sitting. At the meeting of the Government, it was simply voted for the addition of Liepaja, Rezekne, Daugavpils without any argumentation. I call on the government to develop criteria, to develop what these cities of the Republic will be here. And remove the concerns about the political, take it on your own! Here, where I have tabled such a proposal. Take this responsibility, develop criteria, and you will not have any opposition there! You will be able to make this decision yourself. Where's the problem, colleagues? Look into this proposal, clearly black on white written. Take this responsibility for yourself!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U304	Thank you. Mr. Valaiņš, your time is up. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U305	I support Mr Valaiņa's explanation and proposal. And I call you all again. Members of the coalition, as you can see, I am very conscious of this time, after this break, in the small dune, also giving some hint that we have tried, for our part, to come to you towards constructive action. It is time to show you that you are also able to work constructively. All the proposals do not require long discussions, I agree, but there are proposals where very long discussions are needed, where... especially with regard to certain very contentious divisions, as you have anticipated. I'm calling... I understand that we may want to ignore someone or something else, but I am convinced that there are also people in this Chamber who want to work constructively, there is a common sense and those who understand that, in this situation, what we have also said during a break with individual Members of the position, that both sides have to come up against each other. There can't be one who prays for something or the other's peers. We are all forming the work of this Parliament, and I call on you, however, not to make us continue to write these applications. I really call you to that. If you don't hear it, we won't leave anything else, we just don't have other instruments to show you. And the other is a legal case. In this way, you are actually giving more and more arguments so that those who want to challenge it can challenge it. And that's not what anyone needs. I think that's why...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U306	Thank you, Mr. Gobzem. Your time for the debate has come to an end. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U307	This proposal by Mr Valaiņa is very good. I'll remind you. It establishes that the Cabinet of Ministers issues regulations establishing the boundaries of the cities and municipalities of the Republic, the municipal council of the municipality determines the boundaries of the municipality and municipalities of the municipality. Why is this proposal very good? I think, despite Mr Kola's ever desire for the Saeima to take full political responsibility for anything. R. Kols: “It’s a state machine - parliamentary!” ) on administrative territorial reform, but I would remind you that all political decisions involve political responsibility at the same time. Of course, political responsibility in our country does not mean anything. That's zero. However, let us also allow the government to assume a part of its responsibility and, of course, let the municipalities, in accordance with the Charter, carry out the functions of self-government at least within the boundaries of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U308	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U309	Colleagues, I understand that this is such a provocative proposal by Mr Valaiņa to wake up at least part of you who have already fallen asleep. I cannot, however, agree with such a proposal that we can entrust the government with setting limits and setting criteria. Because the governments have a short life for us. If one minister may remain in office for a period of one and a half years, he may already be proud to be the leader. And imagine if we switch borders not every few years, but every and a half years, as the ruling coalition will like. So, colleagues... if you do not support Valaini, support my proposal. We leave the criteria in law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U310	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U311	Colleagues, I join the decision. This will be the case when I will also vote like a commission, taking into account... but a little with other arguments. What Mr. Valaiņš offers... if there were no criteria, it would be classic and good. I think... Since reforms are also being made in other countries, the classics are: the criteria and rules for making reform are determined by Parliament, and then you can discuss what they are, and then give the government a map. I understood from Mr. Pavlut, with whom we discussed yesterday why it doesn't do... was the judgment of the Constitutional Court after the previous... that it must be moved to Parliament, but naturally this one that we are now... How does the reform work... it is extremely, extremely difficult, but given that the criteria were also removed from the proposals... And this direction... then give it to all... everything - it is, in fact, no longer possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U312	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U313	I've got... I share, in principle, what Mr Kučinska said, and I did not support this proposal either. Because, although it is true that at present (at least for now) it is clear that this Parliament is not dealing with this most important issue in the country, if - it is not!... Well, we're still building a one-storey house, and then we're gonna build a two-storey house, and finally we're gonna get the basement. That is clear. But the fact that someone... the fact that this Parliament is currently unable to deal with issues, which, by the way, is also confirmed by the shortening of the length of the debate... and not... Because it is the question of how we see them. There's an opposition-position fight, but actually that's something else. This is the most important bill to be adopted by this House. Where would it be a problem to debate it during the full debate every working day or month? Really debate, argue, find the best compromises and solutions in disputes. Some of us have already been marked in these two days. It is absolutely clear that some Members have heard others. If we continued in this way, perhaps during many sittings we would get to the right decision. Where is the problem? Where do we have to rush? But again. That's... if Parliament is not over, it does not mean that Parliament must abandon its fundamental function - to decide what kind of administrative division Latvia will be. Perhaps we should wait for the next parliament, but that does not mean that we have to give back powers from the parliament. You have to get it, or you have to get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U314	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U315	Dear colleagues, This proposal is clearly to be supported, because the basic procedure... the definition of the boundaries of the regions is determined by the law that we are discussing today. That's the point one. In essence, Mr Valaiņa's proposal entails a change of boundaries, which is also a certain problem in the existing legislation. Because if, like in the case of Valmiera, it was necessary to add a small plot of land, it was necessary to adopt the Saeima law, to consider and adopt amendments to the law. That's why the fact that such a function remains for the Cabinet of Ministers... This is not about determining the substance, but about amending it. I believe that this proposal should be supported but clarified to the third reading. And more. A great deal has been said today about the fact that here we are dealing with political decision-making. And in that case, it would be good if the coalition decided to suspend the proceedings of the Order roll until the end of the examination of this bill. (Laughter) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U316	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U317	I will allow myself to disagree with my experienced fellow politicians on this issue and will explain why. Colleagues, also looking at this... Looking at the government... No one has abolished the fact that the State of Latvia has to comply with international agreements. And one of these is the European Charter of Local Authorities. ( Internouncing call.) And in this case, too, the government should look much more at each of these areas when taking this decision. And I don't believe that if the existing local government division had really been evaluated in substance... that we would come to the sort of breakdown that we can now offer. The information report that we have submitted to the government was a pitiful one. And if we look back at previous reforms, merger plans and all the other documents, they were too high. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) To the top of the round!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U318	Thank you. Mr. Valaiņš, your time is up. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U319	There are certainly two things that are killed in politics: lies and arogance. It is the lie here that we will have the second level. At least the drafter (Mr Pouce) is manipulating, lying to you that there will be a second level. I don't know who of you believes in it. Perhaps there are people who really believe in it. We'll all see that. And the second one is arrogance. This is how we treat each other. I am not saying that only the position and the opposition are white and fluffy, but how we treat each other. I very much want us to arrange the country effectively. Just think clean from... or, if not from a national point of view, from a purely political point of view: if we together... and the position would, of course, be the coalition that would be the driving force, or not, you still have more votes... If we were to work together or if you were to develop a project that we, the rest of us, could agree, you would have a bright future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U320	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, what do you want to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U321	As has already been said here, it is indeed stated in the judgment of the Constitutional Court that the decision on the boundaries of municipalities and cities is an exclusive competence of the Saeima. Consequently, this 35th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U322	Members shall not object. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) I have just been told that there is no need for a vote. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Vote? Okay. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for -13, against -55, abstaining. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U323	36. Proposal submitted by...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U324	Mr. Plies, I am sorry. I have one more application from Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Alda Gobzema and Linda Liepiņa asking to declare a break for the session of the Saeima on 5 March this year from 15:48 a.m. until 10 a.m. on 10 March 2020. “About” has applied to speak to Member Didzis Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U325	I think the break... There's a lot of need for a break. In the past, I have said what: we should come together and discuss informally with the opposition how we can lead to a successful national outcome. But there's another one. I have just said myself, during the challenge, and I have offended the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūci, by saying that he is lying about the second level. I think he has to give himself the chance to defend himself, come here, justify how Didzis Schmidt is wrong and see how when building the first floor of the house, the second floor of the house will then be built. And I remember that he also expressed his appreciation for the National Alliance's proposal for a zero level. So the third one will be built, then the cellar. I think it would be right to expect when... I don't know where he is now, but when he has time, he's in Latvia... it is recommended that there should also be a finance minister to tell us about the financial flows in the new regions, the Prime Minister, who should be on the agenda's first question. Because this is the most important reform we are undertaking in this Saeima and, more generally, in recent years. I think it would be just right to take a break, to wait for them in the hall so that they can justify all the lies I may have made against them, if that is the case. That is my request. I think let us respect Mr Puce, who tabled this bill, the government... You have appointed it yourself, trust it. The right of defence should be granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U326	Thank you. ‘ Against” Ms Juta Strīķe, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U327	We work, do and don't make sense. I call for a 'no' vote! ( The transcripts are: “Culack on the eye! ” ; “Hait!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U328	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -24, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal was rejected. We shall continue to discuss the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U329	Colleagues, 36 of the proposal submitted by Member Viktors Valainis intended to supplement the bill that the administrative centres for the municipality or the parish association are determined by the municipality council itself. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U330	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U331	One or more administrative centres for the municipality and the parish association shall be determined by the municipality council. Why would such a proposal be necessary? Mr. Pucen, you fought so hard for the Land of Lower Courland. You could answer, where will the administrative center be located in the municipality of Lower Kurzeme? The Commission answered us that the administrative centre will be located in Liepaja. Is this the right approach? In my opinion, this does not coincide at all with the meaning of the creation of the municipality of Lower Courland, because the municipality of Lower Courland is a polycentric development region, and there may be several administrative centres in such a region. For example, in the social sphere or education administration. Where will this really be? With this proposal, we would enable such large regions around the major cities or what potential... For example, if we vote in favour of Selia County, create three... possibly three administrative centres where municipal management could be carried out more effectively. In my opinion, this is a welcome proposal, it also shows in a way the desire to strengthen democratic values, as you have not now offered an administrative centre for the Lower Kurzeme region. Therefore, I call on you to support this proposal... and give an opportunity to Lejskurzeme municipality, as well as other regions such as Rēzekne municipality, to determine their own administrative centre, possibly... perhaps even a number of administrative centres, which would be even logical in certain areas. For example, if the National Association supports the creation of the municipality of Selia, then the municipality of Selia will definitely need several administrative centres. At least two.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U332	Thank you. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U333	Yes, I also call for support for this proposal, and it is precisely for this reason that those regions where the city will not be the centre of the district need this polycentric model, and, repeating already some of what Viktor said, I think this example of Selija is also very good. If, however, we want to preserve, in some way, the cultural and historical values and this division, which is the case, let us remember that this is definitely not the case of one city that dominates the centre and that would require several administrative centres. As an example, by the way, in already large regions, where there is no city in the center, we can also mention Jelgava County... When talking to the population, they say that they are very pleased, because you see, Members and management do not have to take care of the city centre, but Members and local authorities think about several centres. They are also trying to develop these centres, and that seems right to me... than everything moves to one center and forgets what is further from the center that is outlying. And I think that such an opportunity must be given so that citizens really feel more concerned about them than just being centred on everything. And so please support this proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U334	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U335	This proposal, tabled by Viktors Valainis, is an attempt to correct the process that took place before the Ministry presented this draft law when several municipalities referred to insufficient consultation with municipalities. Because it was during the work of the commission that certain local authorities of Selija, who expressed their willingness to cooperate, were given a very short time to set up the municipality of Selija (in my opinion, it was one week) to agree on who... the administrative centre to be chosen. The offer was Aizkraukle, Jēkabpils, or some other option. The municipalities met together and agreed that this would really be a different option and offered the Guest. The Commission rejected this. That's how: we didn't listen to the municipality before we drafted this bill, we didn't listen to the municipalities when the commission was working. And today you have the opportunity to listen to local governments and the views of their citizens and correct the situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U336	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U337	The proposal is acceptable. It is only normal and logical that the municipality itself and the county management itself determine where the most logical place for the administrative centre is. Because there people know more about how life is organized. This is linked to the organization of life. Because now, if we asked a question here, in the hall, for those sitting here or for society as a whole... Well, that's... it is a very simplified issue like an example, but still so. Where is the historical centre of Jurmala? Where is the historical... or Saulkrasti: where is the historical center? ( The utterance: “Crimuld! ”) ) What exactly is it? And here we end up... We face the problem that... probably the administrative center of Jurmala and Saulkrasti - the Baltic Sea, isn't it? But people themselves, organizing their lives... they know best how to do it. It's not that someone is smarter, which from the edge will tell you that you will have an administrative center there and then you... then you will work better. In fact, I think it's only logical that its everyday life introduces its adjustments and that it determines the place... around which place, let's say, all that's the greatest life in the melt. And that is why I feel that such a proposal is welcome, it is logical, it is understandable. And, after all, neither the Saeima nor government has to regulate everything in every person's daily life. In fact, the Saeima and the government should interfere as little as possible in people's daily lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U338	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U339	I would also, colleagues, call for support for this proposal by Mr Valaiņa, because there is a significant difference between the administrative and development centre. It does not have to be mandatory for the same, especially when you have already offered to separate the large city from its regions, - Rēzekne, Daugavpils. Center for Development... Liepāja... The centre of development will continue to be the city. But why do you also want to force the administrative centre to maintain it there? Well, for example, why can the administrative center of Liepaja municipality not be Durban, Grobiņa or someone else from the local centres, which would be logical? If they organise their own farm, municipal work, then one of these centres also has an administration unit, not now they will have to pay money for maintaining the office in the center of Liepaja and all of them must eventually go to Liepaja... until then the Liepaja Centre. Think about administration... Actually, I think we have to think... that we should also look at examples from neighbouring countries. Well, perhaps it was not too successful that Estonia's goal was set, but Estonia's attempt to move one ministry to the regions, but generally, in Riga too, for example, the population is not so large and the number of employees is less... We should think about how we could also move public administrations to regions closer to the population, closer to where people need jobs and where they could do the same work better and cheaper as the Rigans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U340	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U341	This proposal would not be acceptable, but could be supported on another issue. In one small part, the municipality could itself define its own administrative centre, but only one because there is a difference, whether it is an administrative centre or a customer service centre. And that doesn't mean that a person needs to get all the services in an administrative centre, and maintaining a number of administrative centres means that you, Members, would go to one place, to another, or to one committee would work in one place and another. Then we would also transfer the example of Brussels and Strasbourg to Latvia. And the second story is that this proposal also includes the administrative centres of the parish associations, which in my opinion is also not true. And it's not... such should not be particularly necessary. And a story about Lower Courland. Yeah, they're just... I met representatives from Lower Courland. And they discussed this possibility for the administrative centre to be set up in Grobina, and I think it is not bad if they can agree on it. But if they can't agree, because someone will find it hard to reach Grobiņš, then nothing bad will happen if it is in Liepaja. The key, so that it can be said, is to understand where it is most convenient, simple and safe to organise it. But in that performance, we should have several administrative centres... This would in no case be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U342	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. ( The transcripts are: “Watch, ner! ” (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U343	Yes, Mrs Indricksons, there will also be the next proposal. There, your concerns have been resolved. I would call for this to be supported. But about this I would like to say that Latvia's wealth is precisely in our diversity, in the diversity of parliament and in the diversity of our regions. And that's just what all of us... complement each other on a daily basis. But if we look at the counties... There is no analysis of Liepaja, Lower Courland, there I agree with you. Whatever the case, perhaps people could also be trusted there. And if they decide to do so, they will be elected citizens who will decide: one or more of these administrative centres... Let them trust. But objectively, if we get to support the creation of the municipality of Selia, logically, there will be no city of Jacob, no... as a development centre or administrative centre, there... for successful management, it is already clear there that there should be at least two administrative centres. And the territory is simply very, very long.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U344	Thank you, your time is up. Let us continue the debate after a break. Please register the Members. The name of the Member, Maria Golubeva, to read the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U345	Members have not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dūklavs, Andrejs Judins, Artuss Kaimiņš, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Ināra Mūrniece, Linda Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Katrīna... I am sorry, Karina Sprūde, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vitenbergs and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U346	Interruption until 16.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U347	Dear colleagues, Time to take up positions and continue working. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “We can start!” ) Can we start? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) I think that if we were to make a registration, then the quorum would hardly be right now. Then you can't. We cannot, in fact, begin. Maybe I'm so loud... Dear colleagues, please go back to the Chamber and take your seats! Not yet... I have one application. Wait a second! Dear colleagues, please have seats in the Chamber. Please register the Members! Please get the result! 63. We can start. We are continuing the debate. We are continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U348	So, colleagues, we're on the 36th proposal. It has been tabled by Member Viktors Valainis and this proposal provides for the addition of the fourth paragraph of Article 5 in the form of one or more... That's what we're new about... the administrative centres for the municipality or the parish association shall be determined by the municipality council. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U349	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. The debate was closed. There is wrong information. Bad information.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U350	I call on you to vote in favour of...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U351	I think one speaker had to speak. I have to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U352	Colleagues, again. This proposal was not supported by the Commission. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U353	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “The opposition has gone home!” ) The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U354	The 37th proposal is also submitted by Member Viktoras Valaiņš and provides for the wording of Rule 5, which deals accordingly with the establishment of administrative territories under the Saeima's law... shall be determined by the Saeima in an annex to this Law and shall also determine how the administrative centres shall be determined. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U355	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U356	Yes, colleagues, this 37th proposal is another proposal for how internal administrative areas could be constructed, and envisages that... as in the current law, the entities shall be determined by the Saeima in the Annex to this Law. And special colleagues from the National Association - here is no longer this association of municipalities... associations of municipalities, apologies. And such a proposal could, in principle, facilitate the designation of one or more administrative centres in Selia, for example. In the sense of this law, we have developed a number of territories with a very large territorial division. And if we support this, it would be as an example of democracy to trust the newly elected big councils and allow them to set their own administrative centres. If, at this point in time, as you said here, something unchristian is voted, then this proposal would have given this confidence to new ideas. And the new councils could identify one or more administrative centres after the new sites are established. Mrs Indicice, this proposal is in line with your vision. I explained very well why.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U357	Thank you. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U358	This proposal is partly consistent, but I cannot support it because I do not support several administrative centres in the territory of one municipality.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U359	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U360	But, colleagues, I don't understand anything. What's wrong with having a number of administrative centres? This decision is of the thoughts themselves - of the thoughts themselves! - a decision has been taken to... This proposal could entrust the Councils with adopting it themselves. They are elected by the public. And I don't think they could make decisions that citizens would be against. This would be a chance... It's just a chance for them to set several... and in certain areas it might be logical. If we're talking about the Land of Lower Courland, which you mentioned... You've spoken to the representatives. I have also spoken to representatives, I remember how, at the beginning, this offer made them that there could even be two or three administrative centres... split the municipality... be guided by the division of functions between municipalities. One centre takes care of, organises the administration of education, in other places perhaps more about social issues. It would now be such a logical choice for elected municipal members.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U361	Name to Member Uldis Augums. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U362	Dear colleagues, especially those from Zemgale who know the situation, for example, in Dobele. A. Geidan: “Who is there?” ), where the municipality of Dobele is located Auce! Then you know the city of Auces, which is now the administrative centre of the municipality of Auce and located 45 kilometres from Dobele. And it would only be logical if the municipality had the opportunity to define the city of Auces as an administrative centre. I would therefore call for this logical proposal from Mr Valaiņa to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U363	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U364	It really is a very interesting proposal not only from... Let us say so as to increase and multiply the range of services provided, but also to address some political issues. For example, the UKP and Development/Par have been elected in one council! , and they are groaning with each other, well happens. In this case, two administrative centres can be set up, where one would have a BIP, the other would have a Development/About!. And then there is peace and amen! (Applause) Depp. A. Gobzem: “Sergey, good!” ) Very interesting proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U365	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U366	We have recently debated whether the Cabinet could set any limits in the city. We stayed with the Saeima to determine. It is then the responsibility of the Saeima to determine the administrative division and the boundaries of municipalities. That's it. Further, municipalities are entitled to decide how they organise their lives. Logically, because that's exactly those two days that have shown that we are smarter than those people who can decide in local governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U367	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please! For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U368	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U369	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal was rejected. Mr. Plies, one minute! Two Members' submissions have been received. Honourable Members! I will present you with these two submissions in the order in which they were submitted. Members Raivis Dzintars, Atis Zakaistovs, Ainars Latkovskis, Daniels Pavļuts and Juta Strīķe ask to continue the sitting on March 5, until 6 p.m., then to announce a break by 10 a.m. on March 10. Are there any objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There is no objection. Members Daniels Pavļuts, Ainars Latkovskis, Atis Zakaistovs, Arturs Toms Plēšs, Atis Lejiņš, Ieva Krapāne, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Rihards Kozlovskis, Aldis Adamovičs and Inese Voika are asking the following period of debate: three minutes for the first time, and one minute for the second time for the draft law on March 5th this year. Are there any objections? ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ) To be put to the vote. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 1, for - 1. ( Internouncing call.) Your proposal is accepted. Do you need five minutes to switch mode? One minute. Maybe we can get acquainted with the bill... Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U370	38. The proposal was submitted from the Legal Office. It laid down the procedures for determining the boundaries of the administrative territory and the principles for amending it. This proposal was partly supported because the commission responsible formed a new Article 6 in this case, where all these principles were included (we have already discussed this issue, including some other proposals).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U371	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U372	This proposal by the Saeima Legal Bureau... That is the third most interesting part of this proposal. Colleagues, I invite you to learn about it! Thus: “The interests of the citizens of the state and municipality, the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers and the decisions of the councils of interested municipalities shall be assessed when merging or dividing the administrative territory, as well as changing its boundaries.” So we're looking at it. And there are cases when... In other words, these arrangements are intended to actually introduce a new criterion. This is a criterion for a single area: first and foremost, a single area. At present, I think there are two municipalities that are not in a unified area. This must, of course, be put together. But the question... The next proposal, which is already from the Minister responsible, also includes an assessment of these citizens and their particular territories... These are the decisions. The question is: why did we not do so before this draft law was presented to the Saeima? Members of the Saeima had not had the opportunity to get acquainted with decisions of local governments and citizens. More! No evaluation of the satisfaction of the public with the services provided and the quality of the services provided... and the service provided, overall assessment of the functions as such. This proposal is correct. And the only question is why it has not been followed up so far. In the Commission we worked - the same municipality of Ventspils and Ventspils. Was submitted from Ventspils City Municipality... was an application - an assessment of citizens' satisfaction with the services provided. A very wide-ranging assessment. It was only presented in the form of a presentation, there were no conclusions, no views on it were heard. VARAM had in no way recorded or informed about the opinions of municipalities, the satisfaction of citizens with the level of services... some sort of appreciation of the satisfaction of the population. This proposal is correct. I call for its partial support, as has already been mentioned here. But remember that people's interests must be listened to and... Unlike other laws... citizens must also give a clear answer why you have not listened to them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U373	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U374	Colleagues, I'm not going to bother you long. I wanted to change after thanking that part of the coalition - KPV LV, Development/About! and the New Unity - that you came to compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U375	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U376	I have to say that Gobzem got his words out of his mouth. I also wanted to thank you for getting common sense up until the end of the week. Regarding the proposal. Undoubtedly, this proposal is very valuable and very correct and should be supported. I think we should just think about the fact that when it comes to valuation... evaluation, in the absence of specific procedures, is always subjective. Therefore, perhaps it would not be wrong to think at the third reading about the fact that the Cabinet could also lay the foundations for the evaluation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U377	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U378	Yes, I will also take the opportunity to thank all my colleagues for extending the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U379	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U380	This proposal was partly supported and included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U381	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U382	Also 39. - The proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Jurs Pūce, was partly supported by the Commission and included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U383	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U384	Yeah... What, then, is Minister Puce himself offering, who unfortunately is not here today? I would like to draw attention to the sixth part of this proposal: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall establish the procedure for re-allocation of municipal institutions, financial, property, rights and obligations in case of changes or division of boundaries of administrative territories.” And this bill, which has an annex, divides administrative territories. Not only are they combined, but they are also divided into several cases. In the present case, that provision is not, in substance, fulfilled. The change of borders is already a fine thing, but if the territories themselves are being changed, it is starting to divide, then these economic issues, property issues, are becoming particularly topical, because people's money, resources are being invested there. Currently prepared annex to the draft law in a number of cases... And here I have to express great regret that this case has not been done in some cases. This draft law contains only one territory of a municipality, which is divided into several pieces. It is the municipality of Aglona. I would like to say thank you to all the municipalities of Latgale. In two areas where local government division took place... the division of the territory administered, where it can be seen that the municipalities also agree with it and see some funds, the division mechanism. But there are cases that could cause very great problems, and therefore, when I look at the appendix, colleagues, I will ask you to remember... For example, by separating Skulte parish from Limbažu municipality, in this case no mechanism is offered, which... It should be clear at once how... what the financial and property redistributive mechanism of this municipality will be. If we remember previous administrative territorial reform... Everyone is talking about it being established at third reading, it was. But at third reading, it was divided rather than merged. But all the draft law had concrete merger plans, including these very sensitive issues. And all those who were in Saulkrasti district to the public meeting, I thought they were convinced of the sensitive questions they were.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U385	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U386	Two things. First. It is good that Mr Puce has awakened and tabled this proposal, but to be honest, it had to be done by the Ministry when he presented the draft law for consideration at the Saeima. And another moment. Given that if we are talking about reform not as a theoretical material, but as a compilation of practical action... set and work... works as such, in this case it would be very useful, wise and necessary if this order were to appear at the depths of the ministries until the third reading of these draft laws at the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U387	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U388	This proposal, 39, was partly supported and included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U389	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U390	Proposal 40 is a proposal from the committee responsible, which, as I have mentioned several times before, provides for the establishment and amendment of administrative areas. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U391	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U392	Yes, absolutely right! The two previous proposals have been brought together in the Commission's proposal, but here too I am forced to point out that the principles of good lawmaking are respected. When you discuss such matters, this... In principle, a new version was created, which was not presented to all municipalities at the time when they were invited to the Commission, because this happened, let us say, during the work process. But in the work process, when deciding on such issues, I think that good legislative practice would be that all these municipalities would also have the opportunity to get acquainted with these proposals, and so to express their views on these proposals. Although this proposal has been supported by the Commission, I cannot agree that the principles of good governance have been respected here. There was quite a mess in the work of the Commission. To understand how we get to this editorial... You know for yourself, the pages were distributed: "Re, where will this new proposal be!" There was no such logical, correct, thoughtful action here; there was no more confidence in listening to what the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development (VARAM) says, but I could not say that the Ministry fully trusts me in the course of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U393	Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U394	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to some things before you vote on this proposal. First of all, he shows and makes clear what the Prime Minister said: how will we change after the reform... Let us change the municipalities as we wish, because this chapter will allow us to do everything afterwards. In addition... So the name has changed its meaning. There will be no more talk of border changes, but of the establishment and modification of administrative areas. This is justified by the last point: that changes to the borders should no longer address the issue of local authorities, finances and so on. Imagine the situation that we will now approve municipalities, which will then be able, without criteria, to change what they want. That is what this point is saying at the moment. And our work, our fight for those municipalities that will be listed in the annex, is totally in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U395	I closed the debate. Please! On behalf of the Commission, Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U396	I note that paragraph 1 of this Article stipulates that the Saeima shall have competence to define the territorial units of the municipalities as well as the administrative centres. We had a wide-ranging discussion on this proposal and, in order to simplify the text of the draft law, it was not divided into separate articles, but all these criteria and procedures relating to the article were included in one article. And this proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U397	Are Members in favour? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U398	The next one is the 41st proposal tabled by Member Maris Kučinskis, which provides for the deletion of the provisions of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U399	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U400	Yes, colleagues! This is a precedent in which... I would now be happy to withdraw my proposal from this troupe, but I cannot do it because it has been supported. (Laughter) Depp. J. Strike: Good proposal! ) Considering that at the time I submitted it... It was our conversation... and was complex with the new criteria presented by Mr. Valaiņš... and then these incompletely designed ones, which were at the time of their submission, were actually not really meaningful. And then I'm just using this moment - to show a vision of how it could also look... returning from one of the previous speeches to the fact that the criteria still need to be. And in reality, the right model is if the Saeima discusses here the criteria for regions, which – large cities – give the task to the Cabinet of Ministers to stick to it, and then the Cabinet also works, making criteria – consistent. It is also worth putting in this dot, which I'm talking about, that too, if the big one... If, for example, the city is surrounded by a territory like Valmiera or Jēkabpils, but its mass is large enough (the parliament has agreed what the big city is then), then we too are clearly aware of what the rules are and who then becomes the big cities. But now, of course, what is about this withdrawal and what... The commission must have done lightly, too... of course, these criteria... require them to be removed from the track. My call is, however, to work on other criteria for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U401	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U402	Yes, the situation is emerging. From this point of view, Maris Kučinskis is responsible for excluding the criteria; this, of course, is already being used by politicians. But, of course, this whole argument is to be heard. In a way, the logic is also for this proposal, because, in the design of previous reforms, really a large part of the regions did not meet the criteria, but they still... If there are any criteria in the law that govern the legislator, then he will then have the opportunity, also making something outside the criteria, to justify it separately. But where is the main problem in this bill? The main problem is that the only criteria... You did not support the proposals I had previously put forward on how to create... about the cities of the Republic, about the counties, the counties... Well, different criteria were proposed. They were not supported. And that is, unfortunately, the only opportunity for Members of the Saeima to present these criteria. There is no other option at all. Because the other option... There's what's left now, actually left, in the annotation. The only criterion, which is - is the centre of development left, single territory, no other criterion of substance. And all the others - the numerical criteria - are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the bill. Annotation of the draft law by members of the Saeima is not possible in this process. That is why, in my opinion, this proposal would not be acceptable at the moment, but in order to remain in the text of the framework law, at least some vision that we could still change, improve, offer some other vision. Because if you're also guided by this development center criterion... There's one of my next proposals... It's already... The map in the Annex also proposes to violate it in some way. And normal... in a normal process, in order to be able to agree on any normal decision that would not be based solely on political considerations... Unfortunately, this is what the process has done at the moment - there are mostly political considerations, less rational considerations, and many questions left unanswered. I would call for this proposal from Member Maris Kučinskis, although logical, not to be supported at the moment because of the above arguments.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U403	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U404	Good evening, colleagues! We have, of course, heard both yesterday and today on the basis of "Development/About!" address a number of criticisms about the absence of these criteria, about their exclusion from the law. Well, you see, here Mr Valaiņa has already noted that we will probably note that this proposal has been tabled by Mr Kučinski. In this case, I do not think it as a accusation; I found it as a fact. Our party, the association, will vote in favour of this proposal together with the Commission, as we do in all the proposals. Our association is voting with the Commission on all the proposals! We respect the work done by the Commission. But, at the same time, I will take this opportunity to say that I really hope that both Mr Kučinski, who had voted in favour of the reform in 2008 in the past... And if the FAO has also stated today that it is about reform, about rapid reform, I would like to see it also in work, and would call for support for what has been decided by the Commission not only by the coalition parties, but also by others as far as you can and also for the final result of the reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U405	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U406	Speaking about speed, the Germans have a good saying - to the Langs, aber gut. But in this case, maybe... Mr Paviluta, let us be clear: not your group is voting as a commission, but the committee is voting as your group. That is more accurate. With regard to this proposal. Unfortunately, it is one of the great problems of these tables, that the order of proposals and the debate on them... arranged in such a way that support for one proposal may conflict with what is then seen and supported. That's why I personally think... When the President of Latvia (not this one, but one of the previous) wrote the idea to the Saeima in his letter that he could perhaps look at the possibility to hold two second readings, it had great practical meaning. Perhaps this mechanism, too, on important issues (I underlined - on very important issues!) would be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U407	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U408	While working in the Commission, there was indeed a need for some reference points for decision-making. And given that we were working until 18.00 today, but we will continue our work on Tuesday... and, I hope, we move on Tuesday to the proposals that affect specific municipalities and their territories... and, given the very, very large number of proposals, my recommendation to the Commission to add and send to each Member, because we are working on such profiles in the Commission... they were data for each of the newly established municipalities, where there were also maps to make it easier for you to orient and not sit all the sitting on Google Maps, and to make it obvious. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “ Electronicly! For God's sake, no paper!” ) So for me, to help Members make the right decisions, send each of the future municipal profiles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U409	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U410	Dear colleagues, I have really also studied a great deal of European experience, as is the case in other Member States of the European Union. What about the criteria? At regional level, for example, you know that up to now there have been three criteria: the population, the size of the territory and also the standard of living, which has been characterised by per capita gross domestic product; that was also the case, for example, in terms of financing within the European Union... to what extent the region needs to allocate this funding. This is about the European Union, so there are criteria. In Latvia... even the smallest division... in counties... However, those criteria would be necessary. I just want to say something like that. Perhaps another criterion, which has not been mentioned at all so far, when discussing both the Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform and elsewhere... Given that in Latvia very much land and forests belong to foreigners, it is possible that perhaps foreigners... should also introduce this criterion, perhaps Swedes or Norwegians should also participate, decide on those properties and districts, and further participate in the management of our regions with large assets. For example, there is Ludza in Latgale, where three... Two... in fact one third was, now almost half of the property is no longer owned by Latvian citizens... and the farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U411	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U412	I think Mr Kučinski made his argument quite clear for this proposal. And I call on Mr. Pavilata to listen to what he said. He did not agree with the criteria that you had proposed, so he also put forward a proposal to exclude them. And there were my proposals with alternative offers. On the reform as a whole, Mr Pavilut, I would ask you... There's all the opportunities - all the opportunities! - that the full composition of the STECF will support this reform. All options! There are proposals from the FAO Group on which... We invite you to discuss them respectfully. And then we could also see that this reform could be supported in general. These were also submitted at second reading. Pay attention to them! That is what I have said on several occasions, and I can repeat it at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U413	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U414	Yes, Mr Pavļuta, I said yesterday from the troupe that we are in favour of reforms, but - reforms that are logical, based on criteria that are acceptable and debated in society. In the previous reform, too, it was the same that the reform did not lead to us being able to confirm it as it was proposed. It's the same now. If you call on us to support this draft law at second reading, then... There are, of course, some of these circumstances or some questions where we do not share our thoughts. If we can resolve these issues, then, of course, there is no problem for us to support administrative territorial reform. But let us be consistent in this proposal! If you call us to support it, don't hold back and don't go... other principles... to what is decided on by the Commission... But if Mr Kučinski does not have the opportunity to withdraw this proposal at the moment - it would be logical - then we would also call for this bill to be arranged, voting against Mr Kučinski's proposal, which... It would not be right for me, as leader of a political group, to call, but there is now a situation. And I think we have now proven that we are sufficiently constructive.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U415	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U416	Dear President, Honourable Members! To a certain extent, I also agree with Mr Kučinski in this case. It has become obsolete. But perhaps for other reasons, as some have said here... Because one of the criteria for us was the population in the Pierjai areas. There were 15 thousand... I had a proposal that 20 thousand, the commission rejected. But we need to change this situation to the third reading... the way in which the commission examined it today. Here you can meet... I looked there. Let us say, the European Commission's view of Latvia, where territorial reform is mentioned. You will see that the average region, or... Let's say, the size of this administrative area is the optimal... For Latvia 50 thousand as such. Why? I'll tell you. I have just seen that Eurostat has calculated that by 2030 the number of inhabitants in Latvia in municipalities will decrease and also in parishes will be 20 percent compared to 2013. So in 17 years, 20 percent. And such parishes, or... regions such as Ludza... From 22 600 will be 18 thousand, Livani - from 10 800 will fall to 8640. So, obviously, there must be a criterion. And the worst thing is the situation with the parishes. You know that in Latvia there is a parish with 186 inhabitants - Kalncempu parish in Alūksne municipality. Lazduleja Prize Municipality - 274... also in Latgale... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So these criteria must not be just pious... how it has been recorded here, but obviously for the third reading we have to develop them all over Latvia, because without these criteria we can get nothing. And if we develop these criteria, then this same map, where we have... Let's say, if we watch - Rezekne novads and Ludza... There will then be only 52,000 in one region and only 40,000 in 2030. It is therefore obvious that these areas need to be increased in order to get some sort of this optimal population. So this... it has simply lost its meaning at the moment. You could agree, everything was right, but it must be much more serious, the criteria must be, and they must be drawn up for the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U417	I closed the debate. Please! On behalf of the Commission is Arthur Tom Plese.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U418	In the Commission, we had a wide-ranging debate on these rules for establishing regions, because the Legal Bureau had presented its opinion, and this in this respect coincided with the proposal put forward by Member Kučinska that, in substance, such rules, as we have already discussed in the past, are political and have no legal weight in that respect. Thus, the 41st proposal tabled by Mr Kučinska was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U419	Members agree? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 18, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U420	42. The proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņš cannot be put to the vote, but the debate is possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U421	We can debate it. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U422	Although the 42nd proposal cannot be voted on because of your previous vote, there are criteria which make examination of the annex to the draft law very difficult. This is one of them. It also provides that the area of the municipality, with the exception of the municipalities of Pierīga, ‘is a regional or national development centre defined in the national development planning documents (regional policy guidelines or national development plan).’ So the center of development. This proposal, which we already had in the Commission before we looked at the annex, had been excluded from the bill, served as the main prerequisite for not supporting a whole series of... logical territories, where local authorities themselves had agreed on how to make this administrative territory more successful. Let me give you a few examples. the novads of Sēlijas. Seven Municipal Councils agreed on the creation of Selia municipality by common agreement, taking decisions of the Council, representing the interests of their citizens, agreeing on the administrative centre, but the Commission asked them one question: where is your development centre? As if there were no more criteria at that time. So why should these regions have been forced to choose this development centre? What would have been the point? In my view, all newly created sites should automatically be given the status of a development centre. Absolutely everyone. The proposal currently in the annex provides 39 areas with development centres and one without. The territory without the centre of development is the territory of the new municipality of Saulkrasti. But it shows that derogations are possible. But we decided the last day on the Suncratic territory... Commission... and at the end. However, for example, a territory... the novads of Bauskas, to be newly created... and it in a way goes together with Ķekava municipality, i.e. in these regions it was possible to develop it on the councils... Dome decisions, a much more successful territory from the representatives of the Councils than had been offered to the MoEPRD. For example, in Bauska... Remove from Bauska municipality the Vecumnieki and Iecava by adding Baldoni to it, making up three regions of one territory. The only criterion why this could not be done was that there is no development centre there, but no one has to put their development centres there.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U423	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U424	This is one of the most important things that is linked to the reform and which also had to start to a large extent with the reform. The fact that we recognise clearly and clearly that this "9 + 21" model, created by Mr. Kiel at the time, is not effective. This must be reviewed and supplemented. And in this case, the creation of the Saulkrasti region is simply a symbolic step from the point of view that there will really be a new centre of regional importance, and these centres should be located in all regions. The Lower Courland region, such as Aizpute, should also be a centre of regional importance so that we can develop an equivalent territorial development. Of course, Liepaja will be the main economic engine of the municipality of Lower Kurzeme. But if we fail to develop new centres in Latvia, then it is likely that its development will happen again as before. Of course, this proposal is no longer to be put to the vote at the moment if I am not wrong, but it will continue in the context of this administrative territorial reform - that the centres of regional importance should be reviewed. Like centres of national importance.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U425	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U426	Dear colleagues, This article shows, by its very nature, that we will continue to try to follow a pre-set path - without regions. Why? Because so far... I told you earlier that in the large city planning documents and the National Development Plan... Especially at the beginning... They've been plucking these... cities... Like the big cities... and then 21 more development centres receiving specific funding through the National Development Plan. So this order is not changed, it will continue. So lighted up by a known... a part of the funds which, however, does not ensure the uniform development of the whole territory. The principle is that we invest in one city, where we invest again, but the entire territory of the country is not covered by this financial support. So in one place we pay the same taxes as where we don't invest. The logical question arises: what should the support of the citizen, where this funding is not invested from the state, be done? Taxes should be paid in the same way for everyone. What do you mean? The proposal was made (I do not remember who said it) that some certain territories, such as Latgale, should be released at all... or to reduce taxes. This is also the solution because there are several mechanisms to balance territorial development: they are tax incentives, they are grants, such as salaries for teachers, medical practitioners and the like, additional grants for the area. We don't have anything like that. If we do not make this regional development here, where it is the regional development plans that are decisive and part of the National Development Plan, then this reform does nothing - we leave the old order. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U427	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U428	I can only join Mr Dombrava in reviewing... There's such a legend's rumor that Mr. Kiel and the students made the list of these development centres three days, last time he made it, let go! We are currently creating territorial reform on this basis. Colleagues, I would remind you that it was precisely for this reason that a whole series of logical territorial offers were not supported, because they see that there was no... Well, Mr. Wittenberg, where is the development centre in Kandava? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Witenberg: “Centre!” ) In the municipality of Kandava... Zentene. That could be the case, too! That is also possible, I think. But the main thing is that it wasn't... It was this stupid restriction that prevented the creation of normal, coherent areas. I can only congratulate the National Association that they managed to build Saulkrasti according to their insistence...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U429	Thank you, Mr. Valaiņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U430	... but it could have been done without the addition of the cult.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U431	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U432	If you look carefully at the norm that has been included in the draft law, you would see exactly the contradiction that Mr Valaiņš and Mr Kazinovsky pointed out, because there is in fact a great dispute about how certain areas are developing - whether they need any particular development centre. First of all, what is it? When we discussed, for example, Lower Courland, I was also interested in what cities could be in Lower Courland as development centres and in what parameters... What's there is one to develop. For example, when it came to Prieculus, it was noted that in Prieculus, large private homes could be developed for the elderly. It has to be seen whether it really is some kind of economic engine that could make this particular city a centre of development. Secondly, for example, there is researcher Miglava's view that Latvia has only one single development centre at all - and it is Riga. And it's just about what point of view and with what linear we approach everything. Perhaps even Riga is not a centre of development in global terms. But here I could point out to you that it appears in another brackets – “in the territory of the municipality (except in the Pierīgai regions)”. This means that we already allow exceptions in the areas of Pieriga, that there may not be a centre of development there. Although the National Association intends to grant small cities the status of Pierīga City, this does not automatically mean that they become centres for development. This draft law is full of such contradictions. Therefore, when making political decisions, take into account that sometimes there will be no logic in your political decisions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U433	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U434	As Article 6 is excluded, this proposal cannot be put to the vote. Next. 43. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Neither can the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U435	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U436	I was told by what Mr Kirštein said at his speech that we would establish criteria for the third reading. In a way, what you are now offering... this criterion... I am very much in agreement with this because it is much more logical. This constitutes, in principle, a second-level governance model and requires a development centre to be in the second-level management model, which is entirely correct. In the first-level governance model, by setting such a criterion that there is a need for a development centre, we forget at that time what is a municipality at all. I've been asking this very easy question several times at a commission meeting to the official. I asked a simple question: who is the municipality? Can anyone answer what is a municipality within the meaning of this bill? The reply of some officials was quite surprising. But you can... There's a variety of... different views in a way that can be heard. The President has also mentioned some considerations that are a municipality, and there is some explanation, but we can answer the officials that the municipality is part of a public administration system that performs statutory functions. Colleagues! If we approach it, then the municipality is an executive committee. And the executive committees were... For such a definition... It is a decentralised body of public administration, it is not a municipality. It must then be called in any other way, and it must simply be called executive committees of public administration. The President of the Constitutional Court Ineta Ziemele had also given an explanation, explaining very extensively what the municipality is in the sense of the Satversme. And I can only agree to that. But this reform, based directly on the criteria of the development centre, shows that the municipality is perceived only from an economic point of view. Only an economic point of view. In my view, the municipality is much more than just an economic unit. It's a cultural space, it's a local patriotism. The people themselves are able to decide what happens at their homes... It must be assessed after several... different aspects. At the moment, the only assessment that led to this reform is the centre of development. Therefore, Mr Kirštein's proposal for the second level municipalities, where it is imperative that this development centre be located in this large county, is absolutely logical and correct. That's what I can just join. Just the question: how will we reach third reading up to now? Are we going to offer the criteria again? That's my unanswered question. Perhaps Mr Kirštein could explain a little how this work will be organised.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U437	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Do Members object to the unification of the time of the debate? No objection, time merged.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U438	Dear President, Honourable Members! I had the idea at first of 30,000, but I put 20 thousand, which is not the case. Why? I added that if we had set 30,000 criteria, only 11 regions would remain. If we take into account what Eurostat expects - a 20% reduction in the population - the last would be the Talsi region, where it would obviously remain, somewhere in 2030, so that we can create 11 less normal regions. Like the last one. At the same time, we should... There are already, in fact, 10 municipalities in size of one or two parishes, for example, there will be 18 thousand in Ludza... In Krāslava municipality there will be 16 thousand - 2030, in Valka municipality - 13 760, in Aluksne municipality - 11 thousand, in Līvāni municipality - 8600... One municipality. So this criterion... We really cannot implement it at all, so I had written 20 thousand, which is already problematic. And there will have to be thought. Now to the other. I didn't mean the second level, I thought the first level, Mr. Valaiņš. Because, in any case, we have 88 thousand in Jelgava and, let's say, in Ventspils, if we stay, 45 thousand. Then imagine these 11 regions, which will have more than 30,000 inhabitants, and then there remain 10 parishes. That is why I wanted those criteria. But I can see that there's nothing to do with it. A few words about actually that... Now I don't know if it's a tragedy, but about the situation in about 40-50 percent of Latvian municipalities. Why? I followed the history of Pasiene municipality in Pasiene municipality. the novads of Zilupes, It was normal somewhere about seven thousand before the agricultural reform. Why? This has already been mentioned in the previous debate. Because of the economic justification. You can ironize about it, but there was a manor, the Parish Church, which is a UNESCO cultural monument... Could have built a fantastic church. Today we cannot build this for 20 million! One congregation could be built. Mills, sawmills, wool shears, brick kilns, craftsmen, cheesemaking, two raspberries, a breed cattle farm, a horse farm, and so on, let us say, flax, and employed almost seven thousand people. So the first blow is the early reform. Everything is divided into 1,600 farms... single-swine holdings. Imagine 11 hectares and 22 hectares for two horse farms, and a few 9 hectares. Now they're not wearing any farms in 1939. But these people remain. Still in 1949, more than six thousand people still sit. Imagine, there are more than three thousand today in the entire Zilupe district, and then in one parish - more than six thousand. Date of birth: 1949. What's going on? Dispatch. Founding... Imagine the establishment of a sovhoz, led by a partner with three classes. And then five thousand people run away until the awakening stays 1600. Over the years of independence, there are still 600, now there are 560... there will be 300 people there in 2030. This is a typical example of how the Latvian countryside developed. 1600 manors, farms were destroyed. It's good that he didn't burn everything, but now he burned a lot. Score... We can't live in illusions now. We have to make something bigger. It may be that the second level of 100 or more thousand will save something.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U439	Thank you, Mr. Kirstein. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U440	I just wanted to point out a couple of uncertainties, mentioned by Mr Valaiņš, that the only criterion in the Commission when it comes to the territories was the existence or absence of a centre of development. This was not the case because in the Commission we looked at the budgetary opportunities of potential municipalities, their existing cooperation and other aspects that allow sustainable municipalities to be built.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U441	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U442	I support Mr Kirštein's proposal. This is also due to the fact that the regions will be strengthened and the administrative centre is clearly needed. But I had such deep reflections, remembering the sad story of the fact that the representative of VARAM Lasmanis, who described what municipalities would be... He really has this vision... He saw as a narrow public administration function... municipalities - executive committees. I started working in municipalities right when there were these changes from the Soviet system... of which to Executive Committees... Then the parish councils were elected. First local government in the country when the government... It was really hard for it to deal with all the problems, the heritage, the Soviet heritage... Then the municipalities were given very great rights, the power to act on the ground. It was a real municipality. These municipalities remained with great rights and obligations for a long time. The citizens really addressed these issues in confidence, and in fact the whole economic life, everything happened in the municipality - in the parishes - and then also in districts, cities, then (also now) in the new districts. We should not, now, be reduced or reduced at all by creating a new local government, identity, independence, rights and obligations of local authorities. I do not want to return to Soviet times. I know who the executive committee in the parish in Soviet times was, the Communist Party, the CC... in some district committee, in Russian. Is that what we want to go back to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U443	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U444	I am immediately very sorry that this will not be precise on the proposal, but I think it is very important. I think we all see that around 17.00, this concentration is becoming objectively lost... All day long... Well, I was just able to hear... That includes me personally. I would suggest that we... It is not important now - two or three minutes, but that we also hold the next sittings - as usual - until five o'clock so that its debate can be of high quality. One thing. The other thing. Neither did I tell you how others... Thank you very much, my fellow Members, for the ability to get to constructiveism, especially for those who encouraged it, voted in favour of a relative renewal of the time of the debate. With all due respect! We will no longer need to stop. But another thing I... I want to inform you. What is very important is that these circumstances in which we are able to make these constructive decisions are far from simple. And this is confirmed by... I couldn't figure out what we have... Emotional wave... two days. But when there was that dull at the door on a break, I realized there was something... All things must be rationally explained. Seriously! It's salty for fun. According to Lonely Planet data, the “supermonth of worms” will be observed already on March 9, at 19.58 (after Latvian time). ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ) What is “the supermonth of worms ”? It's a full month. All the signs of a classic full-month, which I think we can experience. Supermonth because it's... The moon in the orbit is closest to the Earth, and it will be the greatest full moon before us. But a “worm”! No, why “worm”? Because in March the worms are coming out of the ground. And I quote Lonely Planet: “And they start eating birds.” Imagine that we are able to get to a constructive debate in the context of our greatest full-time! Birds!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U445	Mr. Schmidt, is that about the proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U446	This is my call for us to be able to keep this constructive climate on track. Thank you all once again. And I call that we keep sittings as classic as it should, until five o'clock, so that we can all focus on work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U447	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U448	However, I would like to oppose Mr Ples. I believe that this reform... In the course of the examination, however, only this status of the administrative centre was looked at.... The existence and absence of the status of the development centre was the main reason apart from one issue (for the Saulkrasti). If you think I am wrong, answer me - the budget of the municipality of Selia is in your own ministerial proposal. What is it different from the Livani municipality's overall budget? What makes it different from, for example, the development of the Kraslava budget... the amount of the budget? How does cooperation between municipalities differ? You do not exclude cooperation between municipalities in this case either. Local Government Cooperation... I will name several cities that cooperate with all cities of Latvia. What, then, should they be made together? Is there a whole common cooperation? Latgale municipalities are Latgale... So they have that Latgale representation. Now we create one large Latgale municipality, if they are already cooperating. Come on, that's beautiful! At the same time, there are seven municipalities around Cesis, which have been working together for seven and eight years. A large overall budget. With Prieces in the center.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U449	Thank you, Mr. Valains. Time's up. Please name Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U450	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I heard one... (Thank you to Cazinovskis) one good idea that I would like to remind the reformers. In time, however, local authorities have to see that it has greater power, and we do not need to centralise it all. Here Member Kirstein said what was happening in Ludza. If we talk about the same Zilupi, it already depends on the municipality as they decide. The last, I think, if I'm not mistaken, for six years there's the greatest birth rate. Yeah, there's no jobs there, go... But those who have stayed there... The stage is gradually evolving. Go see what's going on there. There is the cheapest heating in Latvia. We shouldn't be afraid that we're in those municipalities after the unification... Let's try to get them so hard from the center. Thank you, Andris, for saying that. I think this is a very important factor.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U451	Thank you to Mr Krishan for the fine conclusion of the debate. I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U452	43. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. 44. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. We'll see in the counties... each has a population of at least 20,000. And neither can it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U453	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U454	Well, you see, this proposal shows some understanding of the work of municipalities and public administration in general. And here comes the... Of course, I have listened to the previous debate, you have named a much larger number, 80 thousand even in that county. But my question is, how do we get there? Currently proposed first level municipalities already have several at this 80 thousand level, and this is essentially a second level governance model. They should already be called counties and form a level down. If you clearly remember, several local government leaders with such a longer experience in municipal management pointed out that this map, which you are offering at the moment, is the old model of districts. Nothing else, nothing more. Only when people are reminded of the old, beautiful district model, forget to remind them of the second thing that the old district model was the second level municipalities and that there was also the first level that was closer to the population. In every large one of this great were small - with certain functions, primary, simplest functions, they were closer to the population. Mr Adamovich, you should also remember the district administration. You're setting up a district administration right now. Well, then those people were fools at that time -- at the moment they formed this... I understand that need. I also see clearly that the National Association... and the zero level as well as... understand their need, try to incorporate it, but so far we have not said it at any time as a unanimous conceptual direction of the Saeima, in which this draft law should evolve in future readings. If we do not make such a decision, then we only say that there will in principle be no second or zero level, there will be a model of single level governance, which will unfortunately undermine confidence in public administration as a whole, because citizens will be very disappointed. They will simply lose power and people's relations at that time, and they will get away with them. Such remoteness is, in my opinion, unacceptable. Not for nothing in all, but in those countries that are referred to by the drivers of the reform, there are several levels. It's not just fictional. At the moment a man loses his water at home, well, where will he go? MAY I ask him to lose water at home? He will go to the nearby municipality, the nearby administration, which is elected, where his elected people are.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U455	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U456	Thank you. Dear President, Members! Just a small addition to what I said. There are also two possibilities for what Mr. Valaiņš says: either we are being formed as part of the Rēzekne district by parish associations, where, of course, there can be elections... or in local or as in Rezekne parishes, let's say do. The general meeting (200-300 active people) is coming and being elected, say, seven on the board of this parish, and they are dealing with the cleaning of roads, the removal of snow, the cutting of grass, the injection of lamps... All local issues and primary school issues, all related. And they're staying. Where I mentioned 100, 200, or 300 people, they don't need anything, no law. They may just come together and decide. The question is purely political - do we make the second level... But since, let us say, it is very difficult and we have a fragmented parliament, we also have five parties for the coalition, and there are different views, I am rather sceptical about the second level... as we call them, regions or counties. So we obviously have to figure out here for the third reading a simple thing: do we leave this division from 80 thousand to one parish, which in 2030 will be 8000 as Livani, or do we decide, for example, to combine some 50 thousand, say, Rēzekne with Ludza, that is, 52 thousand, will only remain 40 thousand to 2030. Or Alūksne, Gulbene and Balvi, where there are now 54 thousand. That's one county. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Invent with Saulkrasti first! Where will you add them?’ ) Saulkrasti is another problem. I am talking about agricultural districts. Regina, you know very well - the seaside is something else and money doesn't come from agriculture there - but I am talking about agricultural districts. Or leave it as it is, but in any case this reform will be better than it is. If so, of course, it will be bad, but in any case it will be, so to speak, the best of two bad things. But we have the opportunity to reconsider and make a very good project for the third reading. We only decide if there are 50,000, falling by 40 thousand, or 80 thousand and 8000.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U457	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U458	Colleagues! At the beginning of 2000, when the first districts in Latvia began to develop, this second level, which was the level of districts, practically began to remain obsolete, because the functions of municipalities began to overlap. The circuit councils did not have much to do anymore. There was something else that was left over. Thus, the districts, from about 40,000 inhabitants, were no longer truly regional. We are currently talking about a regional level that could be more than 200 000 people. That is why it really is necessary, but we believe that at the moment, there are planning regions with more than 200,000 inhabitants in each region... That would be the second level. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U459	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U460	Yes, I also agree, first of all, that such a motion by Mr Kirstein is not acceptable. And this is explained by a simple example. At the moment, even the law sets out the minimum population for a particular municipality to meet some of the minimum requirements. On a purely statistical basis, it can be seen that a very large number of municipalities do not meet the minimum requirements laid down by law, given that the population has left. This is one of the reasons why such regulation, setting the number of such people to... to be... I think that is wrong. Practice shows that it is a mistake. Secondly, I agree with Aldim Adamovič that this second level, if it is being created, is what we are talking about in it about a very different - already relatively large - population, which is a measure of hundreds of thousands. That is why such a proposal does not correspond to the idea that should be implemented within the framework of the reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U461	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U462	There was or there was nothing to do to district councils - that is a slightly different question. The question is, rather, why this function was removed for planning regions. But I'll talk about it next. I have a question. However, I did not really understand from Mr Kirštein how we will be working on the third reading on those issues - whether these criteria will be resubmitted or whether this law will happen. In my view, just as Mr Adamovich said... You're talking about 200,000 these planning regions... the regional base for planning. But at some point in the draft law, too, there should be a clear parliamentary vote, a vision that we are in favour of either the second or the first level. Why am I saying that? I say this without fatigue, and I will not get tired in the days to come. Because it depends on what we make the first level chart. If it is a zero level, then I could very much agree to this offer.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U463	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U464	If that's not the case, then...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U465	Mr. Valains, thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U466	Dear colleagues, I understand that we are all very tired, but the further we are discussing, the bigger the problems appear on the top of the bill. Well, first. On the criteria. There is no doubt that the criteria are necessary. But I'm in my own... In one of my speeches, I said that the criteria should be set at third reading, also specifying what is viable and what is not viable. For, let us say, the number of people (it is one of the criteria that was most violated after the 2008 reform)... the number of persons in the municipality. This is a fact, and it is an objective fact. Not only because people leave Latvia, but because its movement of people is like the current trend in the world. Consequently, it is hardly the right criterion. On the second proposal, we are returning to the first, second level again, and now we are going back to the zero level. The fourth and fifth levels will appear in the forthcoming debate. All this shows only one thing: that here's the third reading, forgive me, I don't think you can solve all these problems, because to a large extent the third... Several conceptual changes are planned for the third reading. And here's the brother who was allowed from the very first day. In the beginning it was necessary to discuss the concept, to agree on how its concept will be embodied in the draft law, and only then to continue the discussion of the draft norms. Today we do at all... now with a rather empty speech, because this norm is not a voteable one, which is proposed. And then... must work further on this draft law. That is why I think that really a working day is coming to an end, and time should be drawn up in an intermediate manner.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U467	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U468	When I listen to this debate on the criteria we should have for this reform, at the end of the working day, I would like to say one beautiful story, a beautiful one, which I hope will make you think. And those who really will have to be responsible for the results of this reform first of all can benefit from it. This story is about how God created man. ( Milestones: “On the proposal! ” ) When God created man... After the legend, he was made of clay, put together, and put in his life. Then God saw that a little clay was left. He asked the man: “Well, what do you want? What else do you want to do?” The man said, “Make me happy.” God didn't say anything, he didn't do anything, he just took this clay pitch and put it in the hands of a man. Since then, each person has made what he considers to be happiness. What we see is what we see already. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “On the proposal!” ) Similarly, we currently have this reform of the ATR. I understand that many of you soon... You will no longer have to be responsible for the future of this country, you will not have to take care of the fate of this country, but I assume that you will remain in this country. I therefore call on you to approach with greater responsibility and where you lack competence, to listen to more experienced colleagues. Those who really want to take care of this country who feel responsible for this country, because I understand that those who...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U469	Mr Zarins, please speak on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U470	I'm talking about accurate... What do you think I'm talking about? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U471	This is not about the proposal. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U472	That is what I am talking about. ( Internouncing call.) It's very good that everyone's coming back. Maybe we can keep working. ( Interface: “Ivar... ") I say, if I have been heard, then I want to finish with the idea that, colleagues, someone will have to answer for this. Either in such a way that you will have to live in the nightmare which you are making, or answer, not in this place, but in some other place, for the consequences which you will have created. I understand that now you have... you are swimming in the clums of the full moon (Interview.) But the full moon will go, and you will have to answer for the creation. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) So think better now!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U473	Please talk about the proposal. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Subject: “Five, four, three, two, one! Urah!’ ) The name of the Member Digim Schmit.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U474	The proposal. It could be... The proposal. You can, of course, count now... This could be a very sensible proposal. (Laughter) Could be. Yeah, yeah. No, but seriously, I would say once again: if we had spoken and agreed on how many levels of municipalities, it would be better to say how many levels of administration are there and which of them are municipalities. Once again, I call on you to consider how we can get into this debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U475	Mr. Smith, we are talking about 20 thousand people. Please address the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U476	We are actually talking about 1.9 million, not 20 thousand, and the specific proposal cannot be taken away from this issue, so I am talking about this proposal. In order for this proposal to be settled, we should first decide on the fundamentals: either we see Latvia flat, divided into 40 pieces, or we see it vertically organised. And only then will there be time to debate this proposal. I call on you to return to this fundamental issue once again, without which we will not go forward. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “We don’t make progress because you’re always baffling!” ) Our debate is long and the days will be long, not because there is a time shorter or longer, but because we are talking about things in an absolutely escalating order. ( Interfaces: ‘ That’s it! ’) “Exactly!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U477	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U478	I would like to point out one significant nuance in relation to the proposal. And this same nuance will be important to us when we look at the 55th proposal, where there will also be specific figures - the criteria for determining the city. The question is: who will determine how many permanent residents live in the given settlement area during the prescribed period? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it will be very topical after 2021, because in 2021 for the first time in Latvia censuses of nations and housing will be made using only administrative data. So there will be no more interviews on the spot, and given the recent changes in legislation, when each person can determine both the basic and additional address for the declaration of residence, and the fact that its mobility and the very diverse, diverse range of services, the range of tax reliefs are linked to a particular declared place of residence (interim: “Time!” ), it is very important to understand what will be the criterion that will determine the permanent population of a given area over a given period of time. This must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U479	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U480	I'm already talking about 20 thousand, about 10 thousand, about the criteria. I just wish I could tell you anecdotes, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U481	You can't have anecdotes! No, thank you. I closed the debate. The debate is closed! No jokes!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U482	The legislation has five stages. The first stage - it's a big...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U483	I closed the debate. No jokes! ( Interface: “Why not? ”) ) Ladies and gentlemen, before you leave, before you leave. Please the debate is closed. The proposal is not put to the vote. However, honourable Members must listen to the questions put by Members. This is a very important final part of the sitting. The Saeima Presidium informs that Members Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Tutins, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Jānis Krišāns and Edgars Kucins have submitted a question to the Minister of Agriculture Kaspars Gerhards “On the Conservation of Fish Resources of Lake Razna”. The question has been received and we will pass it on to the Minister for Answers. Members Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Tutins, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Jānis Krišāns and Edgars Kucins have submitted a question to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem “On Conservation of Fish Resources of Lake Rāzna”. We put the question to the Minister for Answer. Members Ivars Zariņš, Regīna Ločmele-Lunova, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins and Vitalijs Orlovs have submitted a question to Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiro “On the establishment of limited availability of information regarding the results of the tests carried out by the public electricity trader and activities carried out by the Ministry of Economics”. The question is noted as urgent and is referred to the Minister for a reply. Members Ivars Zariņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Jānis Krišāns, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Vitalijs Orlovs have submitted a question to Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiro “On the answers given by the Ministry of Economics regarding the results of the tests carried out by the public electricity trader”. The question is also urgent and is referred to the Minister for a reply. Please check your presence! ( Interfaces: “Tests! ”) (Laughter) That's it! ( The ring of noise.) Name of the test results for Member Maria
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U484	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dūklavs, Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Judins, Artuss Neimins, Aleksandrs Kiršteins (intermediate call: “Ir!” )... is, Janīna Kursīte, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ināra Mūrniece, Linda Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-06-PT13-2046-U485	The meeting would continue at 10 a.m. on 10 March. ( Interruption)
