ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, take your seats! Starting the session of the Saeima on 27 February 2020. Changes tabled to the agenda of the sitting The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for an amendment to the agenda and the draft decision on the approval of Mārtiņš Āboliņš as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for an amendment to the agenda and the draft decision on the approval of Andrej Jacobson as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to amend the agenda and include a draft decision “On the approval of Māra Kallis as Deputy President of the Bank of Latvia”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks to amend the agenda and include in it the draft decision on the approval of Zita Zarina as a member of the Board of the Bank of Latvia. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Title of the agenda: Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision “On approval of Mārtiņš Āboliņš as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U2	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined several candidates, including those of members of the Fiscal Discipline Council. One of them was Mārtiņš Āboliņš, and there were no doubts about his professionalism as well as about the professionalism of the other candidates. Therefore, the request to the Saeima to support Mārtiņš Āboliņš as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U3	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Mārtiņš Āboliņš as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Mārtiņš Āboliņš on the election! (Applause) None. ( Laughs) The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “It’s working! No, there is nothing to congratulate! In the crack!’ ) The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Andrejs Jacobson as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U4	Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission also examined the candidacy of Andrej Jacobson yesterday and asked him various questions. Andrej Jacobson is also competent! Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U5	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Andrej Jacobson as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to Andrej Jacobson on his election to the new post! (Applause) The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Māra Kallis as Deputy President of the Bank of Latvia. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U6	We heard Marie Kale yesterday... Deputy President of the Bank of Latvia. The opposition expressed its approval (interim.) , part of the position expressed in favour of... No, well, in principle, the position was also welcomed. So that's the request, colleagues, to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U7	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric. ( Interface: “Vjačeslav... “ No? Oh, name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U8	Dear colleagues, Since absolutely most of us recently supported Mārtiņš Kazaks as the new President of the Bank of Latvia and throughout this time he has given us no reason to doubt about our choices, I believe that it is only logical that we respect his right to choose his team and we support the team he has chosen for himself. In addition, the two candidates that we interviewed at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... their professional relevance and experience and knowledge - there are absolutely no questions about them. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support both candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U9	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U10	Good morning, dear colleagues! We do not doubt that Mr Kalis has strengthened the financial sector, the macro-economic sector and, in particular, the structures of the Bank of Latvia. It's not bad at all. But taking into account the institutional memory that he has had since 2001... He's already in operational command... In the structure of the Bank of Latvia: from 2001 on the Board of the Bank of Latvia and from 2007 on on the Chairman of the Board of the Bank of Latvia. The year 2001 is significant because Ilmārs Rimšēvičs was elected as President of the Bank of Latvia. And when we talk about this institutional memory, we are putting very high expectations on the new management of the Bank of Latvia. And such “small” jobs that need to be done are, let's accept, the merger of the FCMC and the Bank of Latvia, then - the financial companies... development of fintech companies... Mr Kazak's election has already been mentioned in the debate as a very good example in which... The other Baltic countries have also been ahead of us for many years. The same example of financial companies, financial technology companies, where... State aid in Lithuania is for 80 companies, but in Latvia is - how much? How much? What do you think, colleagues? One, two? ( Interface: ‘ Zero! ’) ) Zero............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Maybe one who's fighting for his survival. These challenges for future leadership, including Mr Kazak, are known, but they must not be postponed to some distant future; they must be done now. By this I am trying to say that this institutional memory does not necessarily mean any progress towards the changes on which we very much hope. The Conservatives, however, are mainly in favour of fixed-term leading positions in state institutions, of terms that are not... which should not exceed 10 years. ( Internouncing call.) And this post is unfortunately no exception. Therefore, the New Conservative Party will unfortunately not support the candidacy of Maris Kalis for the post of Deputy President of the Bank of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U11	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U12	I will regret to say a separate opinion: one that differs from that of my colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. I had questions, quite a debate and a lot of questions, Mr Kiel. I, having learned about his CV and also analysed additional information, found that he was really the most close associate to Mr. Rimšēvičs. Also, in view of the recent information on the billions that have been ‘frozen’ and transferred to Kazakhstan and the criminal proceedings related to Kazakhstan in the public space, I abstained from supporting Mr Kiel's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U13	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U14	I think I am speaking on behalf of all the independent Members. ( The box “No! ”) ) Well, yes... Not everything. I would ask for support on behalf of five independent Members. We met the candidate, we met Mr. Kazak as well. And I agree fully with Vjačeslav Dombrovskis that any leader should be allowed to choose his team so that he can bear responsibility for his team. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U15	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U16	The Commission has examined all the candidates. And I am glad that all four candidates – both candidates for the Bank of Latvia and candidates for the members of the Board of Fiscal Discipline – have also worked in this field so far, have not fallen out of the wheel but have done something else. So the request to support Mr. Kiel too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U17	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against -17, refraining from -1. Decision adopted. (Applause) Congratulations on the election! The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Zita Zariņa as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U18	Colleagues! I have said so much positive about these candidates! Zita Zarina also has a great impression. Let's vote for Zita Zarina! Let's support him!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U19	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U20	Good morning, colleagues! Yes, in this case, when I speak of Mrs Zarina, I only have to say the best words. First of all, she has not been on the Board of the Bank of Latvia for 18 years. And since... How many are there?... 10 or more years have not been Chairman of the Board of the Bank of Latvia. But she has worked under State control. And how much I have worked in this parliamentary term and also in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, Mrs Zarina is quite often reporting on issues. And our colleagues, other economists who know him, have said only the best things. And her CV shows that she is an adequate and very good candidate and will contribute to the management of the Bank of Latvia. With regard to all the future officials who will be voted on by the new Conservatives, we will consistently stick to our programme, which has been submitted to the Central Electoral Commission - that in leading positions, I would like to take the lead positions in the state institutions, a person may not be present for more than 10 years. It's just for an explanation. It's sticking to the programme. I think it is only normal that one person, like Mr Cimdara, does not occupy one job for all his life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U21	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U22	Good morning, colleagues! I will support these candidates. But I would like to object a little to Mr Feldman. He says that for more than 10 years a person may not be in various leading positions. In such a situation, when Jānis Bordāns has been the founder of the “Latvian Road” and has been in politics since then, I would ask you to start with Jānis Bordāns first...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U23	Please talk about the question.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U24	... let him go away from politics. Therefore, this cannot be an argument. That cannot be an argument! A
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U25	Please talk about the question. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U26	If a person is a professional, he must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U27	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U28	The Commission voted in favour of Zita Zarina and I invite colleagues to support you by voting in favour of Zita Zarina as a member of the Board of the Bank of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U29	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Congratulations on the election! (Applause) The next item is "Harmonisation of own proposals". Draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 226 Latvian citizens “On banning food packaging containing bisphenol A””. Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U30	Good morning, colleagues! On 1 February 2019, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 226 Latvian citizens “On banning food packaging containing bisphenol A”, and at its meeting on 14 March, the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application referred it to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission for further evaluation. On 30 January 2020, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications received a letter from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, in which the Commission informed that it was necessary to carry out a more detailed analysis in the field of bisphenol A and that the Commission did not have the corresponding capacity (the Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer. Sub-words: Ooo! Thank you very much. and that this issue should be passed on to the government. The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications, having taken note of the opinion of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, unanimously decided that the issue should be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for further detailed analysis. In accordance with the seventh paragraph of Article 131.5 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 226 Latvian citizens on the prohibition of food packaging containing Bisphenol A”. The draft decision provides for a specific task for the Cabinet of Ministers - by 1 October 2020, to prepare a report to the Saeima on the impact of chemicals contained in food packaging on public health and the environment. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 226 collective application “On banning food packaging containing bisphenol A””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the abolition of the compulsory procurement component. Will you speak on behalf of the applicants? On behalf of the applicants? Yes, please! Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U32	Good morning, colleagues! More than a year ago, we all unanimously decided that the OIC should be abolished. We all know the result: a parliamentary committee of inquiry was set up. And what a surprise! - the Commission itself also agreed that its system was ineffective, anti-state, and expressed its effectiveness in all its different words. We now offer the Saeima to decide again... order... give a mandate to the government - Krišjānis Kariņš - by 17 April to cancel the mandatory procurement component. We also have on the agenda a draft law tabled by a group of the JPV LV, where we are already offering some kind of solution. I think these two texts are complementary and I would call for support today. But yet... I would like to say that, while working in this commission, one conclusion is, however, that all this began with Krišjānis Kariņš, and it was, however, UNIFORMITY (Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “It must also end Krišjānis Kariņš!” ) led by policy. And now the opponents of this policy are the Unity again... to change something, there are fighters against the old policy. I would now call on those fighters against the old policy to come and express their views and support these changes. This is a change. This is a change in the political vector that we are currently offering. And I would call on us today to support not only the JPV LV proposal, but also this draft decision, which would repeal the OIC, because that is what we would oblige the main creator of the OIC system to abolish it. And in the public space, unfortunately, the main opponent of this... with various arguments that if the Minister sees what he does not understand, Latvenergo will immediately fail... in different ways, argue that this should not be done. All parties were represented in the Parliamentary Investigation Commission of the mandatory procurement components, all were represented. Everyone came to the same conclusion that its system is ineffective, that there are a lot of fraudsters, various cases... But no, we're going on the same path. And it is, unfortunately, the policy put in place by the Unity, which... Now you are not in favour of changing... I would ask you to support this draft decision and finally start doing something and not just talking. Otherwise... With regard to OIC election campaigns: 'OIC is bad - must be abolished!' “ Oh, my God, these electricity bills! Entrepreneurs need help!” But at the end of the day, when something should start to do... Even after the parliamentary investigation, the committees with those works are the more vacated. Therefore, my fellow Members, I would call for support for this draft decision and once again ask the government to resolve this problem. There is no solution until this white day. There is no solution for control mechanisms. There is no solution in terms of cost limits. The old system remains. And no one would say that he had done anything, there's no solution! Because in fact we live in the same system as before. Two three hacks have been caught, and they are now being hanged on the wall that they are the main ones. Hundreds of them are in this system! Just the question: when will we finally start fighting? I, my fellow Members, call for this draft decision to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U33	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U34	Good morning, colleagues! We will not support this offer and we also call on you not to support it. The issue of OIC is a difficult issue, it is a question for the whole economy of Latvia and for the people of Latvia. This offer is devoting this issue to the lowest common denominator: political struggles. This question, the OIC question, has long been not a question of politicians. This issue has long been not a question of position and opposition. This issue is not about the people involved. This is a question of the Latvian economy. The issue of OIC has become a symbol for years, starting at a time when it has been shown in public media. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “On the symbol of populism!” ) It has become a symbol of the old policy. It has become a symbol for the sons of the driver. It has become a symbol of self - sacrifice. It has become a symbol of the private use of political power. And we now have a situation where we cannot fight with the symbol behind closed doors. We need to bring it out and create a public debate on this issue. We, those who work now in the form of cooperation, those who form the government, know that old policies are over. We know that decisions are made responsibly. We know that five cooperation partners are looking at each other over the shoulder and do not allow irresponsible decisions. However, the opposition is waging OIK, the slogans of the old policy. After locked doors (Interface) This issue will not be resolved. It must be brought out, brought out and discussed publicly. This is the only way to redefined this symbol. This must be done publicly. That is why we have called and addressed our partners. This government has been brave. We have seen that there is a possibility of a major repair (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) the fiscal sector. We know and believe that there is scope for major repairs on OIC issues as well. I therefore appeal to you and call on you to reject this populist offer and to support the transfer... The draft repeal of the OIC, which is our next issue to decide. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U35	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U36	Hello, colleagues! Undoubtedly, OIK is an afēra - one large and very expensive society in Latvia... A climate that we continue to pay for. We know exactly what the father of this afex is. He has already been mentioned here. This is the existing Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. It is he who, as Minister for Economic Affairs, established this legal framework, the basis for the OIC's sphere. And he's still not embarrassing about it. He still believes that he has done everything correctly and that he has nothing to do with it. If you've listened to the committee of inquiry, then... It was one of these fairy tales that were told the commission how well he had done everything. And in general, what are you wearing him at all! It was notified to some of these texts. It would be only right, therefore, that Krišjānis Kariņš, who has begun this phase, would also put an end to it. It would not only be his political duty but also his moral duty to do so. But there is a need to understand one principle thing that I have stressed not once again and which I think will need to be stressed once again: to end the OIC's sphere and end the OIC's aid payment - these are two different things. This is how to remove brain tumors and cut off the head. Also when we cut off our head, we remove brain tumors, but when we cut off our head, we get a number of other problems that do not solve the goal why such an operation was needed at all. Unfortunately, this can also be said about this decision; there are the following risks. So by offering to remove this brain tumor, it is also offered to cut off the head. The reference is made on the basis of the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Saeima, trying to justify it in such a way that the committee has found that everything there is illegal, incorrect and similar. I can read to you what the Commission's final report says. That's exactly the opposite. The situation, in the opinion of the Commission, is this because... Latvia is unique because it has developed legally, acting within the existing legal framework for the parties concerned. That, in turn, means what? That we do not have to abolish this regulation, but put it in order, it is necessary to put it in order. We have already made such a decision once, the Saeima called for the abolition of OIC, but there was one very basic thing in this decision: that, before the annulment, the call was to assess it, to find this legal form, to carry out this assessment. That was why this decision was to be supported and we had... and we, as the Saeima, believed that those to whom such a call was accepted would do so. Unfortunately, this was not accomplished; there was a completely different performance that we all know about. Now we are proposing a decision that does not even call for it to be assessed at all - just cries. Colleagues! Such a move is unlikely to be the right one, to be supported. At the same time, saying 'no' that it should not be dealt with would also give the wrong political signal. Therefore, my call would be that today we support the next item on the agenda, where... will really be talking about the fact that such a draft law has already been prepared... The Saeima has already been prepared and submitted. Here, there's a real chance here that... we can start working and actually prepare this real instrument, if at all possible. But for this... I would like to call for a critical assessment of such a proposal, however, and not to give misleading political signals either. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U37	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U38	I don't know, maybe at the second question someone in the coalition will climb into the tributary and explain. Because, if I remember correctly, last week these issues were abolished because of some fiscal space... Well, that you're gonna be... its fiscal space is taken with it today in the hall, right? The last one, Mrs Strique, talked about this. I am now waiting from her fiscal space, as I say, to set out in detail. At the same time, Mrs. Strike could also tell us all how it could have been that during the time when the OIK Aperture was introduced and maintained all these years, she, as the Deputy Head of the KNAB and Juris Juris Jušas, as a high employee of KNAB, did not notice this aperture. ( Interface: “Because there is no driver! ” ) It was not noticed! No case has been brought! KNAB, whose direct task was to control the funding of political parties, did not find it directly correlated with the beneficiaries of the OIC. As long as Campar, as I say, “put down ” the permissions, 250,000 came to the Unity. Accurate correlation. Nobody noticed! And now Mrs Strike talks about fiscal space. I wonder if she knows what that is. So I look forward to proof that Juta Strike knows what fiscal space is and has learned about it in a week. Come and tell me! Otherwise, I will have every reason to believe that the BIP is taking part and that it has already taken part in this area, as I have not considered so far, but that is something that you will only confirm. So please come here and explain how it will cost us and how it will cost you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U39	The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U40	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to make an assessment in my address of the draft decision that has been tabled and to briefly describe the draft law that has been tabled by our group. And now on the draft decision. Members of the Saeima shall be obliged to take weighted decisions. However, we also have the right. The right to give tasks to the executive, in particular, if it is evident that issues of public interest are not on the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers. The abolition of over-compensation for the procurement component is an important issue. The present draft decision provides for the delegation of the provisions for the repeal of the OIC. Perhaps this proposed solution would be excellent if... unless our group had submitted the draft law drawn up by Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, which means that there is no longer any need to give the government the task. The work has been done. And now, a little bit of what you've done. The proposed legislation provides for a transparent and cost-based pricing mechanism. ( Internouncing call.) It aims to eliminate the components of compulsory procurement in compliance with the rule of law and to prevent payment from other financial sources. And today we have a unique opportunity to support not only the bill, but smaller bills for Latvian citizens and entrepreneurs, to increase competitiveness and ultimately ensure a better future for all of us. I invite you to be reasonable and not to support this draft decision, but the next item on the agenda, which intends to hand over the draft law already drawn up for further work at the sittings of the Saeima Commission. Because tomorrow is being created today. Thank you all on behalf of the Latvian people and future generations already now. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U41	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U42	Good morning, colleagues! Those who promise to cancel the OIC tomorrow for lunch are either populists or do not know the circumstances of the case or have a hidden plan to simply shift OIC to another kind of payment for citizens. And I think those who have actually actually also tried to do something to cut and cancel the OIC know that. By the time of the Minister of Pavilut, everything went just in one ditch - the permits were issued, there was no control. Puce issued 622 permits, Anrijs Matīss - 279. More than a thousand were issued, sometimes even though the entrepreneurs who promised to build the stations were five registered in one apartment. This was the origin of OIC in Latvian politics. The first serious attempts to reduce it were in Pavluta at the time he presented... when he ‘activated’ the moratorium, or ban on issuing new licences, and began to liquidate the licences issued, where he saw that the operators had not complied with their obligations. We kept going. I've been strengthening this moratorium in the law. We made a proposal to limit the internal margin margin, we reduced the share capital, Mr Asheraden completed it. ‘ Latvenergo’... We also diverted part of Latvenergo's profits to OIC compensation, limited aid, for example for wind stations that did not previously have aid limited, and gas prices... the impact was reduced to the price, we started to form the State Construction Control Office, taking people to work, to have controls physically on the ground, and took a number of other measures. And as a result of all these measures, it was possible to keep the OIC at a fixed level of EUR 26.70 per megawatt-hour. Otherwise, it would have already increased to €41.28 per megawatt-hour in 2018. This is not a simple task. That is why all those colleagues who ripped shirts with foam on their lips before the elections promised that "we will cancel OIC as soon as we get into the government!" , either did not understand anything about lying to the people or wanting to implement such a plan, as Mr Nemir is now proposing - to shift OIC to taxpayers' pockets, to compensate for it from the state budget. Compensation from the state budget means that, in the end, citizens will pay again for it. If you promised it, then you would certainly have had to have a plan - a better plan than the draft law that you, with a great deal of ambition, are trying to offer now to the government by covering your incapacity. I call on you to support this draft law so that you are... this task, so that you can put the cards on the table. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaistov: “Populism!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U43	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U44	Bye, you... I totally agree with you. You rightly said that this is a question for Latvia as a whole and first of all concerns our economies... the economy and its potential growth and that there is no need to play games with this. I completely agree. But then I really also call that no one should play them, for in fact these two proposals... I will support both and call on both to support them. They are not in any way contradictory to each other; they are rather complementary to each other. Whether they are qualitative, very good or not - it is perhaps another question, but ideologically they complement each other. And one more thing. I'm so... Well, I'll let you... that would have dreamed... Tell me that today it looks like it will support the transfer of commissions against the vote on administrative territorial reform... some... Well, I had that dream at night. And if you think this game is playing... that now with a great deal of noise will be passed on to commissions and there it will disappear in itself, of course, as usual - it will not happen in any way. And administrative territorial reform will not result in this either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U45	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U46	I will support both the proposal made by the ZZS and the draft law presented by the Minister of the CPV LV. But I want to turn to KPV LV... and I want to appeal to you to remind you of one thing. A year ago... When you decided to go to the government of Unity and actually give your golden voice, I told you from this platform that you would lose. And I was right. And the only thing that has gained all of this so far is your former leader, whom is a two-fold welcome to those who, before that, beat him very brutally with various insulting words. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Interdependence of Geodans.) I want you to learn, KPV LV, from your mistake. I want you to learn from your mistake, and I want to recommend to you... recommend that you also support the proposal put forward by the STECF, for the reason that your only chance of survival is to stand up for the abolition of the OIC with teeth and nails on every issue. Every question! Even if it has been submitted by another party. Be smarter than a year ago and support this! And it is absolutely clear that we will also support your proposal, they are not mutually exclusive, they will help you to recover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U47	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision was rejected. Next is the report by the Saeima Bureau on the draft law tabled. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market’ presented by Mr Zakatistova, Ms Kursītes, Mr Pucena, Ms Ģirgens, Mr Krapāne, Mr Wittenberg, Mr Puga and Mr Benhen-Beken be referred to the National Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “On” has applied to speak... “ About ” someone has applied for... Is that so? I'm sorry. ‘ Member Ivars Zarins has signed up to speak for’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U48	Colleagues! This reminds me of anecdotes about a student who comes to the exam and tries to tell the teacher that he is ready to pass the exam. He says, “Give me the opportunity to draw a ticket.” The teacher, although he has not seen him, says, “Well, well, drag!” The student looks carefully, pulls out one ticket (Interface: “On the subject!” ), looks at the lecturer and says, “May I wear it again?” The teacher says, “Well, well, pull!” The student is looking carefully at the table again, looking for the necessary ticket, pull out, and looks at: “A can I, I’ll pull you again?” The teacher says, “OK, pull!” He pulls it out. He looks at the teacher, the teacher doesn’t need anything anymore, he says: “Oh, well, give me a listing book! Insect!’ Other colleagues ask: ‘Why?’ He says: “Well? Well, see how he tried! So he was going, so he had a plan to put something down.” The same is true of this draft law. This is another attempt... Minister for Economic Affairs... to cancel the OIC. It is obvious from this draft law that it has been created by the Ministry of Economics... at the office, the ministerial office or any other place where energy is equally well-targeted. This bill is specific, let us say so. In such cases, the word “special” is commonly used in society. See those “beads” (Internext.) There are two options contained in this draft law. Either it is a far-reaching demagogic populism with an estimate that no one will agree to something like this and can therefore afford to come up with such a proposal, or indeed the economic minister has found this miracle promised to the public before the elections... How to cancel the OIC. Unfortunately, this is not apparent from the material submitted. But if this is the case, then this bill certainly claims to the Nobel Prize in physics, mathematics and the economy, because new economic and mathematical principles have been discovered there. And we should really be clear: perhaps there is this opportunity that we are now passing through. There is also, of course, the third option - the conspiracy - in which I do not want to slip, but unfortunately, there is also the option that is being done as an order to serve the interests of another powerful force to create a new OIC floor, because this is being denounced. There is therefore a need for a new one, but it cannot be created as long as it exists. It must therefore be destroyed in such a way that there is a need for a new solution. But all of them are yet just speculation; they are assumptions that we should examine. And so I am calling for support to be given to what the Minister for Economics has asked for in his speech at the previous sitting... the fact that he is asking for this draft law to be passed on to the Saeima, to support it, to evaluate it, to assess the rule of law or, on the contrary, to judge the illegality. Colleagues, I call for support. Let's do it! We submit for evaluation to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, as requested by the Minister for Economics and the drafters of this law, because this is the most competent commission to work with this draft law! We have been working on it for a long time, and also the Legal Bureau consultants - which is not insignificant! - has already come to know this complex and relentless legal framework, which is very important, because the lawyer from the edge will break the neck here rather than be able to arrange all these mazes. I therefore call for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and, as a result, we will either have a new effective framework for the OIC regulation or a new Minister for the Economy. ( The box “Abi! ”) ) In any case, Latvia's society, Latvia's state and coalition... will benefit from it, great benefits. Colleagues, this is a rare case where the interests of Latvian society and Latvian coalitions, power coalitions, are consistent. I therefore call for support for this draft legislation to be passed on to the Commission. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U49	Please call me! Someone wants to talk against? (Laughter) Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. In addition, colleagues, we have examined the agenda for the meeting on 27 February. Before we register, we must welcome one child today. Our colleague, Uldis Budrik, has a birthday today. Congratulations! (Applause) Someone sings: “To this we are again... “) Please ask Members for their presence status to be registered. Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary, Maria Golubeva, for reading the results of the registration. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Well? What happens now?” Substitution: “No one is!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U50	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Boriss Cilevičs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Armands Krauze... Krauze is, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Ināra Mūrniece, Ivans Ribakovs and Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-05-PT13-2045-U51	We'll go on in 10 minutes... Let's start the 5 March session. In 10 minutes! Colonel, 10.
