ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2109-U1	Honourable Members! The session of the second extraordinary session of the Saeima started on 18 August 2020. The agenda shall be accompanied by reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes the Member Valaiņa, Dūklava, Reizniece-Ozola, Bergmanis, Urbanovich, Stepanenko and other draft laws submitted "Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate" (No. 755/Lp13) to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2109-U2	Dear Chairman of the Presidium of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Although I have signed this bill, it is my duty today, as a Member of the Saeima, to say that this bill, too, is just... it will only be the vote on the least evil. Yeah... The reform of the cadastral value prepared by the Ministry of Justice, led by the New Conservative Party, is not the least evil, but a political crime against the Latvian people! Because it is precisely the cadastral value that forms the basis for the calculation of the real estate tax for the whole of the State. Who now expects any Latvian people? For everyone has housing and for many people it is real estate, which is used not only for housing needs, but also for commercial activities. This will lead to all of us – the whole country! – we will pay more to pay the specific tax. This means that now, at a time of a pandemic, now that there is an economic recession in the country, the country is being prepared to increase taxes. A new reform of the calculation of cadastral value is therefore unacceptable! And what the opposition is asking for is to postpone this reform only for a year. This means only one thing – we must reject this parade prepared by the Ministry of Justice and develop a completely different methodology for calculating cadastral value. It must finally be removed from the calculation of the property tax. Because what's happening right now... For example, in the center of Riga people pay only for the fact that their real estate is closer to the entire infrastructure. These arrangements are absolutely illogical and dangerous to the economy. If we look from a different perspective, from a desire to attract cadastral value to a particular market price for real estate, then... Don't you think... Even the Latvian Real Estate Evaluators Association very harshly and consistently criticises the reform of the cadastral value developed by the Ministry of Justice, because they believe that the people of the Ministry have not studied the calculation and calculation of the market value of certain real estate. I therefore ask you to vote today, of course, on this draft law as the least evil. But it should be remembered that in general it is a political crime against any Latvian citizen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2109-U3	“On” please speak to Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2109-U4	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I would first of all like to thank you for having the opportunity today to look at this issue at all. And I would also like to thank those Members who supported the proposal to convene an extraordinary sitting, and I thank the Saeima President for having been on the agenda. I have the feeling today that these speeches on this subject have ever been heard. Already about a year ago, a discussion took place from the parliamentary tribunal about this – it is necessary or not necessary to extend this deadline. And we stand by the fact that we do not need to prolong, that we need to straight away sort out the cadastral value bases in the draft law. A year ago, just like today... These fundamentals are not fair to citizens. And I'll explain why. What is currently happening, for example, in Riga microdistricts? If a new dwelling is built in a microdistrict, then the cadastral value is increasing for the entire microdistrict! And there's no small number of such cases. And, in essence, the people who are the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable... that the value of their property is unduly increasing. At the same time, we see a whole range of properties right here in the Old Town... Walk and look at these office buildings and remember that these houses are essentially... in this existing system... they are libraries, they are various production spaces, sewing workshops... What hasn't been registered here! This does not in essence reflect the real value of the property. We have a whole series of such cases... For example, a relatively beautiful house near the hotel “Latvia” pays a very minimal real estate tax. A multi-storey building! This, of course, has a completely different market value. At the same time, people living in microdistricts pay a disproportionate amount of real estate tax on single-apartment buildings because these cadastral values have not been calculated correctly. The base itself has been erroneously established. And we called for it to be arranged. But what we are seeing at the moment is that we see a politically written document, because non-governmental organisations that understand something from all this have not been even close to making this document. This document has become political. And we see that exactly what we talked about a year ago has come true. That year will come and we will be sitting on the same question, in the same way. Because this is not a priority for the new Conservative Party! And, in fact, you have now robbed this House of the opportunity to get the only home to be exempted from real estate tax at all. This proposal, which you (A sound break.) ... shows just how much... How much... In fact, you do not understand the fundamental nature of this problem. This proposal, which you have brought, is no longer to be corrected, everything must start with zero. And, in my view, this draft law also requires the government to develop a new... But I doubt whether, under the leadership of ministers who do not really care about this issue, it is possible to establish a normal, coherent, human readable, fair method of cadastral evaluation of immovable property. At the moment, our proposal is this. The values in force should be confirmed because... The law required the approval of the new... We offer to confirm the current values, however, for another year... Those that were historical, these erroneous – however! - Because we just don't have others. And within a year, the Ministry of Justice... maybe even with the involvement of the government, with the involvement of another ministry, with those who may have a greater understanding of this issue... A fair methodology for cadastral evaluation of real estate should be developed. Of course, this desire to move on to market value is also reflected in tax payments at the moment. However, in my view, and also in the eyes of our colleagues, this idea should be abandoned and progressed towards the establishment of a fair cadastral evaluation methodology. Draw out all those darts that exist today in real life, exist, and prepare a really fair model in the course of the year! And it is in the public interest that these cadastral values should be lower. In order to purchase property (e.g. land under apartment buildings) in the public interest, these costs would be lower than they are today. I call for support for this proposed legislation. Colleagues, we have no option but this one – to support this draft law at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2109-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” (No. 755/Lp13) transfer to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No. 82, no. 1, no. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law” presented by Member Feldman, Eglišs, Ozola, Jušas and Riekstins (No. 757/Lp13) shall be referred to the Legal Commission, providing that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2109-U6	Hello, dear colleagues in the Saeima! Well, unlike that philosophy, which was solely focused on how... on the cadastral values of how they need to be built, said colleagues from the opposition, this draft law is prepared to tell the public what we have been trying to say for some time now. And that is, there must not be any change in the cadastral value bases, no matter what they are calculated and no matter what they are, until a clear model of reform for real estate tax that is acceptable to all has been developed. Because it is absolutely clear that the system, which has been in Latvia for 30 years, that cadastral values are directly related to the amount of real estate tax, is... At the moment, it has proved to be useless. While during Kučinskis's time the focus was only on the need to manipulate cadastral values all the time, the particular draft law is about it and clearly sets out the deadlines for what needs to be done. First. The cadastral value bases must be validated not by a retroactive date, by a date that has long since passed, but thus by July 2023. Secondly. Already until July next year, the Cabinet of Ministers must bring this long-awaited real estate tax reform plan, including the exemption of primary housing from real estate tax. Also... To be the time for society to prepare for all possible changes in taxes after this reform has taken place... Then there would be a cadastral value base, then for tax purposes this cadastral value base would enter into force on 1 January 2026. What didn't I rule out? I do not rule out that it is possible to reach an agreement on a reasonable real estate tax system that is in line with today's... corresponds to today, also faster. In such a case, the draft law will already be dealt with by the Commission and the draft law will allow for appropriate adjustments, or it will be possible to modify these adjusted cadastral value bases in all readings after its adoption. Undoubtedly, there are various problems and there are many injustices there and there are many things that need to be corrected. You could enter into force even more quickly, but it must not happen – it must not happen! – Before it is clear to the general public what the real estate tax rate will be for both their personal property, their commercial property and all other properties... farmers too... and, among other things, the reform should also bring to the government... This task is written: to bring back a bill that... whether a set of draft laws or issue perhaps the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on these all fees, which depend on cadastral values. There are a wide variety of fees – fortification in the Landbook, all kinds of... all other things, if. They also depend on the cadastral value. For us, the whole system is so flat as a table that everything depends on the cadastral value that mathematicians, perhaps wise people have calculated in the State Land Service. That's not bad. They probably do a happy job, but we... We need to be courageous, we need to make a political decision that we want, first of all, to ensure the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution to people at home, that we want this article to work actually in life, as it is written in the Constitution. It is also for the government to understand and come up with this reform accordingly... Secondly, we must not reduce... To reduce the competitiveness of businesses. Of course, I've got some more... There may be many different discussions about whether, for example, gambling medicines should be reduced by real estate tax. I think it should be raised, but entrepreneurs who create normal added value for the economy, or farmers, especially small farmers, would also like to reduce this real estate tax burden for them. Still, they do a blessing work. I call for support to be given to this draft law as soon as possible, moving it forward to the next readings, so above all, in the committee and beyond, at the Saeima sitting. Thank you, and let us ensure that the Constitution works in Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2109-U7	Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2109-U8	Dear colleagues, I listened to the Lord Feldman today, and I had such a déjà vu feeling. Just a year ago, he promised from the parliamentary tribunal that a system of cadastral values would be put in place and, at the same time, that there would be an offer for the introduction of a new real estate tax policy, with an exemption of 20 000 for land plus a tax of 0,2 per cent, an exemption of 100 000 euro for buildings plus a tax of 0,2 per cent, and that day he also called for the urgent adoption of amendments on cadastral values so that this genius proposal could be drawn up from the government. What we see is, in fact, that the UKP as a whole, and Mr Feldman too, obviously forgets that the government, the Prime Minister, has the mandate and the time not to look for the guilty, not to look for the excuses why something cannot be done, but this time has been given to actually fulfil his pre-election promises, and this time has been given to actually do the work, not to delay all the time, the most unpopular, also the most difficult, tasks that someone, as a football ball, plays further to the next Saeima, the next government. The year has passed, and instead of getting a normal arrangement for the cadastral value system, to get also a proposal for the tax application, we... What do we get? We are receiving a genius proposal which provides for a three-fold increase in the real estate tax for farmers, because the cadastral values are in order. We see important real estate for manufacturers, other entrepreneurs... increase. Once again someone else is guilty because the Ministry of Finance, because other coalition partners have not listened to the Ministry of Justice. You have to be able to demonstrate team work, you don't need to shock society, you have to offer a solution... and not in 2023, not in 2026, but from 1 January of the following year. That is why, for my part, I also do not support such a draft law, which, in fact, again plays this, not a simple task, but a very necessary one, once again as a football ball. I am quite surprised at the fact that Mr Feldman was asked for, well, for almost two years to realise that the cadastral value system is indeed linked to real estate tax rates. You can apply any rate, it will never be ideal if the cadastral value system is not arranged. And the system of cadastral values in Latvia is not arranged. It differs even hundreds of times within the regions and Riga, it differs on one street within the Old Town. Two identical houses, the same market value, only cadastral values are very different. Apparently someone has been especially close. If the system of cadastral values is where in the Old Town, Līvu Square, there are production buildings, what rates can you talk about? If the cadastral value is where the private, rich, large private, libraries are located, what fair real estate tax policy can you talk about? By postponing such tasks until 2023 and 2026... actually what must be understood is that this government comes with a proposal to postpone the possibility of applying relief to the single house. This promise will also not be fulfilled. This government also proposes to postpone the alignment of the existing bardaque, which I have already had to do, I agree with under the Kučinski Government, and the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnačs, did not do so at that time. I am, in fact, also surprised that, throughout this whole discussion, the only flags are indeed the Ministry of Justice, which has less competence for tax policy. The Ministry of Finance sits in the bushes and does not participate at all. If you don't do it yourself, the BIP, the Ministry of Justice, take it, but at last, in the helpers of the Ministry of Finance, maybe... Well, where one's head is smarter, two more smarter – and something will come up with... figure out and come up with a solution. I do not support this proposal. I believe that the government has been given a mandate and time to give a concrete solution and to deliver on these promises today. I call for this draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2109-U9	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” (No. 757/Lp13) transfer to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! On – 72, against – 9, refrains – None. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, We have reviewed the agenda of the sitting. There's also a record of Members. It's been a success. Thank you. So I closed the sitting.
