ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We will continue to discuss the agenda for the meeting on 5 March. On the agenda - draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”. On behalf of the Commission on Territorial Reform, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U2	Good morning, colleagues! At the end of the previous sitting, we remained on the 44th proposal tabled by Mr Kirštein, but which is not a voteable proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U3	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote. Let's go to 45.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U4	Proposal 45 has been tabled by Member Viktoras Valaiņš and provides for rules on the establishment of the county and rules on the establishment of the district. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U5	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U6	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. High Minister. Colleagues! Today, I really hope that, in the context of the examination of the Saeima, we will, however, introduce some clarity on the model of the second level of territorial planning. This proposal too, which is 45, although not put to the vote... I would call on my colleagues, however, to speak about this, and I will explain the meaning and nature of the proposal. This proposal proposes a definition of a county. And with this proposal, which is the (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) ... What is essential? This proposal does not aim to build on planning regions, but rather to build on the so-called... a second-level governance model based on large cities. If supported, such a proposal would also provide a clear second-level governance model with an integrated... In principle, the management function of the second level, the administrative capacity of the major cities. And the big cities would also take on this territorial plan, and then there would be eight nine second-level planning regions in Latvia, where then more... greater roles are also entrusted. I think this proposal is very logical. I would remind you that this proposal has been drafted together with experts, like one of my previous proposals, and is also based on studies that say that this would be the best model, not the one currently proposed - this model of planning regions... but to make direct use of the administrative capacity of cities, creating a second-level governance structure. I would like to call for this proposal to be supported, at least in some way, by the Saeima to choose the way in which the second level governance structure will or will not be built. Colleagues, I call on you to support and express the opinion of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U7	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U8	Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U9	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, For almost 30 years there has been an independent and capitalist socio-economic facility in Latvia. However, socialism spots have been preserved for a long time in the administrative territorial breakdown. The current ATR is part of the liberal structural reforms called for by the dismantling of the remains of socialist structures and planning. What is the hidden meaning and nature of the reform? Latvia currently has the lowest minimum wage in the Baltic States. Our country also has one of the lowest levels of pay for the European Union. It is clear that over the next few years, the government will be forced to raise its wages slightly, but the logic of maintaining and increasing capitalist exploitation indicates that the quantity and quality of municipal services must be reduced accordingly and as much as possible. Today, in the morning television broadcast, Minister Puce said about municipalities as providers of services. He probably does not understand that unification of every city's population in the municipality also has a profound mental and spiritual significance that embodies their connection with their home country. Minister Pūcem has local power not more than a trading company, but municipal management - only paid managers. However, it is not said anywhere that a supermarket 50 kilometers away from your home is better and more convenient than a small house right next to you. The owner of a small shop knows all his buyers for generations. He understands their needs, but instead he offers an anonymous supermarket, which also belongs to foreign owners. The concentration of local power in so-called development centres has been implemented to manage the people of Latvia directly from the government. Local power becomes a formality. We have seen all this after the recent dismissal of the Riga City Council. After the fact, Minister Pūce wants to eliminate all disadvantaged municipalities and demolish rural areas of Latvia. At the same time, Latvia does nothing to reduce the water head of Riga and to claim to force the agreement with the state bureaucratic apparatus. Why does a small country have so many ministries? Development/About lot! , eliminate the Ministry of Defence under your control and save at least half a billion euros, which will be sufficient for both municipalities, teachers and medical practitioners. But best start thinking about changing the socio-economic facilities of independent Latvia (Dep. M. Stein and D. S. Riekstins: “On the proposal!” ) and it will be the biggest and best gift to restore independence for 30 years.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U11	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U12	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Perhaps a lower emotional atmosphere for this debate. If we are talking about this proposal, it is an interesting proposal, of course, but to be honest, it has no place in this law, because this law should provide the main answer to the main question: do we have two-level municipalities... Or just one level? Because if we have two-level municipalities, it has... should be in this law, including a regional map. As far as this proposal is concerned, this can undoubtedly be debated, it is really interesting, but it concerns another area of legislation, and I feel that it is not relevant to this draft law and, thank God for not voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U13	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U14	I could not agree that this does not apply to this draft law, because I would like to remind you that two conceptual and, in my opinion, mutually exclusive mechanisms have been decided by the Commission. In particular, on the second level management model and on the zero level management model. I would also call on the Minister to take part in this debate and to explain what the Ministry thinks about these two mutually exclusive proposals. This proposal would provide for a second-level governance model to be developed by the Saeima decision using the administrative capacity of large cities, based on the mapping of large cities in the country. I would therefore call for positions to be put forward, otherwise for the third reading, many of the positions you have mentioned will simply be mutually exclusive. The Commission will not have a clear mandate in which to work.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U15	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U16	Good morning! We are continuing the debate on the region... the need for or not for administrative regions. So I'll try again to explain to those who may not be in the course. It is true that the regional level in the European context is in fact two statuses. The first is the regions of the European Union characterised by the NUTS classification, the classification of European statistics by Eurostat, and the second is the LAU. It's a national... national level. So at NUTS level Latvia is like one region - NUTS-1, NUTS-2, NUTS-3. And only at national level now there are municipalities and cities at LAU level. The NUTS level is what tells you what regions... what regional map is Europe. Proposals for administrative regions... including me... provided for future Latvia on this NUTS level in the European map. My proposal was that these five administrative regions should be on this NUTS map. Why? Because this really depends on the development of each region and also the country as a whole and the planned funding. Regions play a crucial role in the context of the European Union, not a country. We're still experimenting. All the arguments that there is no need for regions in Latvia, we have a small country... I'll say, there's a lot of... Several countries of the European Union, which are much smaller but Nutu regions, are. For example, the argument that the population does not match us. I will say that at NUTS level 2 in Finland, the smallest region is only 25 000. So everything is possible. However, I would like to come back to this issue of the regions early or late because, as it is now referred to in Article 70... the renaming of these planning regions, only the renaming of administrative regions, has nothing to say. They will not be administrative departments. That cannot be accepted at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U17	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U18	Proposal 45 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U19	Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U20	46 is the proposal of the commission responsible and provides for the exclusion of Article 7 on the modification of administrative areas and borders. This has been done because all the rules on the identification and amendment of administrative areas are consolidated, included in Article 6, which we have previously supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U21	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U22	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Members! I would simply like to have an explanation and to be convinced that we do not, by means of this proposal, pour out a child from... not just water out. This is not about the administrative areas that are connected together as municipalities... as a municipality, but I would like to know the order of how to move the city’s borders within the municipalities, which is also an administrative territory. Especially now, after the creation of larger districts, naturally, the question of the fact that it is often next to the region is actually the same city. And I assume that within a year, local authorities will become aware of the clarification of their borders, that is, moving about, I do not know how many meters, kilometres, perhaps, but there will be such clarification. And I read twice the previous proposal. But I have so much confidence that the municipality will be able to do so by its decision, by consulting the population or by conducting a regular public consultation... Is that enough? Because your previous proposal, to which you will vote, talks about the Cabinet of Ministers, talks about everything else, just for... For the protocol, I would very much like you to say with your words what exactly the order in which the city or large county will be... but our territory, which we know with a white inscription, will be able to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U23	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U24	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Continuing what Mr. Kučinski has already begun. The problem with this proposal is that a great many duties and rights have been imposed directly on the Cabinet of Ministers. And this, of course, gives the impression that planned municipalities can eventually only come out as an instrument of representativeness, not of the interests of local people. The Cabinet of Ministers will determine the limits, the Cabinet of Ministers will determine the updating of the boundaries, the Cabinet of Ministers will also determine the procedure for preparing and submitting documents for changes regarding the status of division, and administrative centres, the procedure for re-allocation of municipal institutions, financial, property rights and obligations in the context of reform. By the way, the redistribution of property rights and liabilities, and also the redistribution of revenue, are two issues that I believe are not sufficiently dealt with in the context of this reform, and this is particularly topical in those municipalities that will be divided, less where they will be combined. And the best criterion in this proposal is, of course, the criterion... The obligation to take into account the interests of the state and local government, the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers and the decisions of the participating councils, but the disaster is that this law lacks the procedure by which municipalities could voluntarily unite or divide, because its procedure, which is included, only concerns internal division or merger within one municipality. And this proposal, for example, does not solve the problem of Ogres and Izkile, where to develop them... they need only a small part or territory of another municipality. And accordingly, this issue and such cases are not addressed by the existing law or by the proposed collection of other proposals. Since, for the third reading, at least these cases should be clarified and more flexibility should also be given to the municipalities themselves to amend these limits.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U25	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U26	I can only join the two previous speakers in saying that proposal 40 requires some clarity. And the Minister may have arrived today physically, but it seems that the debate on the proposal and the meaning and nature of the proposal for the Saeima are not ready, however, because this proposal is largely... It is also the responsibility of the Saeima... The responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers, and it would be very good if the Minister also turned to today's debate and made some clarification. We are now, for example, in the situations that have been in Valmiera with the extension of the territory of Valmiera... such situations may also occur in the newly created regions. There may be a situation where the newly-created region may want to change administrative boundaries in a different way. These are completely real situations to which we can come. You are voting now, relying on the Cabinet of Ministers, giving the government a mandate in principle, but a member of the government is now, at least it seems, not ready to explain these issues at all, how its order will be and how these processes will be carried out. If there is no such explanation, colleagues, then I will call for support to be given to future proposals, where something is already more defined. I think it's not normal that we just... The Saeima gives the mandate to the entire government, without even receiving from the government a minimal explanation of how all this will happen. Therefore, Mr Pouce, I call on you not to sit simply. If you have arrived today, you will have to clarify the substance of the 40th proposal, in which way the internal territories will be changed. This proposal relates specifically to proposal 40, Mr Pouce. ( Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J. Pūce: “This should have been discussed at the 40th proposal! This is 45. - reading." ) Follow me! And I call on you, not just to sit in a warm place, but to come and debate, and to explain matters to colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U27	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U28	Dear colleagues, Here, as well as in other places, the Commission unfortunately lacks consistency. It would not be possible to have such a sharp, hot discussion on this proposal if, in addition to the draft law on administrative territorial division, other draft laws, including the draft regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on how the boundaries of municipalities and cities are to be amended or will be amended. This would also help to answer the questions that are coming up here today. This concerns not only the addition to this package. It also concerns the draft law, the new draft law “On Municipalities”, which the Ministry promises for a long time, but it has been stuck at the depths of the ministries, and there is no even concept. And, in particular, when it comes to the article in the future law, which deals with autonomous functions, it also concerns the same issue as the one that was repeatedly called financing models, and so on, and so on. We will therefore spend a great deal of time today to theoreticalise rather than talk about the particular draft law. And so it would be important that really the commission motivates this thing, why we give up the built-in... from the proposal in the draft law in favour of the unclear proposal contained in the next article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U29	Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U30	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would ask you to read Article 7, which this proposal 46 provides for exclusion. And it says in the first part: “The interests of the citizens of the state and municipality, the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers and decisions of local governments are assessed when uniting or dividing the administrative territory, as well as changing its boundaries.” And the next proposal already states that "as well as the results of the public consultation of the citizens of the administrative territory". By excluding these rules, we, more rightly those who vote in favour of this proposal and who will not support the next one, will once again demonstrate that those who are now in the majority... Of course, it is democracy that the majority determines the tone of decision-making that they have... actually not interested - absolutely not interested! - citizens' interests, citizens' views, they have to be warned about what citizens think. For them, the main thing is to direct your... The key is to drive our administrative political reform. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) And this is about the proposal. Because at the moment, we completely refuse to listen to and respect citizens' interests. I call for the 46th proposal not to be supported and for the 47th proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U31	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U32	I would just like to point out that Article 6 already supported by the Saeima also contains a paragraph in Article 7, which reads as follows: “The interests of the people of the state and local government shall be assessed by merging or dividing the administrative territory and by amending its borders.” Since both the first and second paragraphs of Article 7, which the committee responsible supported deleting, are included in Article 6, which the Saeima has supported. This proposal, on 46, was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U33	Please call me! We will vote for 46. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 52, it's two, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U34	Consequently, the 47th proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U35	The debate can be held. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U36	Colleagues! This proposal must indeed be seen in the context of the previous proposal. If changes to the boundaries of municipalities are fully entrusted to the Cabinet of Ministers and... at the same time, it is noted that citizens' interests will be taken into account... then, in my opinion, it would only be logical to support such a proposal, which says that citizens should be consulted before a decision is taken. This proposal is currently not supported by the Commission. And in fact, I would say that it also largely violates the rules of the municipal charter. As of 30 October 2009, the Constitutional Court has established that, yes, it is impossible for citizens in many countries to apply the right of veto if borders are changed, but the principle of proper consultation with the local community is a very important one, because “Proposals for changes in the boundaries of administrative territories, among which mergers with other local authorities are an exceptional case, are obviously very important for local authorities and local citizens to whom they serve”. This is a quote from the interpretative part of the municipal charter on Article 5. If we declare that we will take into account the interests of the people, but do nothing to find out what its interests are, what would be the best interests of the local people, then it is probably not really clear and it is the intention of the Cabinet of Ministers to decide in the future, simply as a roll of roads across municipalities and their residents.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U37	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U38	I can only add to what my colleague said. I still call on the Minister to sit down less, but come to explain this order. ... the procedure in which this will happen, because in this case, we called for this proposal, which was not supported by the Commission, but for it to be implemented in some way. Everyone likes to talk about listening to the people that their opinions are important. Now this proposal was also about the importance of citizens' views, and public consultations should also be conducted and based on the results of these public consultations. In this bill, the commission responsible is only once - once! - in the course of the examination of the whole draft law (and to which we will arrive at some point) has supported the opinion expressed by the citizens, which was clear... the opinion expressed. On other occasions, unfortunately, I did not notice that this would be done, where population surveys would be made and the commission would decide on this. At the moment, if we are exaggerating this trend to government, I think that this trend could only expand, and if we do not make it clear in law that the outcome of this consultation... people are... The government must listen when making its decision, and we can find ourselves in a quite simple situation. If this continues, the people will not listen and their faith in the government as such will be lost. And this is already happening, there are a number of people who have already lost their faith. I call on the Saeima to ask the Saeima's responsibility questions to the government, but to put more specific recommendations on what this government is doing next and what regulations are to amend the territory.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U39	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U40	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, Minister. This proposal is 47. - it is essential that the role - passive or active - is played by the population of the corresponding territory in the event of changes to the boundaries of the territories. Those colleagues who have already spoken in the past have, by nature, tried to mark the difference between the active and passive role, because if we look at how this... how the preparation of this draft law for the second reading has taken place, then it cannot be denied that the interests of the residents of the state and municipalities have been assessed... without taking their views into account. I also had the opportunity to make sure of this when I attended the committee meeting when I was looking at Zemgale's question. MANY people who came there said very precisely that they had evaluated and believed that they should be the same. The Cabinet of Ministers had taken into account something that had not taken into account something, processed something, but formally evaluated the interests of the people, but that evaluation did not coincide with what the citizens themselves wanted. I therefore call for the third reading of this proposal, perhaps in the same Article 40, which has been supported, to be incorporated as an additional proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U41	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U42	Yes, my fellow Members, I have also spent this time reading the 39th proposal once again, but on this point, where does Mr Valaiņš at least try to return the public consultation: you hear what we have now voted on? Listen to the order! The Cabinet of Ministers obviously has nothing to do with this. There has always been a polemic about why many ministerial documents should be brought to the Cabinet of Ministers and formally approved and why they cannot be given this authority to themselves. There we are opposed to the decision of the Constitutional Court and the interpretation of the Satversme that it is therefore necessary to approve. What you've incorporated and done now is you're removing the existing order of how the municipalities have modified their territory, villages, urban borders. To date, they amended by public consultation and then by decision of the municipality to transfer the so-called title of the settlement. Now you embed that the Cabinet of Ministers will not only determine the order in which they will amend... and there is no public consultation or consultation with the public anymore. Well, maybe you can put it there! The next item is that every parish will now bring to the Cabinet of Ministers and will prepare a text on moving the 20-metre border to the left or right. Get it different than... I think politicians have not even really noticed that this is the order, but now... I'm different, but I can't name it as such a little brother. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U43	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U44	Colleagues! It is, of course, important to listen to this proposal, but there is one outstanding issue here. There is still no law on the referendum. Essentially, the population surveys that have been carried out so far - let's say that wood with two ends. We have a number of serious questions before us about adding territories to one side or the other. For example, Varaklani. There was a survey. Controversial information is coming - the survey was carried out in a forced manner, the survey was carried out correctly. What do you believe? The referendum is an instrument that will really determine the opinion of the citizens. It is also an unfulfilled work in previous Saeima. It has been under review for many years, but it has not been finally adopted... I hope that our committee, the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government, will deal with this soon. This should be reflected in the draft law - the need for a referendum. Otherwise, population surveys like such... It's difficult to trust them now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U45	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U46	The idea of referendums has already been rejected, Mr Kazinovsky, in my opinion, on Thursday or Friday. But with regard to this proposal, let us now see how we have gone. The municipality of Ikšķiles conducts a public consultation. Minister Puce suspends the public consultation. Next the question comes to the Constitutional Court. Whoever is right, I think we will only see this in the near future. Such a proposal, if supported, would make it compulsory for a public consultation to be carried out, so that it would not simply be possible to invent, do, accept that one person send a letter, create the region of Ulbroka... and I have been familiar with what examples we have had in this review. If there were normal public consultations, we could also look at the matter in some way. There are currently only a few people's untudes. This should be avoided by giving the Saeima a mandate to the government.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U47	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U48	Mr. Valaiņa has already mentioned those examples when the municipal management tried to organise population surveys and the Ministry not only did not allow the head of the municipality to listen to the opinion of the residents, but even acted actively against them. But I will give you one other example, when, in fact, quite a lot without local authorities, too, the citizens themselves... try to question the views of their citizens. Thus, for example, the Women's Rights Protection Society "Ausma", in cooperation with one of the sociological research companies, has recently carried out a survey, whether the Zemgale people are in favour of maintaining Jelgava's status as a city of importance as a republic, which we know in this reform, by adding the region to the city of Jelgava, the city will be lost, despite being one of the most active. Eighty percent of the population said that they wanted to maintain the status of the city. If it were a duty to listen to the people, perhaps the minister would also listen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U49	Thank you, Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, speaking time is over. Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U50	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues, present! Those people I have spoken to and who have spoken to me are less interested in public participation directly... on borders, but the possibility to participate regularly in your community. Citizens want to work every day, not just when they change borders. We in Latvia need to give our citizens tools for effective participation in everyday, regular, and this is not a common practice. This reform requires all municipalities to be able to finance programmes for the activities of local organisations, for the activities of local youth organisations. We must finance local non-governmental organisations at municipal level so that they can participate in municipal decision-making and so that they can travel to the Cabinet of Ministers to discuss not only borders, but also other issues. Our Cabinet is already one of the most open in Europe, and public participation there is possible on almost all issues. And already you can and must get local governments involved. It is necessary to be able to create a mechanism to also support individual activists, those who are not members of associations and who initiate ideas for the community, create ideas for maintaining identity and other things. This practice is not common throughout Latvia, and this support must be provided on a regular basis, not just before the elections, as usual. And I am not just thinking here about supporting organisations closer to municipalities. I am talking here about supporting participation in substance, and supporting these tools, their regular involvement, is a completely different kind of thinking and trusting local society. I call for this proposal to be rejected and for participation to be supported in substance.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U51	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U52	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We are debating Amendment 47... and, given that this fantastic example of the Ikskile municipal referendum, which was almost anonymous, only went to the people and said: as you have not yet taken part in the referendum... Is that so? It happened in Ikskile, Mr. Valaiņš! Perhaps we will also allow those parishes to issue their newspapers, and then we will hold local referendums, what? What? Then it will be very democratic. Oh, that's cool, isn't it? And then the tax reform that was. Played Ones... 150 million this year for municipalities, huh? And then let us hold a referendum. Then let us ask for people's views, because the parishes will have something to say at that time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Bergmann and the deposit. (M. Kučinski's intermediate names.) That's... maybe, however, change the name of the party from ZZS to the parish party. ( Insight: “Where was it to laugh? ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U53	The name of Member Janis Wuzan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U54	Mr. Bondar! I think your sarcasm is out of place at this point. But I came to the platform to object to Mr. Martin Stein. Of course, he is much younger than I am, but I hope he has read the “Times of Mayors” Brothers. I recommend that everyone read again "Merchandising times" because there is a question of changing the borders of the territories, and about that... If this question is not stated in the law, what opportunities can be opened to both the Cabinet of Ministers and municipal councils not to listen to the interests of citizens. Let’s read “The Times of Mayors”! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U55	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U56	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I heard here Mr Bondara's accusations about how much the government of Māra Kučinski spent on an information campaign on tax reform... Well, I have a question: how much has Mr Pouce spent on his information campaign? Because I remember here somehow that when I opened any website, Mr. Puce showed me a phone number - if there are any questions about reform, call me! ( Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J. Pūce: “You already have such a question... “ Well, then, let us be right, colleagues! Who has spent so much and on what, as he has informed how much it was for some of his own, so to speak, for personal praise, praise, or how? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “On the proposal!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U57	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U58	Mr Bondara is indeed a great specialist in party names, changing parties quite often. But it's not a story. The story is about one thing: the opinion of the citizens must be taken into account or not taken into account, and how it is clarified. I think I have no doubt that I have to take it into account. No one opposes this. In the form of a referendum or in any other way - this is a question of another draft law. We also have in circulation, as you remember, the law of the local referendum. It would not be wrong for us to start a debate on this draft law as well, perhaps adding to the range of issues that can be seen during the local referendums. I therefore think that, in this case, this idea cannot be rejected, because it is very important to take into account the views of the citizens. And it is very important that the Cabinet of Ministers (and here I absolutely agree with Mr Kučinska)... that assumes too much, skipping more complex issues and much more difficult issues from local government, from state development matters, because we are unfortunately speaking fragmentedly. Let's start talking and keep doing it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U59	I closed the debate. So, on behalf of the commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U60	This proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U61	So the proposal is not put to the vote, but we have debated it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U62	The next 48, too, proposal concerns already the discussions on what we are talking about - the changes to the boundaries of the administrative areas. This proposal by Mr Valaiņa, a Member, was partly supported and included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U63	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U64	Colleagues! This proposal by Mr Valaiņa is better than the 40th proposal that has been supported, as in fact it provides for more and more opportunities to amend territories. If the first part provides that the Cabinet of Ministers amends the territory internally between regions, the second part of this proposal provides that, if the municipalities have decided, the boundaries of the administrative territory shall be amended by taking a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. This would, for example, resolve the Ogres and Ikškile case that I mentioned above, that their development should, for example, be limited to a small part of the territory of the other municipality, and then, by agreement of the local authorities, could do so. I think that such a proposal would only demonstrate that we are really interested in the development of local governments, not the arrogance that Mr Bondara has just demonstrated here, from the tribunal, by criticising the previous government that 150 million have been directed to the development of local governments' regions, to the development of the well-being of the population. And, Mr. Martin Stein, you too... If you think about active involvement of the daily population in civil society movements, you should certainly listen to and support, at least in the budget for next year, our proposals that special support programmes are needed specifically for the development of regional non-governmental organisations, because you know very clearly that, at the moment, regional NGOs cannot fight against capacity, in terms of the capacity force, for funding which, to a large extent, is... To the greatest extent currently, Riga organizations are learning.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U65	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U66	Mr. Bondar! It was not 150, but more than 200 million had to be decided. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “148 exactly!” ) It was necessary to channel more than 200... regional development, so that the country would still develop not in a monocentric but polycentric way. On that... The purpose of this proposal is precisely in the second part. And that... If supported, such a proposal would, in a way, bring much more clarity to regions such as the Limbažu region, where there is currently a great deal of frustration. Also help to sort out the issue of Izkmilė with Ogri, because the question is, what is then the basic salt? If we looked at the issue of Izkile and Ogres in the Commission, then it came out that Ogre needed more development areas, and in this case it could also be decided calmly, either by maintaining their identity in the Izkeile region or by moving towards the direction decided by the people themselves, which is now formalising (at least as it was found in the negotiations) to Salaspils. A completely opposite direction to what has been set by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. In my opinion, it would have been helpful if we wanted to talk about democracy if we wanted to talk about listening to citizens. Mr Stein, you should indeed, with the strengthening of the nature of these communities, turn to the responsible minister, who is, in principle, continuing to sit and will not be involved in this debate. The question for me is, then, maybe you could have gone somewhere else to do, not just sit down today and have an empty chair, come on this platform and have a debate with us! So far, this is just a statement by the opposition, because we have not heard anything logical from our colleagues. These were only such general accusations about completely unrelated matters. This reform, Mr Stein, will directly destroy those communities that want to come together and work on a regular basis, or the second version, that it will simply complicate the development of these communities.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U67	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U68	As I said, 48 proposals were partly supported by the Commission and included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U70	The 49th proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan, provides for the exclusion of Article 8 of the draft law. It was supported by the Commission because it also regulates... it is included in Article 6, which has been supported by the Commission in its 40th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U71	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U72	Colleagues! On the one hand, this proposal by Mr Bordan is technically logical, because if the regulation on the modification of the borders as a whole is already excluded from the law, then this article is irrelevant. But in practice I think you also understand quite well: if we have all the most important issues, including changes of municipalities, establishment of centres, delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers, we set the rules of the Cabinet of Ministers and not the level of laws, then the meaning of local authority and the meaning of elected power also change in nature. As they will no longer have one significant mandate, they will rather become executive committees.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U73	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U74	Both this and the next Minister's proposal also... they have a certain meaning. They are right at the place where they are submitted, because that would be a duplication. But, in essence, the whole course of this reform... and still I call on the Minister to step up in the troupe and tell you about this same 40th proposal, how the evaluation of the Cabinet will take place... provide for such a clear direction. And also from the public debate, this direction is towards the executive committees. I do not think that this will be some kind of strengthening of democracy, on the contrary: it is a direction towards executive committees, because these are municipalities that are our... what understanding has been so far, it is quite the opposite. And also from the perspective of the development scenario... It was said here earlier that these are guises that the ZZS is trying to strengthen in some way. On the contrary, I think that this reform confuses the order of logical things outside. We can go back again, talk about... where then Jelgava is smaller than Rezekne and so on. It is the public administration that will suffer from this reform, and this direction towards the autocratic regime that is now being proposed by the minister... This is reflected in this proposal, which is also moving to proposal 40, where this clarification has still not been done in substance. What has been explained to us today from this platform... Minister has arrived, he just sits, sits down, listens. I really ask myself: for what is the Minister at all today in this Chamber? ( Interfaces: “Look at the theater! ” ; “For your interesting debate!” J. Puce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development: “ Viktor, you’re just very interesting to talk!” ) What is the point of such a minister? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar's intersacre.) We have already made a number of proposals... We call on the Minister to come. Reference is made to proposal 40, what will be the evaluation of municipalities? We can... Minister, the minister does not come to explain, instead the group's colleagues come, who are not talking about meaning, but talking about something in the sky, looking at it. So, colleagues, I am calling once again for proposal 40 - for the Minister to come and explain what the criteria for assessing the administrative areas of government will be.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U75	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U76	A really very interesting situation is emerging. One ministry has drafted a bill. It has gone through a certain conciliation procedure, has gone through the Cabinet. And then the other minister writes proposals to exclude the article in question. What does that mean? This means that there is quite a lot of complacency in the preparation of the relevant draft law. It's a lot of lad. I do not want to make the Minister sit and listen. It is very important that he comes and listens, because I hope that there will also be some conclusions from this. But the thing is about something else. We are not only talking about administrative territorial reform, we are talking about changes to the public administration system in the country, because local authorities at all their great autonomy are just one part of the public administration. And changing one element of public administration must know and understand the interaction between other public sectors. In this case, the issue has absolutely not been resolved either in the draft law itself or in the accompanying documents package, which is not available. Therefore, I think that in this case, indeed, the substance for reflection and the place for debate is, but it has to be done in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U77	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U78	Good morning, colleagues! Today's debate does not, in my opinion, make any special sense, because the debate over the last two days has shown absolutely everything. Small nuances, of course, this morning. Thank you to Mr Bondara for your consistent disrespect for the people of Latvia. I would just like to inform you that we had a meeting of the Special Parliamentary Commission this morning, which has been entrusted with deciding on administrative territorial reform, and the only conclusion that comes from today's Commission meeting is that (Mr Kazinovsky, I can assure you) we will not have the second level municipalities. This is the main thing, and in principle, those 40 municipalities that will be created by the vote of the ruling coalition, with some changes... because we all know excellent how and what is happening these days in relation to the borders of certain municipalities. This will also be all because this reform is absolutely political, with political objectives, and it is not talking about the well-being of any citizen and, in particular, respecting citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U79	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U80	I cannot fully agree with what some opposition colleagues have said that this debate makes no sense. I think it makes sense, and the main point is to show the opposition how much this reform is actually a big brother. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “On the proposal!” ) At present, when looking at this proposal and the five previous proposals, we can see that this sitting of the Saeima, too, reflects the way in which the entire procedure for preparing this reform has been carried out. The wise, the wise, the Minister, sits, and then there are the others who can say everything. I would believe it if there were no tractors on the streets (Dep. J. Malt: “Where is it?” ) and if the streets were not very dissatisfied with this directional process. Your wisdom will soon be reflected, and these protests will show that citizens are not satisfied with this administrative territorial reform. But you are now just approving this in this parliamentary Chamber. It's not that you're the smartest and there's the smartest, and here's the other side, you don't understand anything. Colleagues, I invite you to respond to our criticisms.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U81	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U82	In the Commission, proposal 49 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U83	Please call me! We will vote for 49. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 52, it's two, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U84	Consequently, the 50th proposal tabled by the Minister for VARAM, Mr Puce, is also supported because it is identical.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U85	And neither is it possible to vote, but the debate is possible. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U86	Colleagues, citing “The Times of Mayors” mentioned today: “...languages for men have power in the hand!” And in the context of this proposal with all the others, which provides that the entire delegation for the establishment of the borders, the establishment of the centre and the status of the centre are to be returned to the Cabinet of Ministers, it must in fact be translated that the only speakers and those who have the power in their hands are in Brīvības iela 36 - in the Cabinet of Ministers. It could also be entrusted to the Cabinet of Ministers if it were really certain that the existing government had good intentions that it really wanted strong regions, developed municipalities and residents in the regions. But after all the things that have been heard today, what I've heard before, I don't think that's right. Bondars' permission to criticise the fact that 150 million were diverted to the development of municipalities two years ago, Paviluts from the tribunal says that the feudal system and junzists, which are currently in the country, should be terminated, in fact saying that he is not interested in the existence of strong municipalities. Many municipalities and most municipalities, although small, are able to handle their functions very well, and there is no need to shift their borders to make them stronger. The government itself has not now put forward any regional development programmes when moving beyond the borders. Even for housing. If you are really all here in the Rungains theory, who says that for all those who have not yet moved to Riga, it is the last time to load the suitcases and do so, then at least think about where they will live when they leave the district to their local regional centre? Where will there be apartments? Where will there be housing? We heard Altum statistics just this morning that 80 percent of all transactions in the housing support programme take place in Riga, Kurzeme - eight percent, Latgale - two percent. Where will their strong municipalities then, if you don't move your finger to give them an instrument to become stronger, but every day you come here in the camp, and you're talking about the heads of the municipalities without listening to the people who drive not only with tractors, but make meetings of the population, write letters. The minister tells us on television that he was traveling to meetings of the population where the greatest displeasure?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is the purest lie, Minister! ( Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J. Pūce: “Nave!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U87	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U88	I could trust that Cabinet of Ministers, but why I do not want to trust it (Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development J. Pūce: “Because you are not there!” ) and yet want some clarity? First of all, because I believe that the honourable Minister could come and show whether he has a general understanding of what the municipality is. Because now, even in the course of the examination of the draft law, on the part of the Ministry, I more than... At least three to four times in the commission, I asked a question: who is the municipality? I asked the Ministry what is the municipality? Colleagues! Was the Ministry able to answer this simple question if we were talking about the Law on Administrative Areas and settlements? Such a clear answer from the Ministry - the municipality is what is stipulated in the law and performs the functions of the municipality... statutory functions. It's a municipality. The perception of the Ministry and the honourable Minister, who unfortunately did not honour this Commission with our presence when we looked at the territories, but only arrived at the first and last sitting (Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J. Pūce: “Previous!” ), but everything that happened in the middle - there didn't even take part... I... The position of the Ministry was quite simple: the municipality is the centre of development. Development center - not administrative center, but development center! And there must be a municipality around it. That is the only point. And, in my opinion, if we follow such criteria when creating administrative territories, and even more so, we trust the Cabinet to build... and if they keep such an approach to building local governments, colleagues, then we get a situation that we can make one local government in Latvia – the local government of Latvia! And what do we even have to share? And it won't be... There will be no Members at all... We will leave 100 Members, we will elect the Heads of Executive Committees from the Saeima. You can do this yourself! You don't like Jelgava, Ventspils... all the opportunities you will have! You will elect Mr. Geidan in Jelgava as Executive Director (Dep. A. Geidāns: “Who will be now in Jelgava?” ), something else else. Colleagues! That's the direction in which you're moving now, well... Well, what... Mr Feldman, you may be appointed Executive Director in Valmiera, and there will be normal times of the Soviet Union back! It's gonna be okay! On the rollers of the executive director. This is the direction in which you are going, a planned economy. The basic instrument for establishing a municipality from VARAM... expressed by the Ministry... the committee responsible is the centre of development. In all cases where municipalities offered other profiles - why not support? Because of the development center. Sorry, yes, Saulkrasti was an exception, but there we know others... We all know the reason. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Maltist: “What do we know?” ) Therefore, colleagues, at this point in time, I believe that the only exception that has been made for these areas has been a derogation from the development centre only in the case of the Saulkrasti. And... but as logical other proposals were not supported by the commission. So my conclusion is that the government does not understand what the municipality is.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U89	Mr Valaiņš, the debate is over. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U90	On the other hand, the direction in which you go, Mr Valaiņš, is to slow down development. This is an excellent proposal to demonstrate it. We just... just as the Saeima supported the 49th proposal made by the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan. “ It’s Poke’s proposal! Beans!’ ) In this case, the proposal cannot be voted on, but it is, of course, very important for you to have a long time, to talk about a very large number of different things only in order to hinder development and administrative territorial reforms (interface.) adoption, which I think is totally unacceptable. If we look at it too... to some development scenarios, how to ensure development, the Latvian National Development Plan has approved 300 million roads for the administrative programme (Dep. U. Plant: ‘Where is it approved?’ ) territorial reform and three years of marked money to put the roads in order. However, if we are talking about money, there is a very important aspect to mention here. Here we see revenue and population changes from the municipal financial equalisation fund, and the figures for 2018, 2019 and 2020 are very well reflected in this graph. Increase in the special grant for municipalities. What you need to understand is that every Latvian citizen has paid for the ZZS tax reform... and in such a way as to enable the municipalities to compensate for the shortfall in the IIN in their revenue. And now to talk about how problems are created... The problems have already been created not only three years ago, but also in advance. But that, I think, is most unacceptable that we are... that reform... that as a result of the tax reform, a financial gap has been recognised that absolutely every Latvian citizen has to pay from his pocket so that municipalities can operate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U91	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U92	Mr. Plūšs' excellent speech also shows that you can give everything to the Cabinet of Ministers, everything! (Laughter) Except... By taking on... taking into account the two risks. The first risk is something that is particularly evident in the existing Cabinet of Ministers: that the pike, swan and cancer have been concentrated there, and about that is what the government is doing. The second risk is much more serious. It is a risk that, unfortunately, ministers have only political responsibility, which does not reveal anything, and we can see how, let us say, Muižniece... I am sorry, President-in-Office... as Mrs Šuplinska fights against the Muiznieks, naturally, for the protection of national interests. ( Milestones.) And there are, unfortunately, many examples of this. Therefore, when commissioning or entrusting to the Cabinet of Ministers to solve certain problems, it should also be borne in mind that this level of responsibility is excellently high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U93	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U94	Hello, dear colleagues! We see a bright example of what happens if the Saeima Member is allowed to receive remuneration elsewhere in parallel to work in the Saeima (in particular, I am talking about Viktoras Valaini, who receives a second salary in the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia) and allows him to regularly defend the interests of his employers from the tribunal here. The question is, is he working here for the country or for his employer? ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) Therefore (Internal references.) I'm calling...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U95	Speak, please, on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U96	... Victor Valaini not to discredit himself and...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U97	On the proposal, please speak, Mr Bhutan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U98	... Proposals (Interface: On the proposal!) )... Specifically, this proposal... I call for this proposal to be supported. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U99	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U100	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Of course, we can climb into a platform and speak of all kinds of foolishness that come into our mind, but I would call on Mr Pleis to step up again in a platform and to say concretely where there are 300 million roads, because so far no one in any place... Not a minister... not in the Ministerial Responses... there is no evidence of such a place of 300 million. This is simply a case of misleading people. At the same time, prepared by the Ministry... prepared leaves that were on each new county... to the committee meeting... I would ask the Ministry to look at and recalculate. I have counted some regions, and by putting together, by the combined budget and by financial equalisation, there are municipalities where the proceeds to municipalities from financial equalisation exceed 300 thousand more than is currently the case. So that I would really ask before we talk about reform, about changes, about benefits, but recalculate and look at exactly what this reform then gives us.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U101	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U102	Mr Plūšs, when heeding this page as a equalisation fund, you could have shouted the other page, where it can be seen that after the reform none of the municipalities that are currently being awarded will change their status, will continue to be poor after the reform that you are proposing. And that is why, in the tax reform too, we reduced labour taxes on low-wage earners. The beneficiaries of low wages are also located in the regions. And they were the greatest winners. This is, of course, the opposite of Development/About! tasks and objectives, because the first job they did when they arrived here in the Saeima was that they reduced the solidarity tax - the tax on the rich! They are not interested in regions, they are not interested in the less prosperous people of Latvia. Mr Ples, the ZZS is not against development. ZZS is against the development/Par! of the political force not for the benefit of Latvian citizens.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U103	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U104	Hello, colleagues! I don't know now if I can tell you the truth from this platform, that through the mouth of nedadon (Applause.) , but I'll try. Mr. Butane, you said that there are some people working for their employer because they have a job. I would like to say that this is really very important. Such a remark from you, Mr. Butane, is because... Yeah, Victor Valainy, who's ready... and you can see that he is competent for municipal matters... and therefore it is necessary to wish him in Riga City Council elections as a mayor...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U105	Please speak on the proposal. Mr Gobzem, on the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U106	Just don't touch me with a hammer, Mrs. Moore!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U107	Please address the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U108	But, Mr. Butane, so relatively you say that Mr. Valaiņš has a job... You're...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U109	On the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U110	... The bankruptcy procedure was before you became Parliamentary Secretary. The only one...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U111	You are excluded because you are not talking about the proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Mr. Mourniece, listen... ) Regina Lochmele-Lunova, Member. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Mr. Mūrniece, listen to the end!” ) We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. ( Internouncing call.) Please leave the table! You did not talk about the proposal. ( Internouncing call.) No, you didn't talk about the proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzem: "Mr. Mourniece, you didn't listen, you didn't hear! You had to listen!” ) To Regina Lochmele-Lunova, Member. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzem: “Mr. Mourniece, I have two more minutes!” ) A technical break of five minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U112	Dear colleagues, Let us continue the debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U113	I hope, my fellow Members, that you still have the respect for our employer - they are citizens. When the Parliamentary Secretaries of the two ministries spoke here, precisely within the framework of this proposal, I was looking forward to providing very accurate and all necessary information on the numbers... 300 million... He's already mentioned from this platform. Indeed, the members of the commission tried to find out which ministry currently has this money at its disposal. At least it's planned. There is no answer to this point. The Ministry of Transport says that they don't have this money, but MANY makes it very suspicious and quiet. It's like it is, but where it's not exactly possible to point it out. That is the first point. Second. Even if there are these 300 million, what can we do to develop the newly created regions and also to develop the country as a whole? I asked the question: what exactly are the routes and how many of their routes could we repair with 300 million? Will they be roads with hard surfaces? Does this amount include bridge repairs? There was no answer. The representatives of VARAM replied that about 300 million, according to their estimates, could repair 800 kilometres of road across Latvia. If we split 800 miles [40 km] to 40 newly created municipalities, each municipality will have 20 kilometres [20 km] from this entire km. The information that we have heard from the municipalities shows that it is the road situation that is now one of the most serious problems in all reforms, both in terms of the reform of the school network, because it will be necessary to bring every child to school and about the area of health where there will be a question - which and by which transport will bring the individual sick to the hospital. That is why I will ask again from this troupe the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport and the Parliamentary Secretary of the VARAM to provide the people of Latvia and members of the Saeima with accurate information about this amount of 300 million.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U114	Mrs. Luņova, the speaking time is over. Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U115	After these speeches, I am even obliged to answer. Mr Plesh, Parliamentary Secretary for the High-Freight VAR! You are, however, on paper, and I will also prepare my own paper for the next debate. But the question is whether you even understand what is reflected there in the paper you were in there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “On the proposal!” ) Does this reform and government position make any difference at all? And my answer is - no, absolutely nothing will change! There will be no change in the timetable you set out, and you will not change anything with such a reform offer either. And that is what we are always trying to point out to you here: that this reform must be different. And this government decision... confidence in the government is wrong at this point, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U116	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U117	In the debate on the proposal in question, I would remind you: it is Minister Jurs Pouce's proposal to exclude Article 8 of the draft law from the numbering of future articles accordingly. During the discussion on this proposal, the head of the commission, the head of the commission responsible, saw a link to the appearance of 300 million. By excluding Article 8 from the law 300 million will be obtained. On the way... No, no... Exactly! I think we still have quite a lot of articles, and we will also close it right away (Applause.) ... we will also close verse 9 very soon. I would ask you every time you close an article out, to tell you what money we have found for you, because by continuing this, we will certainly also find medical staff, teachers and everyone else... Let's just be certain, consistent! I won't mention that this is... The exclusion of Article 8 led, as Mr Butane says, to a debate on where Viktor Valainis works. It's also a fantastic performance. Why do I say all this? I would call if we were to say that we should talk about the proposal... that we would treat everyone equally. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) First, if there are 300 million, then for each of the next proposals... Well, if we see an opportunity to talk about who works and where to pay by excluding the article, then let everyone speak the same way in the future, just as meaningfully as we have worked so far, up to proposal 50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U118	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U119	Yes, I wanted to complement my colleague Didy Schmidt. And why am I on the podium? I also supported Viktoras Valaiņa's point of view and I would simply like to point out: when the coalition speaks... and, for example, Butāns is not talking about the proposal and comes to his personal insult in the direction of Valaiņš, who is debateing constructively - then Mrs Mūrniece does not turn off the microphone. When the opposition indicates it - then turn off the microphone. The Speaker of the Saeima may not be politically interested on one side. The Speakers of the Saeima must be neutral. That's...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U120	Talk, please, about the specific proposal. Go back to 50. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant: “Let me say it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U121	What I am going on with this proposal... What I wanted to say to this proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U122	Be so kind!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U123	What I wanted to say on this proposal is that I support Viktoras Valaiņš's proposal (Dep. Mr Ples: "It is a minister's proposal!" ), but I would call on the Speaker of the Saeima to be politically neutral. This is your duty!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U124	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U125	Yes, this proposal, 50, is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U126	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U127	51. The proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņa provides for the addition of a new article on the procedure for submitting documents, how territorial classifications can be made, and the decision on the status of settlements. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U128	Colleagues! Let us start the debate after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for reading the results of the registration to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as the results are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U129	Not registered: Members Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivars... I'm sorry, Ivan Clementyev, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze... is, Linda Ozola, Igor Pimenov, Ivan Ribakov, Karina Sprūde, Juta Strīķe, Lubova Švecova (Dep. L. Švecova: “I am!” )... Yes, Ivars Zarins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U130	Thank you. Interruption until 12 noon. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U131	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. I invite Members to take their seats in the Saeima Chamber! Debate on proposal 51 Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U132	Colleagues! Proposal No 51 In essence, it is already included in the 40th proposal, but I think it would be much more precise in the order in which the documents are submitted... and in this case - to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with establishing the procedure for preparing and submitting documents for the decision on the determination of the administrative territorial division and status of settlements. At the moment, the 40th proposal does not fully state whether there will be any possibility for administrative areas to be put in place if they want to join voluntarily or want to divide voluntarily. In my opinion, such a procedure should apply to the law... This proposal also provides for this with the task of preparing it for the Cabinet of Ministers, as it is not clearly stated in the relevant law and no clear answer is given to it in the proposal 40. My proposal would be to support it, because in the draft law... There are also situations where... we're going to get there objectively... that there are a number of territories which, in their decisions, have indicated opposing points of view - the opposite points of view on whether or not to unite. In this case, there may also be a situation where... Although the Saeima believes that it would be more national to work together in these territories, it may result in an objective failure of its territories to cooperate, the composition of Members is unable to reach common decisions and certain differences arise. Therefore, clear arrangements should be provided for how proposals for the division of the areas concerned could also be made within the administrative territory of the municipality, and this should be clear at present. I believe that the 40th proposal does not make this clear. And the question is, where's Minister Puce left? ( Milestones.) Could it be explained how this procedure could be ensured through proposal 40? I think... I would call for support for this proposal because, as I have already said, there will be situations in nature where this brother here... when the local authorities will want to change this crèches, which are presented in the annex to this draft law. There must be a clear order in which this can be done, because this is not the case... the draft law will be one that will really have a negative impact.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U133	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U134	In the Commission, 51 proposals were not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U135	Please call me! We will vote for 51. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no quorum. So... Please call me! Please register the Members! ( Milestones.) Please get the result! ( Milestones.) Please call again! Please register the Members! Please get the result! 72 members have registered. So there's a quorum in the hall. ( Milestones.) So we are voting again on Amendment 51. Please call me! We will vote for 51. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Milestones.) No, no, no, 50, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U136	Proposal 52 has been tabled by the Minister for the Environment and Regional Development, Mr Puce, and this is about to exclude Article 9 of the draft law. This was supported because these issues are also dealt with in the already widely discussed article 6... Proposal No 40.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U137	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U138	I think this is a very important article, and here too, some kind of Minister's reaction is needed if we do not support this... I would call for this proposal not to be supported, however, because Minister Puce has now, as it seems, gone somewhere else. ( Impressions: “To perform your duties! ” ; “The sitting of the Government!” ) And the question is, why did Minister Puce sit here all morning and never have to explain it? The question still remains about the 40th proposal and the government's follow-up. Now we have a situation where territories are not only merged... there should be a clear vision of how the financial... This is the wealth of these territories, which, in a sense, is the 40th proposal... is included inside... And, objectively speaking, about these territories... If one territory is combined with another territory, then it is in some way... has been tried to provide a solution. But for the territories to which some part of the territory is taken (and such proposals are there for us in this draft law), the 40th proposal does not provide a clear answer... the manner in which the division of financial assets will take place. This proposal is directly... This article is specifically about the way in which financial assets are shared in the populated areas where they are distributed at municipal level. In my opinion, this has not been answered. Maybe on behalf of the commission... I did not hear from the rapporteur responsible how this would happen. You are talking only about territories as a whole, but not about those territories... Let's assume this same case of Limbažu - there is removed from Skulte parish. Is the question clearly understood how the financial reallocation to Skulte parish will take place further - to Saulkrasti? Because they are the total financial resources of all Limbažu residents, which have been invested in this particular parish. The same applies to Strenchi. Is there a clear answer now? You know what? And the question is not, as I mentioned earlier, about the municipality of Aglona, because the municipality of Aglona has agreed to this division. And there is also the way in which they agree to divide this region. Areas where there is no agreement... It is quite clear that the region will not agree to any assets moving away from another region. There must therefore be a clear vision for the government as to how the reallocation of financial assets will take place. Proposal No 40 does not respond to this. That is why I am calling today for a minister who is no longer present in this Chamber... He came, sat down, but he didn't tell anything about Amendment 40. Then there's the question: what's the point... Why did he even come here?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U139	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U140	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that we had discussions in the Commission on the redistribution of these assets, on the reallocation of liabilities, and it was pointed out that the Cabinet would determine this order (Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “When? When?’ ) to ensure that it is as effective and better solved as possible. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U141	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 52. - the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 53, no, 10, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U142	Thank you. We're coming to chapter 3 in the bill... settlements. The proposal put forward by Mr Valaiņa is intended to express the types of settlements in a different wording from that proposed in the draft law. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U143	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U144	In the current version, colleagues, in Article 3 propose that the types of settlements in Latvia are cities, villages, small villages, singles. I propose adding types of settlements: capital, cities, centres of national importance... and return the ‘street’ and ‘street’ in this version. Colleagues, in my view, this proposal is more focused on marking, in some way, smaller areas and highlighting the role of the capital as a whole in the process of discussing this draft law. I would like to pay particular attention to cities as centres for development of national importance. Today morning, we had a meeting of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, where we also discussed this issue. And this proposal was not supported by the fact that the centres of development of national importance should be provided for in another law. Today, we debated at one and a half o'clock in the morning that the law on spatial planning also appears not to be the right place to talk about centres of national importance for development. But at the same time, other places where it could be recorded... It is only now proposed that these development centres be designated by regional development law. But why is it important to talk about this right now? Because the whole appendix to the bill talks about the fact that territories are formed around development centres. There is no mention here of what is the centre of development. An administrative centre is mentioned but not a development centre. I suggest, however, that somewhere be placed in this development centre, so that then there will also be a further debate... the assessment would still have a point of reference. What is the centre of development? That's something... referred to in the LIAA strategy - development centres. The only document, where it is mentioned, is what we are also following. But in the draft law, when creating an annex, for example, Kandava municipality was not supported as an independent region. The only real argument was that there is no development centre there. That's it! Nothing else was mentioned as an argument why one or other county cannot be formed. With Iecava municipality, the same is true - there is no development centre, so it was not possible to create a logical municipality. the novads of Sēlijas, Well then, colleagues, in some place it must be mentioned what is then and what is not the center of development. That is why I would call for this proposal to be supported, because there is... Then at least one place will be mentioned that we have one, let's say, the beast, the development centre, which is basically based on the entire annex... the criteria for creating a card. There are simply no other criteria. The rest is simply drawn behind the ears.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U145	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U146	We don't have the first time... It is true that such an interesting situation develops regularly. The original text contains cities, villages, small villages, singles, but there are no big cities that... we have voted what the big cities are. It's not listed at all. Mr. Valaiņš' proposal also highlights the capital... cities, centres of national importance, perhaps the big cities, although I am not sure. I came to mind the analogy we set with regard to status. Remember, there was such a game – “You want to be a millionaire?” . Both have seen at least one such game. There is a question, and then there are four options for answers. There are also three additional options: 50 to 50, call a friend - expert and opinion of the medicine. Let us assume that we are on the 12th issue, the decisive one, the most important one, the opportunities have not been exhausted. Let us assume that the question is - which is a big city. Select one of the four cities (previously - the cities of the republic). And response options - Jelgava, Rezekne, Ventspils and Valmiera. And all three options. What is usually done? Usually in such situations choose to make it simpler - 50 to 50. What's left over for us? Ventspils and Rezekne. There's no Jelgava, Valmiera too. It's like, on the one hand, a simple question, but it's difficult. So big, it doesn't mean you're big, but it doesn't mean you're little. Because sometimes it's that a little one is a little one, but he wants to be very big. The smallest of the four, Valmiera, is out. The biggest of the four - Jelgava - too. There's two left. The game manager, Arthur Tom Pellez, says: “No, no! If you thought there were political criteria, there are no political criteria." As you can see, Ventspils... ZZS, Jelgava - also... One out, one in! Well, what are we doing? A call to a friend. We're calling. Then the question is, do you still have a friend? (Laughter) The options are big - 50 for 50. Most likely you will hear: “The phone is turned off or is outside the capture area.” I think that this is largely outside the capture area. The last one is to ask the hall. ( Interface: “20 seconds! ” ) There are also only two options - either the hall understands what they are doing or does not understand. That's what we'll see... we can see now, but then - because bright. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U147	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U148	Colleagues! At the moment, it is planned that all cities of national importance, or major cities, are centres of national importance. And it is very good with the principle that we want to develop Latvia polycentricly, so that one head of water does not form Riga, but that there are enough good living standards in the regions and people would live there. The new law... In fact, the draft law removes the status of the centre of national importance for other cities, both for large and municipal cities. This means that they will remain second-class cities forever or at least in the near future. This means that we have little interest in regional development. Well, it is true that we also see this in the National Development Plan. If we now have GDP per capita as a key criterion in regional development, then it is most easy to achieve it, of course, if the population falls. Why do I say that? Because there is no development instrument for regional development together with this reform. And with this move that we are also taking away the status of a centre of national importance for these cities, we are, in fact, showing that we are not interested in regional development. I call for thought to be given to this and, however, for this mistake to be corrected. That is why I also like Mr. Valaiņa's proposal, which... Right here, in the law, says that all the cities - the big cities, the municipalities... As we end up there, let's leave all the fights... those who will be the big, the municipalities... all of them are centres of national importance for development. This will mean that we care about balanced development of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U149	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U150	Perhaps Mr. Plesha could then be able to have clarity on behalf of the Commission, to explain what is then the centre of development of national or regional importance; what led in principle the Commission and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to propose these reforms... map... Annex I.B. And if the Saeima wants to change something, where should it be changed? Because the annex that is now being proposed is actually based on the fact that there must be a development centre - not an administrative centre, but a development centre! - but this law makes no mention of what it is - the centre of development. What is the centre of development is mentioned in completely other government planning documents, which have also been approved by the Saeima decision, but that Saeima decision has been made, either, the return of one four five Saeima has already been approved. In my opinion, some clarity should be introduced in this whole case.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U151	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U152	In the Commission, proposal 53 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U153	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 53. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 52, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U154	The 54th proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens/ Farmers Union was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U155	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U156	The proposal provides that urban development planning documents of the municipality can be identified as development centres of national importance. In a way, this proposal would also help the coalition to legalise in some way, so that the newly created region of Saulkrasti remains with the criteria, and... because it makes it possible to name the new regions as... give this development centre status. Or, for example, create... Ogre will be given the status of the National Development Centre; it is a district city, a rather large city, however. There are, however, some differences in their functional life. In my opinion, with this proposal, we would have an additional effect if the Saeima, when deciding on the relevant regions, decided differently from what the commission had decided, for example, by voting in favour of the creation of the Kandava district. That is one example. Everything can happen. The Saeima can make such a decision. This proposal would give you a road map that could... would, in principle, be obliged in a way to establish the status of the development centre for this newly created area. In my view, according to the model of its formation, which the government has guided, could certainly have built up this supplement... this map, as it has happened in the case of Saulkrasti; could have made a complete... the track according to the real... the specific nature and development scenarios of the municipality, while preserving the nature of municipalities in some way, and this proposal could simply give them the status of the development centre. And it immediately shows the attitude of the government and the state towards the particular territory. One example: Colleagues, this commission supported the establishment of the Livani district. Līvāni Municipality was given the status of the National Development Centre. In urban areas, politics was directed to Livani district, and as a result, the entire commission unanimously praised how beautiful Livani region has evolved. But it has developed precisely for this small reason that it was already given the status of national importance. And there immediately flowed some kind of investment. And such status and the creation of such policy planning documents can be extended to any municipality, even to the municipality of Lower Kurzeme, and can also be extended to the municipality of Rēzekne. The city already has this, but why not give it to the municipality? The region can develop peacefully in a polycentric model and also achieve high goals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U157	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U158	Colleagues! In my opinion, it is good for politicians to leave more flexibility for themselves in policy-making. Then you're in a much better position. Then you can really do it, not rely on the will or understanding or interests of the officials. And that is also the case here. This proposal provides that municipalities can - can! - establish national development documents, policy-makers documents as national development centres. What would that give us? First, it would allow these municipalities or centres of national development to start up in urban development programmes, attract additional funding. Secondly, I think that would allow us to demonstrate that our National Development Plan and other programming documents are really focused on regional development. At present, the annex to the National Development Plan contains such an Excel table with a long project spreading. Most of the major projects are directed - where? Riga. If we had a chance... You have a chance... also to identify national development centres in the regions, you would also be smarter and set out in the National Development Plan specific investment projects to strengthen national development centres. Riga, as a capital, of course, makes sense to concentrate resources, and many things need to be done in Riga. But what you have to understand is that Riga is also much more powerful and able to attract financing from central... European programmes; this will never be done in Jelgava, Valka and other urban areas.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U159	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U160	Colleagues! Here today, there has already been a number of words called polycentric development. And indeed this proposal deals with the polycentric development of Latvia, which appeared for the first time in the country planning documents, if I am not mistaken, when many years ago we worked on the first National Development Plan. At the time, Maris Kučinskis was the Minister responsible for developing this plan. And the fact that this principle of development centres was incorporated into national planning documents - I believe that at that time it was the way we were able to maintain that economic and not only economic but also cultural and all other development and life as such takes place not only in the capital Riga, but also in the regions of Latvia. But this proposal has a different nature. You probably know that there are laws that concern the public domain and that there are laws that concern private law. And with regard to private law, everything that is not prohibited can be done, whereas with regard to the public domain it is only possible to do what is permitted. And therefore, I think it is very important that this law would record that in national planning documents municipalities can be given the status of a national development centre. Because if there is no such sentence, then tell me on what basis will the Cabinet of Ministers or any other institution working with it have received a mandate to grant someone such a national development centre status at all? Thank you. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U161	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U162	The rapporteur for the Commission responsible for the previous proposal did not explain anything; he only called for rejection, but perhaps, on behalf of the Commission, for this proposal to explain how the newly created region of Saulkrasti would come to the... what is the map of the road, how Saulkrasti novads will reach the status of the development center. Because the explanatory memorandum to the bill mentions the creation of territorial development centres. Then the question is, what is the road map? The question is not clear at the moment. Today, we came to the committee responsible in the morning to see that the option offered by the National Alliance is not good again, we need another law... And a reasonable concern is that when you get to another law... We will once again understand that we do not need to be here at all. To the next proposals, I will explain in more detail why.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U163	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U164	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear Members, Now again we're talking about big cities... big or small cities, I don't know... rural areas. And I still... Listening to the rhetoric of the Greens/Farmers Union, I feel that with the words "regional development" you understand the development of these cities. We're looking a little bit wider. With the words "regional development" and "regional development" we understand the development of cities and the regions around them. And that is why it is important that these cities are united with the regions. We can see that it is already a reality that people from rural areas often work in these cities... surrounding rural areas. These cities have actually grown up - as a hand-held glove - together with the regions. And actually in almost all of these cities... the administrative areas are located in the urban areas themselves, including, therefore, the local authorities... So... around... these municipalities... thus also in urban areas. So, in fact, I do not see the need for any more subtle breakdown. Is it really what we want: that the big cities, which speak out loud about their own local government, are developing at the expense of the inhabitants of the surrounding and rural areas, leaving rural areas behind? In my opinion, it is the right principle of development (and this has been demonstrated, for example, by Denmark, Ireland) that connecting the big and the... no matter what... the city together, this municipality with rural territory, only contributes to the development of the city itself, as well as the development of the surrounding rural area. And it's not right to talk here about some second-class cities. It is not right to talk here about restricting access to funds for these cities, which will not now be big cities or cities of Republican importance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola intermediate call: “Why don’t create... ?” ) We look to ensure that the whole territory of Latvia is developed smoothly and that all inhabitants of Latvia benefit from this administrative territorial reform. And this is not just about the development of Riga or another particular city. This is about steady development in the whole territory of Latvia. So you don't have to sow this... In such a panic population that losing the status of a big city is a terrible thing! That is not the case. It's normal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “He did not say any words about the proposal!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U165	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U166	Dear President, Honourable Members! Some remarks to the illusions that if Riga does not develop, these towns or municipalities will develop, or something else. Riga is concentrated (depending on the cost - on the output or after tax) from 60 to 70 percent of the economy. And the problem is quite different, to which I want to draw your attention. Riga loses competition (this is the Baltic Sea) with Helsinki, Stockholm and Copenhagen. And if Riga loses economically, because there are no more large investments here, then the losers are also regions, the losers are all the outermost regions of Latvia. Why does Riga lose? Because the number of inhabitants of Riga is decreasing... Over 600,000... 650, maybe... It's on paper. But Helsinki... That's to count... And any investor (e.g. foreign) looks at: urban Helsinki - 1.1 million, Stockholm - 1.3 million, Copenhagen - more than 1.6 million... Then what city will he go to? And if we're in Riga... if we do not create Riga, capital, territory with, say, Marupi, with all these... covering Riga... I mean, even in the off-road range... it's a minimum, then it would be 750... more than 750 thousand... then the future of Riga, according to Eurostat, is unfortunately very sad, because the population will fall below 600 thousand. To your knowledge: Vilnius currently has 580 thousand, where it grows much faster, and Tallinn has also exceeded 500 thousand... That is why the future is quite different. And if we do not develop Riga, then we will not be able to develop the surrounding areas as well. It's an illusion that there should be something down here or something else... So... This law does not provide for this norm, but it is necessary to think about how to increase the territory of Riga in order to compete internationally. It's already far behind Helsinki. Besides, Helsinki... is a agglomeration with Tallinn; it already consists of about 1.6-1.7 million... a business agglomeration. Financially it is a 10 times larger agglomeration. And we tell fairy tales and we cherish illusions that we will not give up and that we will not leave the third-class province!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U167	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U168	The idea behind this proposal is the right one. The need to change the list of what is currently in place with the 9 + 21... There are currently two things that I do not like in this proposal. One is that only national centres are spoken about, that regional centres are not mentioned. The other thing is that this phrase is sufficiently declarative that can be determined... Mr. Valaiņš, while working in the Commission, knows that the National Association, both in this law and in the Territorial Development Planning Act, offered specifically that the State... according to what map we remain, we set these regional and national centres, and even international centres, in order to rule out these speculations around Latvia's sustainable development strategy by 2030, which was adopted before the five Saeima; that we really record this current situation, we identify new regional centres of national importance, maybe we also review something in some case. It seems to me that it is more important to vote on this obligation to define these new centres of national and regional importance (and in particular the annex). And I do not see another meaningful solution for how this reform can then be put into practice if we have municipalities where there is no centre of regional importance. For example, in the municipality of Lower Courland... I really believe that the outskirt can be such a center. Of course Liepaja will remain as a centre of national importance with more functions, but, for example, Aizpute must be a centre of regional importance. And it could look for examples elsewhere in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U169	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U170	I would like to agree with Mr Dombrava that the law should speak not only about centres of national importance, but also about centres of regional importance. But that is why I think it would be wise to support, at least, the possibility of creating them at the present time. And then, at third reading, it can be turned into an obligation. If we do not support this proposal at all, it means that we are not interested in establishing these categories in the law. Mr Dūris, in my opinion, you have not understood the substance of this proposal. This proposal does not refer to the fact that it is bad for cities to build municipalities or that it is bad for cities to add cities to them. You are right - already now many cities are the centres of development where... residents of the outermost regions go there, work, enjoy culture and other benefits. And this proposal specifically provides that these development centres, which we, as Heads of State, also believe, must be strengthened, could be designated as national development centres.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U171	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U172	Dear colleagues, There is a saying in the East: If you often repeat the word ‘halva’, your mouth does not stay more sweet. We are talking today about an administrative territorial division. And in this case, we've been all the time... talk about development, about development... Development/About! ... There is no development of this. Because it determines (Laughter) (Applause) ... Well, this is determined by very different laws and regulations. All due respect to Mr. Valaiņš' ideas, which are very often heard and heard today! I do not think that from the fact that we will mark the name of the National Development Centre in the territorial division law - that it will accelerate development. I don't think so! But one serious moment here is about which I have already mentioned a few times today – that this is one of the laws (one of the laws!) , which should be seen in the package with others, including the law governing regional development. And there would be a place for these national centres. Why not here, but there? That's why... Just as the proposal goes on... Defining what is the town of the district, here also the idea that it is the centre of national development can change, because life dictates changes in our economies and other areas. So... Today we set out in the law that it is the centre of national development, but it could be lost - for objective reasons - tomorrow. Similarly, if we are talking about municipalities, with at least 2000 inhabitants, we are now putting into law a moment that will then lead to what... on the basis of the existing law of the lame, where several cities do not qualify for this status. Because if there's no 2000 people there, or 1950... we eliminated this status... Not at all. It is a settlement, and other criteria must probably be sought. It is also imperative that the criteria for a large city be included in the wording. Because there is no political solution, it's geography. It's very hard to fight geography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U173	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U174	However, when you do something or correct it, you need to look at what was done wrong in the past. And if we look at the previous administrative territorial reform that led to this number of municipalities, which was reduced from the previous one, five times... its main problem was not the law; the law was actually of high quality. The problem was that... and it was also criticised objectively by the Calvary Government, it was that they just at the last moment to do something... in order to have done something at last, took the Phlomaticster and the voluntari drew the Latvian map - the one it is now. Walluntar! By going beyond the criteria, all the criteria... common criteria for the territory. Which was the first criterion, in at least two places in violation, and all the others in the population... development centre and so on. In my opinion, correcting the error and bringing the matter right... It is right to do what was not done at the time, namely to respect the criteria and to follow some principles and logical formula. Instead, this proposal (with another one that will probably be rejected) is another example... it is even... not a proposal, but an attitude to the proposal, as to the big city criteria, all the other criteria... It's that... It's a lesson, not a drawing... do not draw a voluntar with a flomester on the Latvian map, but simply remove the criteria as such so that its drawing... Well, so that we can't legally be accused that we don't comply with the law. I don't know if it's the lesson we've learned from the salaries of medical staff that it's better not to pass laws that we won't follow... Something like that. I think now it's just... Well, we better throw everything out so we can freely, as we say, paint the book ourselves. Well, I think we let... that more error than during the Kalvitis government, their reform then it... drawing. The other thing I wanted to say. It is a replica to Mr. Dūrišs that it seems that the cities parasite on the surrounding regions. I don't like the word like that, I don't think anybody's parasite on someone. But if we look at who is using or otherwise... Just a specific question. Ilmar, you think Marupes... As says, rich Marupe... Does its wealth result from Riga parasiteting on her? Or is it the other way around? Maybe Mārupe is rich, because the inhabitants of Mārupe work in Riga, but the taxes are paid in Mārupe? ( Internouncing call.) And if we want to solve these here... Well, disproportion between municipalities... I mean... This is a deformity, then... We are still not even close to the 70th proposal, where still 105, then there would be a question of an administrative territorial division in which... At the second level, these diversity issues will also be addressed... instead of thinking that adding the city to the municipality would now be better for the city or region. This is a very serious view of the problem that we have objectively now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U175	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U176	If we were currently working on a high-quality draft law, then, of course, this proposal would not be a subject for discussion. Let me explain why. This proposal is currently under Article 10 and is entitled ‘Types of settlement’. If we look at the terminology of this law, then we see that an inhabited place - it is an area in which people live, material preconditions have been created for its settlement, and which has been granted the status of an settlement in accordance with the procedure laid down by laws and regulations. Then we are talking about the forms of settlements. However, I will call for the vote on this proposal only because the poor work of the ministry at this point in time does not refer to the term "centre of development" (both at national and regional level) in any law. The only place where it is mentioned is an annotation of this law, where it remained as a support for the fact that VARAM once had the criteria on which they prepared the reform. At the moment, the criteria have been removed from this law, and none of them should be underlined again! - in none of the laws of development centres... No centres defined. This morning an attempt was made to incorporate this provision into the regional... The Law on Territorial Development Planning. The outcome of the vote was very interesting to the Commission because the proposal put forward by the National Union was not supported (with three votes in favour and three abstentions). Nobody was 'no', but the proposal was still not supported. This morning, it became clear that the Regional Development Law had to be opened up as a matter of urgency. And I have a big question for VARAM: why does the Ministry act so politically irresponsiblely and do not itself propose the opening of this law to bring legislation into line with good legislative practice? But in view of the situation that has arisen, I will call on Members to be politically responsible and to vote in favour so that we have a reservation on the development centre in at least one law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U177	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U178	Dear colleagues, I'm here... For those centres of national development, I hear here from Mr Kirštein that it is necessary to develop Riga. Well, sorry, Mr Kirstein, the National Union has been part of the ruling coalition for almost 10 years. How, then, did you go all this time with economic development? What do you think is the development of Riga? What happens to transit? What is happening to industry? What is happening to the financial and services sector? What role has the National Association played in all of this? ( Sub short notice: “Well, I am well aware! ” ; “COMPARISON!” ) Harmony... I'll read it now. You now, the National Association, of course, also claim to be the leader of Riga. You have... How long it is... One... one and a half mayor for those elections? I will read their priorities. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “On the proposal!” ) Einārs Cilinskis, the candidate for the post of Mayor of Riga. So, “We...” bla, bla, bla... "Our main priorities are to provide all Rigans with a childcare and education system for pre-school children. ... For Rigaers there is a dwelling, arranged in an environment around, so that people would like to live in Riga. The implementation of the severe anti-corruption programme.’ And so on. I see nothing here about the need to develop Riga. What will the development of Riga come from? It's all right, of course, but - where is the Riga Development Programme, Mr Kirštein? Your next candidate, Edward Smilten. That's even better. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Ms Kursīte-Pakule: “What is the relationship between Sandten and this proposal?” ) Does the National Association? Well, no time, yeah. That’s why: “We... “ Impositions: On the Proposal! ” ) “We join forces... and experience in common... “
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U179	Talk, Mr Dombrovskis, more precisely about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U180	“We combine the experience of years of work both at national level” and so on. What is your experience with development at national level? Where is that development, National Association? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Iesalnieks: “Look at the municipalities led by the NA!” ) Where is your development experience? Where? What's going on with the country? After 10 years of ruling coalition you've awakened that Riga should be developed... At last! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Colla and D. J. Interdependence of the candidate.) It is the same as this bill states that Riga's capital Riga. As if we had not known that the capital of Latvia (the head of the sitting knocked with a hammer.) and Riga, colleagues. Something new and unknown.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U181	Colleagues, I will remind you - please speak on the proposals. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U182	Dear colleagues, National centres for development and regional centres for development. It is, of course, an important part of the development of our country, also in the context of the reform, but it was an important issue so far: whether we will stop and stay only with these centres. However, if, let us say, we really think about levelling the gap between regions, then there is still this third region that is necessary - the administrative region. You know, when you think about these... this speech, there's a certain conclusion. There is, in fact, a two-way approach: either we are moving the country so much more... greater centralisation, or yet we maintain the decentralisation underlying democracy... Basically in the Member States of the European Union. This, in my opinion, is also an important indicator if we compare the composition of Members. Then, in fact, all the time, there's a fight between officials and municipalities... which has been going on for years. By the way, it can also be felt in the Saeima. Members elected from local governments speak one thing, there is one position, and those who have been officials in the past still have another position. That, I think, should be taken into account. So I have the kind of anecdotes that usually come to my mind. Maybe you've heard about that oncule who's got a badger in his beard. Utis thinks that beard belongs to them, but the beard thinks it belongs to him. I'd like to be onkull's person, then. We, a delegation from the Commission for Sustainable Development, were pleased to hear the conclusions that the Polish colleagues highly appreciated those MEPs in Poland who had been Heads of Local Government or who worked in the municipality. This is exactly the case. And they're the keys to posts exactly about reforms, about development, about regional development. We do not appreciate this. However, I would ask more experts to listen. I'm not an expert lawyer, I'm not an expert doctor or a vestist, I'm not going to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U183	Mr Kazinovsky, your debate is over. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U184	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to point out that - yes, we had a discussion in several meetings of the Commission on both regional, national and international centres of importance and their identification, and it is clear: what the representatives of the responsible VARAM pointed out would be regulation in the Regional Development Law, not as it is, let us say, put forward here in the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Farms Union. This should go hand in hand with an annex where territories are already defined. This proposal - 54 - was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U185	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 54. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U186	55. - The proposal of the National Alliance. 61 were partially supported and included in the Commission. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U187	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U188	I may have listened, but I think it is included in proposal 61 and not in proposal 65. But on this proposal. That is understandable. If you correctly understand the logic of the National Alliance for this proposal, then it would solve, I understand Ķekava... Ķekava would automatically obtain the status of the city... and many other areas. The proposal is logical, it should be supported, but if we look at the 61st proposal, it breaks down this idea in principle and returns the current order. The municipality must also go to the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Cabinet will also determine. In my opinion, its logic is much clearer in this particular proposal than in the 61st proposal. Because the meaning of the 61st proposal is still - it is still a necessary proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. I join in saying to Mr Dombrava in the Commission that this could be automatically decided by the law responsible so that this status would be granted automatically, because it could also in some way provide for a clear treatment of these cities now... Well, fix it, colleagues, if I'm wrong, but I think Durban has city status, but Ķekava has no city status. Well, there's a certain abnormality. I would also like to say to this proposal that it will be later, but by analysing the experience of other countries in municipal reforms and then also in monitoring, what Latvia lacks is monitoring. At present, the draft law on transitional provisions also provides for some monitoring only for large cities, but monitoring should be carried out in all areas, as is the case in other countries. It's even once a year... carry out such monitoring, whether or not they fulfil the criteria. Unfortunately, these criteria have disappeared in this draft law; there are not really any criteria for monitoring them. This is one concrete proposal. In my opinion, this would be more acceptable than the wording proposed by the Commission, as the wording proposed by the Commission provides in principle for a return to the existing arrangements. Nothing will change in life. This is the order in force. In principle, colleagues are somewhat deceived by this approach of the VARAM.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U189	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U190	Colleagues! I would also like to welcome the proposal of the National Alliance, as it is better than the proposal 61 supported by the Commission. Why? Because there are clear criteria here for granting the status of municipality - if there is an appropriate cultural infrastructure, another type of infrastructure and if there are at least 5000 inhabitants. The Commission envisages that a decision must be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers independently of the fulfilment of the criteria. This means that once again there is one great risk of getting to the “Summer Time” situation, when Kencis went to the respected mayor's father and tried to honor his gifts - one sow and cougar butter - in prayer. Well, that is, once again, someone will have to leave and convince the existing coalition, the current coalition, so that the government can decide on the city's status. One thing. The other thing. If we have clear criteria for granting this status, then of course there must be a clear mechanism for losing this status in the municipalities. Here, of course, there is also the monitoring process mentioned by Mr Valaiņa. There must be a degree of regularity when it is checked that the county city continues to fulfil these criteria laid down by law. So I am calling for support for the proposal of the National Alliance.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U191	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U192	The proposal is, by its very nature, sensible and acceptable - I also think so. But, with the salt of what Dana said, I think now, the bill says that big villages, if you can say so, will become cities. It must be designed, and no objections to it. But I think, unfortunately, we have to admit that our problems are quite different. There are also cases when villages become cities, true. But I think we have another big problem. We already have towns, if not small villages, not far from single. Therefore, it would indeed be appropriate to rule out the reverse order as well. There are currently 500 inhabitants in Durban (the smaller city of Latvia). By setting 5000 for the purpose of establishing the city, we... It is also necessary not to deceive these small cities, to make it clear that then they are actually losing their status and what the procedure is, how it happens and what it will mean for their citizens. This, in my opinion, unfortunately we have a more fundamental question in Latvia than - how to turn villages into cities - and this must be answered if we really are to reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U193	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U194	Yes, thank you for the support of the proposal from the National Alliance. The idea is, in my opinion, contained in this Commission proposal. If any further clarification is needed, then we can still do this at third reading. It seems to me that it is quite clear, after the discussions of the Commission, that this separation has been created, so that, from the 2000 population, there will be an opportunity to become a city. If the municipality comes with such a proposal, the Cabinet of Ministers will support. But from 5000 inhabitants, it is already created as an obligation for the municipality to do so in order to make it work. We also discussed the matter mentioned by Mr Schmit in the Commission, and I really think that it is worth the discussion, whether there is, however, some minimum threshold for us to lose town status. Well, there has been no political will to do this so far, but Mr Schmidt has every opportunity at third reading to submit such a proposal that, for example, being 500, 100 or how many citizens, the village becomes a village.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U195	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U196	Any normal proposal must be supported, regardless of who has made it. In this case, the proposal of the National Association is really consistent in the main aspect, because here it is about the characteristics of the city, the town of the county or whatever. This is not only about the population, but also about the other signs - it is a developed infrastructure, it is a residential foundation and so on, and it is still. The contentious question is their population, because it really... That's what I'm talking about. This can cause some problems in the future, as cities, like any locality, may face different situations. It can develop and grow with the population, it can also decrease temporarily or for life, but it does not change the historic status of the city that has been granted. Since we spoke in due time, there was a wide-ranging discussion here in the Saeima about the small villages. That's exactly the same thing. It was, and is, a settlement with a large population or a small population. Therefore, I think that, in this case, the third reading may indeed have to clarify those criteria, particularly in terms of population. But the idea is correct and accurate. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U197	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U198	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add that indeed we had discussions about the threshold of population, how it is granted, and in which case we reverse it if the fixed size falls below this threshold. In the Commission too, when analysing the situation that has existed so far, it has not really been political will to take away the status of cities with city status... In this case, the Commission also decided not to take it away from those cities with city status, but, seeing the situation that there are enough villages with a sufficient number of inhabitants, to set out the arrangements under which these settlements could receive city status. Consequently, this proposal, 55, was partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U199	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 55. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the National Alliance! Please vote mode! ( Milestones.) Please get the result! On - 27, against - 41, refraining from - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U200	Thank you. 56. - the proposal submitted by the national association. Associated with this, and this would imply that the town status of the municipality is granted and repealed by law. Partly supported and included in the next proposal - 57. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “National Association, Oi, Oi, Oi!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U201	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U202	Proposal: ‘The status of the municipality is granted and repealed by law’ and the wording proposed by the Commission is that ‘the municipalities are set out in the Annex to this Law’. In my opinion, the wording of its responsible commission is unnecessary, could remain the 56th, and it would also be much clearer to say that, for each of these areas, the Saeima retains its responsibility and gives some form of change by law, not simply by an annex, because the course of an annex, as we have seen, is not quite such a simple process if something is changed in an annex, and also the criteria itself still need to be understood here. I wanted to turn to Member Dūrišs, who mentioned examples earlier on this paragraph. Mr Dūris, I would like to show you: please, one of the examples you have mentioned - Ireland. There's one, two, three in Ireland... three-level governance. How many levels of management are municipalities in Latvia? Municipalities have the same level of governance, one level divided into two parts - counties and republican cities - but there are no three levels of management. You have just mentioned the silly argument used that these good examples are working in Ireland. Ireland has a three-level governance model, colleagues. And that's absolutely... It cannot be attributed to this. We are still talking about a single-level governance model at the moment. You have voted despite, you have not expressed your views on governance levels before proposal 56, but you will still have the opportunity to do so on the next proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U203	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U204	Colleagues! This is a very good proposal from the National Alliance, which says that it is already necessary to establish in law the status of the municipality, and together with the previous proposal mentions the criteria for this. I am disappointed by the fact that the National Association itself does not support either its previous proposal or this one. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Partly supported!” ; dep. J. Izalnieks: “The Commission has improved!” ) This suggests that political power has become such - the man gave the words, the man took the word back. You should come here on the table and tell me what has changed then, why do you not support your own proposals, which are much better than the Commission's proposals. The Commission's proposals in fact provide that in any case, even if the criteria are set, the Cabinet of Ministers will decide everything and local governments will have to go to the Cabinet to pray.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U205	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U206	I just have a replica of the political will. That seems fantastic to me. Well, say, “We didn’t have the political will... “ So it’s all normal. There's no political... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “The political will was, there was no political power!” ) The political will... Here's the same thing, small, inefficient schools, inefficient hospitals, everything else. There is no political will - let them continue to work, exist! There is no political will to repair the roads, but there is a political will to push them into all the reform municipalities. That will have to be political will and everything else. This actually shows very precisely what we are dealing with on the third day. We have the political will to call a big one, a small one, a big one, no. And that's how we move. You, “Development/About!” , but you always said that you were in the facts and how the underlying policy was there, that you would not be afraid to tell me what things really are. And in fact, the things are that you do not have the political will to say how many schools in Latvia should be there and how many hospitals in Latvia should be there, what road networks should be there and what cities are in fact villages long ago, how many villages in Latvia are there and how recently they have been eliminated. ‘ We had no political will... “ What are you sitting here and carrying us a reform where you have no political will?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U207	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U208	Well, if it's a political will, then you have to keep going. ( Interface: “Better for the proposal! ” ) Proposal 56 can, in principle, be combined with Proposal 55 and Option 57. What the rapporteur for the committee responsible said about what happened in the Commission, as I understood. If we introduce such a criterion, what it would mean in real life. This change of status may also be for cities... Where perhaps there will be no courage to accept this subtraction of status here, which would automatically mean it. Others would come automatically, others would come off. This shows that there are, however, criteria. If you follow other criteria, you do not have to go into adopting a normal proposal that would somehow mark a clear policy based on criteria. You just don't get in to do it yourself, and that will also confirm to Power in the forthcoming proposals regarding the decision on this matter that we will then decide, let's look at each situation separately... Only in general do you not want to look at each situation separately.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U209	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U210	I don't know if it's a legend, but I was told why so many oaks can be seen in the Latvian countryside. In the middle of the field. One version is that after the war, a great many singles were destroyed. And when they cleaned this place from ruins, the local people kept those oaks that denoted the places where they once stood. And so... these oaks in the field, in the middle of the field, could also be one of the Latvian maps - lost Latvia. Here, on the one hand, it looks quite a technical proposal, either a difference - determined by law or an annex to the law. On the other hand, I think this is an issue of attitude: where and how we determine the status of the municipality. For your part... purely politically, I will, of course, call upon you to vote against this proposal, because there will be a norm that says that this status is granted by an annex to the law, which means that every time we change, grant or withdraw this status to a city, this law will be opened up and there will be an opportunity to correct the mistakes that are made now thanks to the poor quality work of the VARE.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U211	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U212	Yeah. Already in the law, if we look at this law and also... the cities in the municipalities of those draft laws and those in force are set out in the Annex to the law. In any case, if we decide on the wording of the commission responsible, it is certain that the status of the municipality will be granted and abolished by law, in any case, that is set out in the annex to this law. This will therefore be established by law, and the Commission also supported this direction. 56. - the proposal of the national association has been partly supported and included in proposal 57. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U213	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 56. - a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 42, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U214	57. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U216	58. - the proposal tabled by Member Viktoras Valaiņa. Provision shall be made for establishing procedures for determining the city. There are two different versions of 58 and 59 submitted by Mr Valaiņš. 58 not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U217	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U218	Yeah, colleagues. With regard to this proposal, I propose a more precise version than the version proposed by the VARAM. With regard to cities, you supported my proposals in the previous draft text, and in the draft text in general, in functional versions, but this proposal goes in context. And I would call for support, however, because here I am calling for a return to the development centres in this law that the cities are... urban areas are relevant development centres of national importance and are automatically defined in development planning documents. This proposal would also help to address in a way that the second section refers to the city of "district", the municipality of Saulkrastu being the municipality, and the municipality of Kandava being the municipality of the municipality, to which we could come in the course of further consideration. If we want to develop these local centres in a targeted way, then it will be the only way to do so if it has the status of the local area. Currently, if there is no status of this municipality, the status of the development centre, then we are based on the status of the development centre, created an annex, and other development planning documents do not have this annex. Mr Dūris, you have also spoken very nicely in the past about the need to develop the whole country smoothly and not only in cities, but also around cities. But you yourself support the government, which has now sent the National Development Plan to the Saeima, which is quite the opposite of you, for targeted investment, concrete, centralised investment, directly in development centres. Unfortunately, if we look at what is there, let us accept a reduction in cohesion policy, maybe I am wrong, but I would say about 40 percent. Cohesion policy is precisely the policy that serves regional development. If there is no such record, in what way will you channel cohesion investments, for example, to the development of the Saulkrasti region? I also think other regions that deserve this status... One good example is Līvānu novads. What's wrong with Livani County? So beautifully developed, because it was through such proposals that it was given the status of a development centre. I, my fellow Members, would ask for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U219	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U220	Dear President, Honourable Members! I could also support Mr Valaiņa and point 2 for this centre of national importance. Well, there are no centres of national importance, because we don't have counties. If we have this second level when we speak, then we can also identify these... precisely these counties and development centres. I will just give you one example of Northern Vidzeme. We're going back to thinking illusions. If you had Valmiera County, which would include Valmiera novads, Cēsu novads, Limbažu novads, Smiltenes novads, Valkas novads, Salacgrīvas novads, Rūjienas novads, then a single development centre would meet with 139 thousand. Such a development centre could then compete, say, in Denmark with the Municipality of Aarhus, which is exactly 130 thousand. If we say again that every region is there for a political... In one small area or the second salt centre of development. Well, pag, when there are counties, then we'll talk about these issues. Second. There could be only two such centres in Vidzeme at all. If, for example, there is Ogre, where there is industry, Ogre County, Salaspils District, Lielvārde District, Ikšķile District, Baldone District, Madliena District should also be located in such Ogre County. Then the beak would meet half of the development center with some 80-90 thousand. There's no development center! I can't support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U221	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U222	Well, as if there are no centres for development, but at the same time, the entire annex to this draft law is based on the centres for development... 39. and 40, where 40 does not really happen, and 3 of the included are also without development centres, stating that another administrative territory will be the center of development of a particular administrative territory. It's not logical, so you have to find a way, a way to let it go. I agree: if there was no definition of development centres in the LIAA strategy... It also makes up all the far-reaching investment policy of public administration, the most important chapter of the policy. These are European investment funds that will be directly concentrated, no matter what you say about not concentrating. The amount of funding already says that it will be forced to concentrate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U223	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U224	58. proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U225	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 58. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -11, for -51, for -1st, for -1st. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U226	59. - the proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņa. This is essentially similar to what the 58th proposal says. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U227	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U228	Yes, there is too much in this proposal... An alternative version of how to determine the status of a city is proposed, and this version is slightly more detailed than the previous proposal. The details go, but the essence of development centres remains. I would urge you to support the fact that someplace in the law, however, this record appears somewhere. That's... Yeah, it's all about this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U229	I closed the debate. Is there any explanation in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U230	Proposal 59 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U231	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 59. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U232	60. - the proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņa. This is about granting and determining the status of a village. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U233	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U234	Colleagues! This proposal by Mr Valaiņa is very close to the current version of the law, but the substantial difference that the word "local" has disappeared in the draft law text, namely that the interests of the local government are taken into account when determining the status and boundaries of villages. This is one important nuance, and I am referring in particular to this nuance at the National Union, because the National Union was the one who, in the course of the discussion of this draft law, proposed the idea of the zero-level municipalities, or lower-level municipalities, which would have been elected by the institutions, representing the views and needs of the local people. This word 'local' is essential, in my view, so as not to lose its idea of establishing and implementing local administrations.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U235	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U236	Yes, as if a small detail: one word changes in this proposal, but the substance is quite large. Strengthening the role of the local representative, strengthening the role of the local authority. This is actually conceptual... a conceptual proposal that shows whether there is really a desire to shape the administration from below, or whether the administration is from above. I have stressed several times, including today, that we do not need to transform municipalities into executive committees. It would be very, very bad if we did. But this proposal for villages that this local government... It's just the local... The emphasis on this role of local planning is being removed. It already shows that, however, it goes to such a greater degree of centralisation, but without saying these benefits from centralisation to those local people. If this zero level, which is so much talked about... This proposal also called for a return, however, to the zero level in nature and for maintaining the importance of village roles. So far it just illustrates that villages can be, but what happens in those villages, well, because it doesn't apply to their administration... Well, on that big government... the powerful administration that will be its great municipality. I think this is already a challenge for this draft law on voters, on the proportion of what will be between the city and the municipality... the enormous disproportion that arises. There's also a question about another... in general representation in the administrative territory. Voters' associations are excluded. All these issues are already drawn to such a level of centralised public administration, but at the same time they can also reach the central level of public administration without harming the smallest, most vulnerable sections. I don't know what you'll get from all this by doing all these... supercentralized administration... In my opinion, you will end up losing, because citizens' confidence in public administration as such will be lost at all. This proposal, which has been supported, calls for a return to the fact that the villages still have some self-determination that they will listen to. The proposed option clearly shows the MoEPRD's desire to simply centralise public administration. Then why not make one large local government in Latvia, and peace, well?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U237	I closed the debate. For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U238	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to point out that it really goes... This is about granting the status of the village and about the zero level of governance that we have discussed and decided conceptually in the Commission. Clearly, we will continue to discuss our functions, but this does not directly affect this proposal by Mr Valaiņa. Proposal 60 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U239	Please call me! We will vote for 60. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U240	61. is a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. This was supported by the Commission and is linked to the proposals submitted by the National Alliance.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U241	Let us begin the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U242	This is, let us say, a demonstration of mastery. In fact, what is proposed by this proposal is a return to the current order and, in principle, excludes the two National Alliances that have been tabled before, which you have, of course, unanimously not supported... proposals made previously. Because this wording is little different from the current arrangements. Not from the current version, but from the current arrangements. If the aim of the National Union was to say that, for example, Iecava does not now go to the government and demands that the city status be obtained, but at once they are simply granted their status... they meet the relevant criteria. Of course, it would be good if someone monitored it, and also on the Ķekava present-day village... then this proposal provides for a simple return to the old order, because now Iecava Municipality is before... in the course of the reform or some time before they had gone and offered their vision or request to be granted this status. Nothing changes in substance. It only shows how we can, in principle, if you can say so, deflat any proposal, including that of the coalition, especially taking into account... I would like to ask Mr Kazinovsky to think and read about these proposals. They are simply getting out of the way, and in essence the same wording as the government has tabled has remained. Nothing has, in substance, changed to the 61st proposal, except that the cities of the republics are known as the major cities. And it does not change anything in substance. There will be some administrative burden, but nothing else will change. That is why this proposal illustrates the road map that can be proposed to us, in which way they simply decipher any of the proposals presented, while maintaining their progress, without listening to what the Saeima wants. And this, in my opinion, is the worst in this approach, so also the displeasure with this draft law is growing. Why could it not be done automatically? may be the parliamentary secretary by chance, but the answer is that you simply do not have to go on the criteria. You want to keep the political decision, because if you had to have the criteria, you should now talk to certain territories, if you had the criteria, you would have to justify in some way what is happening to Jelgava, why Rezekne, Daugavpils are separate stories. You simply lack arguments at the moment and you do not want to accept in any way that this reform is, however, political, because there are no criteria in it. One of the criteria was proposed, and you were reincarnated back to the government's decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U243	Colleagues, we will continue the debate after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for reading the results of the registration to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as the results of the registration have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U244	Not registered: Members Aldis Adamovičs, Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Inese Ikstena, Juris Jušas, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Janīna Kursīte, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petravičs, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Juta Strike, Jānis Tutins (intermediate call: “ Tutin is!” ), Ivars Zarins. Thank you. Tutin's there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U245	Thank you. Interruption until 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U246	Dear colleagues, let's keep sitting. Debate on proposal 61 The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U247	I would like to share Dana Reizniece-Ozola's view that the order in which the city status is granted... village with 5000 inhabitants, must be automatic. In this case, we would really rule out decisions which, due to unknown circumstances, are delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers. What concerns the granting of the status of municipalities is, of course, clearly the responsibility of the Saeima. But in this case, the idea that I understood from the representatives of the National Union was that it was not simply to grant the status because of the status, but precisely so that citizens, Mr. Plies, could live better. What does that mean? That not to develop some kind of village area only on a standalone... to travel home, new projects, not to think at all about providing these citizens with the infrastructure they need: kindergartens, libraries, cultural houses, and so on. But in order for this status to be granted automatically, the municipality would ensure that it would take care of the creation of a specific settlement area directly in urban areas. Therefore, it is very important that this really happens automatically, not with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. This will also prevent another important moment, which would certainly be important, for example, for the New Conservative Party. Any administrative decision also hides a possible corrupt moment, trade with political influence, and so on. Therefore, to exclude both political influence and (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) I call for this proposal not to be supported by the possibility of corruption from an act as obvious as granting the status of a city to an settlement of 5000 people. And at the moment when the Saeima at third reading will return to the improvement of the law, correct this version, making this process automatic.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U248	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U249	Colleagues, this proposal essentially shows how dual nature is in the hands of the commission and coalition in general, moving this draft law. Let me explain in more detail. If we want to move towards some criteria for determining the administrative areas, then in this case, the criteria for obtaining the status of a city were set. The problem is that, while maintaining such an approach, the Ministry actually even admits that there are unique territories in Latvia, and each territory needs its own approach, but is not ready to determine it automatically. In the annex to the draft law for all the rest of Latvia you have forgotten this approach and simply offer to create an automatic development centre... old district councils.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U250	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U251	61. - the proposal drawn up by the committee responsible was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U252	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 61. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 52, it's against and abstains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U253	Proposal No 62, tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, provides for the establishment of the names of the territorial breakdown units of the administrative territories and the municipality. This proposal was not supported by the Commission, as it relates in some ways to other previously examined proposals, which also provide for designation procedures for counties.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U254	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U255	The substantial difference in the wording I proposed in Article 14 is that a further division, i.e. counties, is proposed for these types of names. What is interesting is that this proposal, in substance, comes into force in the current version. And if so far it has been argued that it is in force... that this regulation should be laid down in other laws, the law currently in force already says that the counties can be defined in this law. It is evidence that the Saeima can make its own choices in this law as to what and what type of governance models will in future be created in the administrative territorial breakdown. At present, this proposal concerns the so-called ‘second-level management breakdown’. I believe that this can already be defined by law. And this choice must be made in some way. This proposal also makes progress towards the establishment by the Cabinet of Ministers of its own opinion, where these centres could and would be development centres for counties, assessing decisions by local authorities concerned, but clearly outlines the way forward for the Commission at third reading. If we support this proposal, it will not in principle affect the Annex to the proposals, but it will affect the direction in which we will move forward with the Commission at third reading. Once again and again, I can only repeat the fact that these divisions - the zero-level municipalities and the management of the second, regional, level - will not be able to work side by side. Latvia is not such a large country that we would need three-level governance models on local governments. We have enough of two, but these two are definitely needed. And the question is, at what point we will make these choices. In my opinion, these choices should not be postponed to the third reading or any other law sometime later. The choices now need to be made, as these choices require further assessment of the annex. These choices had to be made from the beginning when we began to look at the law. In the Commission, choices were made: conceptual support is for both directions - zero level municipalities and second level municipalities - and this will be seen after the creation of... will support in principle, will consider this law already, but when this law is examined, all this will be too late. This version has been taken from the law in force, colleagues, and the previous Saeima's ability to decide it at once. It was a question of performance. And here, conceptually, I would still call... so many have talked about second-level governance, even decided by the Commission. Well, we're voting here.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U256	Mr. Valains, the speaking time is over. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U257	Colleagues! This proposal also concerns counties, i.e. at regional level, whether or not to be. I will name the number of regions in the Member States of the European Union. NUTS level 2 is 278, NUTS level 3 is 1994 regions. Our country's top officials publicly declared, declared loudly - we have to go in the direction towards the Nordic model and level of development. But Sweden has eight NUTS 2 regions and 21 NUTS 3 region. Finland has five NUTS 2 regions and 20 NUTS 3 regions. There is one in Latvia as the whole country. What comparison are we talking about? Regions - they level up development throughout the territory. Now, in the compromise, I have already said, the status of planning regions remains, there is a change in the title of Article 70 - administrative regions. The facade changes color, and the essence does not change. If we want development, then there must be investment. State resources cannot be decentralised without administrative regions. If, let us say, we remain with the planning regions, I think it is clear that after about nine decades, the regions will be even less developed, the Swedes, the Norwegians, the Finns will have bought even more of our land, especially in the eastern border, people will be more concentrated on the capital or on the capital itself, but perhaps most will have gone further. This is a total mistake that, once again, we want to allow the reform once again, like the goats. Do we need that? I represent a rural area, a rural population with some experience, and I know what is needed. If any Rigaist thinks otherwise, he can already vote, but as a result, our country will suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U258	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U259	Dear colleagues, Indeed, if we are serious about the second level municipalities, then we should also outline this case in the law itself and not in the tasks of the Ministry as separate annexes to the law or separate proposals... but right here. Another thing is that although such a norm exists in the existing law, there is no clarity about how it will look. Will it be an elected municipality? Is it a municipal level or a planning region? What's different? But in any case, outline it, I think the ruling coalition would be a thing of honor... to support also the idea that Mr Kazinovsky has just spoken about. Naturally, by specifying to the third reading what we mean by adding a term of this kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U260	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U261	To better understand what we're talking about, my colleagues, I think... many of you have seen this kind of infographic... Latvia's territorial map is also shown, Estonia and Lithuania. ( Internouncing call.) And the impression is that Estonia has much fewer municipalities than Latvia and Lithuania has much less municipalities than Latvia. Only what is not said in this infographics to the end is that second level municipalities are shown in Estonia and Lithuania, and first level municipalities are shown in Latvia. Therefore, that comparison is not objective. And that is why I would also call for a second-level governance model to be considered at this point, because the experiments that everyone expects from the new territories... Unfortunately, there will be great disappointment, because the new areas will also not be able to solve the challenges that are already being imposed on them by other laws, such as the local government law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U262	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U263	Hello, dear colleagues! I want to join today in the very many words of Andra Kazinovsky. And here's about the counties, too... out of the scope of this proposal. Yes, we can talk about three levels. So what three levels in Latvia? There must, of course, be two levels. The fact that we will have big districts, it's one. But the fact that these administrative regions must be... they must be. I am part of a sub-committee on the development of the local government system, and in fact... I concluded that ministries are not prepared to give up some functions today. Come to the sub-commission, tell a couple of words if, even don't know how much they hold their function if. And we can see how we are going with these administrative regions. But, believe me, when I work in the municipality, there are functions that the big municipality alone will not be able to perform... that this should be done in the region. And a great many functions today must be handed over to these regions. As they are today... planning regions, they sit on hunger bread, they are hungry and they sit on hunger bread, and we cannot expect anything from them either. Administrative regions must be financial and administrative regions must have functions that they can also fulfil. And municipalities will be able to carry out their functions, and regions must fulfil their regional functions covering the whole of the region. So that I call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U264	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U265	In the Commission, this proposal on the names of territorial units was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U266	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 62. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U267	63 The proposal submitted by the Legal Office provides for the exclusion of the word ‘competent’ in the second paragraph of Article 15. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U268	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U269	The proposal by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima to exclude the word "competent" is, in a sense, a logical proposal. And you should... its general understanding is already that the function of the municipality... I mean, you can't pass it on to someone... road planning shall not be handed over to the education administration. But when you see what it's like to understand, when you start the elections, some people about the activities of municipalities... And what is reflected here in the Saeima... I would urge, however, not to support this proposal by the Legal Bureau and maintain its emphasis, which seems to be insanity, but at the same time makes people think about the function of, for example, changing names... so you don't have to... there is no situation where the decision to change names is transferred to the streets, for example to the same educational authority. Well, who knows, maybe people come to power in the municipality, who maybe don't understand the work of their municipalities and think that it needs to be looked at from an educational point of view. That is why this proposal by the Legal Bureau, which seems to be an attempt to rule out hypocrisy... However, leave it to any council employee to be clearly included in the law: if street names are changed, the competent authorities should nevertheless consider what this new name will be, because it may happen... I do not rule out cases when someone starts talking about matters that are not within his competence. And has such a situation ever occurred? For example, here in the Saeima, there are other levels of questions. But, for example, in the Saeima and government... in a coalition, the Minister of Justice decides to release the Prosecutor General. Well, it's not his question of competence. But he goes with such a proposal and then only realizes that it is not really a matter of his competence. However, this emphasis on competence must be left in law so that everyone is clear and understandable... draws attention to it, however, before delegating a function to which it is actually delegated in substance... Yes. Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U270	This will be the time when I do not agree with Viktor Valainius and I will agree with the Legal Bureau, because from the point of view of legal technique, the rule of law is not permissible. In the present case, it would be a comparative example that the law would contain an explanation such as "immediately do something" and so on. Each term must be specific in the law. Moreover, the word ‘dependence’ in the present case is, from the point of view of the legal technique, a legal inconsistency, since it cannot objectively be the case that the local authorities are not competent in the matters which concern them. It's... This is a question of indignity from the legal technique. Correct action and the Legal Office can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U271	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U272	To be honest, there is no one to discuss (Inter-Characters.) Because we can call... but we may be called competent, incompetent, in any case by the writing of their words or by the removal of their words from the law nothing changes. If Minister Bordan proposes to leave and dismiss Minister Nemiro, this does not mean that he is competent... and if we enter in the law, something will change. I call for support to be given to the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U273	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U274	I will not agree with my opposition colleagues because, however, with regard to the question of competences, the Saeima has also shown an example of what competence has been recorded, and there are even healthy scientific articles that have now been created as to how the parliamentary commissions are working. And, for example, the law of dismissal of Riga City Council, how... To the surprise of everyone, however, came to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... However, it is worth emphasising the need to be given to the competent authority, the competent commission, because without such an entry, you will simply be lost in all of this. ( Interface: “There is no doubt about it! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U275	I closed the debate. For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U276	In the Commission, this 63th proposal, tabled by the Legal Office, was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U277	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 63. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U278	Proposal 64 tabled by the Legal Bureau addresses a similar case as proposal 63. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U279	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U280	Well, here is a significant difference between the previous and this proposal. Therefore, with regard to this proposal from the Legal Bureau, I would call for its support, because it is really... It follows from other regulations that no other action is possible for the municipality at all but to transfer it to the Land Service. That is why this proposal has been supported, but the previous one, in my opinion, was wrongly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U281	I closed the debate. So the speaker in the tribunal is not asking for a vote on this proposal either. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U282	Thank you. 65 The proposal submitted by the Legal Office provides for the exclusion of the fourth paragraph of Article 15. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U283	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U284	Colleagues! I have not been to the ATR Commission, so I would really also be asking, at least on behalf of the Commission, to comment on the meaning of this proposal, because in fact, the proposal states that in one city of the Republics there will be renames of streets, singles, squares. So far, there was no such possibility. So far, the law has said that you can't be the same... more... name streets, this rule currently excludes this restriction, and in fact we will be able to call all streets by the same name. I do not really understand the substance, so before the vote I would really ask for clarification. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman: “All streets in Ventspils with the name of Aivars!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U285	Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U286	Well, colleagues! This proposal shows how, in fact, its reform has come a little bit round, because the areas that are being created are so large that it is already marked by the fact that simply the streets will not be able to figure out names. Can't figure out single names. You can make it, let's take it, in Cesis... Let's assume that in Cesis municipality there's the name of the house "Puces"... Currently, in Cesis district there would be the name of the house "Pūces", then in Rauna district maybe there are also "Pūces". The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: ‘No postcode?’ ) And then, when we live from Ireland, will send Christmas greetings to the “Peace” in Cesis district, who will actually send them greetings? Colleagues, the postcode will match... and often in such a way that the same postal indices are written for the respective municipality without even writing them down the next digits, colleagues, and then we will come to a situation where there will be the same squares in one region, there will be the same streets in one region, and it already shows that these municipalities are, by nature, so large that they will not be able to name... invent names. Maybe you're gonna... Will you ever come up with the Pleasar, for example? Who knows? Perhaps Krišjānis is hoping for a street in his own name to name it. — Dep. Feldman: “In my name - Krišjan - there are many streets!” ), but... in essence read... Read all of this seriously, read what's written here. We are refusing to repeat this. And I don't think it's right... However, this provision was, and let us be honest, in the current regulation, there are already places where these names are repeated. But these are separate exceptions. These are separate exceptions where these squares and streets are repeated. Make it that these... By law, you don't even have to think, that you don't have such a limit. Mr. Plies, if you support it, the Plies Boulevard will probably not be, because it will be possible for all the streets to be called the streets of Freedom, and then you will see where, where... where it ends. That is why I would call for this proposal from the Legal Bureau, it is not a hypocritical one, it really shows how absurd this reform is, and the fact that these local areas could be so large that even names would not be able to figure out... the same in nature for all. So, colleagues, I call not to support this proposal from the Legal Bureau, although it is logical, but actually shows how illogical this reform is, because it will create so large areas that it will not be able to come up with names for all of this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U287	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U288	Administratively, territorial reform would probably have been successful if, after this reform, people wanted to call the streets, squares, boulevards, alleys. Well, for example, Dūrīšs Square or Pūce Boulevard, or Stretch Alley (Interface.) ... and so on. ( Interface: “Dzintara Street is already there! ” ) And given that I understand the desire of the coalition... but these examples show that, in fact, this reform is not being carried out in a way that is logical, but that it is aimed at making people understandable. And so I would like to support Mr Valaiņa's proposal, however, not to allow all the streets to be named 'Puce streets' or all the houses to be called 'Puce houses', or on behalf of another Member. But what I'd like... I would like its reform to be so excellent that... Chairman of the Saeima, your task is to put the Chamber in order. That's what the Members are saying...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U289	You have a duty to debate now. Please, debate from the platform. We listen carefully.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U290	Speaker of the Saeima, but you have a duty to put order in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U291	We listen carefully.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U292	Now this is once again another example of Mrs Mūrniece's incompetentness. She doesn't put order in the hall... that in this corner just speaks loudly. That is obvious. So when the coalition is loud... Mrs. Moorier...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U293	Please debate the proposal. You have come to debate the 65th proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U294	Mrs. Moore!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U295	Please debate the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U296	Mrs. Moore! That noise in the hall is so... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U297	Please debate the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U298	And that's why... So I just wanted to say that I would like the coalition to adopt a reform that people want to name in your words in every region of the streets, the houses. I would like to see people after this reform... people with the greatest joy to raid and name the main street in each of the regions on behalf of Mr. Kariņš or Mr. Pūce. But it's not! So maybe look at it a little bit from another perspective, where there are mistakes, and correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U299	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U300	During the People’s Meeting in Strenčos “Developing/Par!” Member of the Saeima Mārtiņš Bondars expressed this idea by answering the local people present to the question: why is it not taken into account... the opinion of the public? He replied that this reform was not for people. Bondar: “I didn’t say that!” ), the reform is aimed at public administration. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondar: "It's not human reform, it's governance reform. That was my quote!” ) It is about the reform of governance. From this assumption that this reform is a genuine reform of governance, it is absolutely incomprehensible why this rule is removed from this draft law, especially we have to speak of one name. I think that each of us has come across the fact that different variants of different regions are offered in an attempt to find a single in Latvia. And so I would ask you not to support this proposal from the Legal Bureau and not even think about the interests of Latvian citizens, which you do not think about... simply about the quality of governance in our country.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U301	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U302	Dear colleagues, I always listen to the opinion of the Legal Bureau, but this time I do not share this view. Out of what? At a time of land reform, when there was a huge number of names to be given to municipalities - a huge number! - then the same names should not be repeated in the territory of one parish; there could be the same names next to the parish because, let's say, this reach, these postal items of the population, so that there would not be... and again in the address... if there is “Eglytes” in one parish, the other “Eglytes” could not be in this parish, could be next to the parish. Now, if this is going to happen again in one parish or one city, because people also buy, divide property and... in any case, the same names will come, then there will be very great problems. For simply, if the builders of the land always paid very much attention to it, the catalogues were in every parish to understand what names are already... and had to offer other names. However, I ask you to reflect on this proposal and not to vote, because indeed there will be very great problems with these double, triple names.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U303	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U304	As the Pouce Alley remembers, the Pouce is here! So, Minister, with your return to the Sitting Hall! Hopefully you will join... we are here for a debate from the tribunal, because, unfortunately, your opinion (Interface) is so far out of order. Proposals up to proposal No 65 did not exist. In this regard, Mrs Jalinsk has already mentioned. I call on my fellow Members to really think, nothing crazy will happen if this proposal is not supported. It is simply systematic, however, to keep some address system in the area, so that it does not develop in a single area five, six, seven, 10 houses... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “There will be no houses anymore!” ) This allows this to happen in full. If we are in favour, 10 houses can be named in the same names. You know what's the right thing. The streets may not be so crazy, but it will certainly be possible with the fields. So if you allow no one to live in the countryside, yes, but I still hope that there will be development in the countryside.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U305	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I refuse!” ) So Mr Gobzem does not want to speak. I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U306	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers will determine the basic principles of the address system and how the common address system will be organised. And at the same time, if the address is assigned, changed or otherwise, it will do so either by law or by decision of the municipality, as specified below. And this proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U307	Please call me! We will vote for 65. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -2, refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U308	66. Proposal submitted by the Legal Office is editorial and was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U310	Proposals 67, 68 and 69 address one issue and exclude the third paragraph of Article 18 because they are also dealt with in Article 6. In particular, in the 40th proposal, which we have already discussed. Proposal 67 was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U311	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U312	All three - two ministers, Legal Bureau - unanimously decide that a third... regulations of administrative territories, municipalities and municipalities of municipalities... as well as preparation, updating and procedure of descriptions are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. These proposals are included in the 40th proposal, on which I have already called on the Minister, the only representative of the government, who is here, who even has a government mandate, to come to explain how this order will take place... However, come to the tribunal and explain the substance of the 40th proposal and explain how unification, after the entry into force of this law, will take place. (Mr. J. Puce's intersor.) So these are all... a whole series of what 10 proposals have been put forward in proposal 40. 40th Proposal Saeima... give all the power to the Cabinet of Ministers. As regards the previous proposal, there I do not agree with Mr Ples. You are talking about something that the Cabinet of Ministers will determine. Nowhere has it been said that the Cabinet will set something. It was yours... Your assumption, but in the law it is not reflected anywhere. And I would still call on the Minister for this if once such a mandate from the Saeima... The Saeima gives this exclusive competence to the Saeima and... Give it back to the government, then come the Minister... Minister, this is the issue of the 40th proposal, including (Interdependence.) ... and I call on you to explain. In the past, the Saeima did not have such an explanation when voting on proposal 40. You're a representative of the government, you're still a minister! And, Minister, this is your attitude in general in the context of the whole reform... You brought him to the Saeima's brother. And then when you go to a meeting with the residents, tell them that it is the responsibility of the Saeima, as that brother will be implemented further. I call on the Minister to come and explain once. Mr Bondara already fails to explain what I am asking for. Mr Bondara will once again talk about various ideological things that he has or has not said in Strenčos, but these proposals require clarification. There is no explanation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U313	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U314	Mr. Valains! You're looking at the past all the time. We are now looking at Amendment 67, not at Amendment 40. Proposal 67, not Proposal 40! What? And you know, you're talking about Amendment 40 once! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Desmito!” ) Common: Common: I would advise you, Mr Valaiņš, to look forwards and not backs. ( The box “Do not talk to the grass! ”) ; “On the proposal!” ) Because the microphone is in front and not back. I know what you thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U315	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U316	It is or is not logical to go back to the 40th proposal and ask the Minister, however, to show respect for Parliament and the opposition and to explain the meaning of the 40th proposal and the next steps that could take place in life. It's very logical. Because in the Commission, we also jumped from front to back, considered the next proposals, then returned to these proposals, were pulled out of the pages: now where, let's vote this... and at another moment even the Minister with the Bureau of Law, speaking with each other, agreed what the actual version would be, and then Mr. Pleis simply played it... and, commission, vote. This whole bill is driven without an examination of the question in essence, and that is what I am asking for right now... this proposal has its place, as it is in the 40th proposal that these proposals are included. I ask the Minister to come and explain how he plans in the future... If you cannot explain in detail, at least describe how the further border changes in these areas will take place in any direction. Take a little bit of a picture. Nothing's going on, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U317	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U318	But it is understandable, according to the way the draft law is drawn up, that the Saeima is in principle not necessary. Let's go through, then it's only the Cabinet of Ministers that decides... The family is such a formal bureaucratic machine. But I will remind you of the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. Our constitution says that we have three powers: the legislators, the executive and the judiciary. And the legislative power is what is here in Parliament, not what is in the Cabinet. The Cabinet of Ministers shall have only executive powers. And at the moment, this order is completely wrong. In fact, not only this law, but any proposal, any other law, we actually do not have legislative power... What you want - go further and revitalize... that you are actually directing the legislative power to executive power. And this is not right in a democratic country. Legally incorrect design. And maybe that's why we should be conceptual in general, if we come here, I don't know, we get long from time to time, we want to drive it forward and so on... adopt a law, remove the Saeima as such, because no decisions are made here, decisions are made somewhere else, behind some closed or open doors, coalition councils or cooperation councils, or where... There's just a voting machine that basically... do not study by nature, there is no real discussion already, in essence... In a situation in which the public should explain the project, even the Minister does not come to explain it. He says, I don't care! Just talk here, then we'll just accept what we want. As such, Parliament is losing any meaning. The only point we are here is that we pay each one of us here some kind of remuneration at the expense of the taxpayers. And that's it. Real positions - opposition discussions on the substance of why some legislative function should be returned or not returned from Parliament do not exist elsewhere. Why can there be several houses with the same names in one parish? Doesn't exist. Nor does the Minister come to explain how the postman will know which house to approach and in such a spirit. Perhaps, colleagues, we really do approach rationally! According to what is actually the situation. We adopt a new law, remove the Latvian Parliament, give the whole legislative power to the Cabinet of Ministers, and everything, and peace. There will be a large saving that the five million Latvian company will save on this expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U319	I closed the debate. For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U320	67. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bordan. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U321	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 67. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U322	68. - the proposal of the Minister for the Environment and Regional Development, Pūce, talks about the same thing as the previous one. Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U323	The proposal is not put to the vote. The debate can be held. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U324	Mr. Poece! This is your proposal. ( Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J. Pūce: “Accompanied!” ) I call on... I call on you, however, to come and explain, rather than beg you for a parliament. If you're now... Today you have come here, then honor us, come to this platform and explain. This specific proposal is 68. - is, in substance, included in the 40th proposal on which Mr Pouce says that he has supported it. What I ask for and what passes all these proposals is that the Saeima gives this mandate to the government, and I will explain what. Consequently, the boundaries of the administrative territories are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, ensuring the geographical unity of the administrative territory. Clearly, there is no problem with this. Paragraph 3. The Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the procedure for determining and updating the border between the municipality and the municipality. Here in the Saeima, we don't mix this law anymore. Question: "What are the criteria for this? Can the Minister Explain? The Minister probably has no answer himself, so he also sits and does not come to this platform today, and does not try to defend this proposal. ( Internouncing call.) Because he just doesn't have his vision. Let's see any of these chapters. Section 4: By merging or dividing the administrative territory, as well as by amending its boundaries, the interests of the residents of state and local government, the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers and decisions of the councils of interested municipalities shall be assessed. How will this process work? 5, 6, 7. ... That's how I can continue. This proposal and the call on the Minister to come to explain the government's vision of the mandate they receive in their sense... It may already be. You already, if you notice... At the very beginning, the draft law had even the same proposals with another motivation. Perhaps you will change your opinion on this proposal, hearing what further action will be taken by the Cabinet when assessing one or the other models of border changes. So, in my opinion, the minister is... The Minister has a duty to come and explain how this process will take place. To me, honestly, looking at the Minister's attitude... The opposition also has other possibilities to persuade the minister to come and speak, perhaps not in this platform, perhaps in another commission. If this is not explained in the normal way, we will use other parliamentary methods to get this clarification, because there is still no such clarification at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U325	I closed the debate. The proposal is supported in the previous proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U326	Yeah. 69. - The legal bureau's proposal talks about the same thing as the previous one. It has been supported and cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U327	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “Nothing new!” ; dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Said yes!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U328	Well, see! As if two equal proposals, each one has its own motivation. And with regard to this proposal made by the Legal Office, it is correct because there is no room for this Article in this Title. That's absolutely right! But in relation to... what I asked Mr Puce to come and explain what is happening in the 40th proposal, what kind of order they will determine next. And there are two major differences. One is about the fact that there is no room here, the other is about the fact that the minister is simply sitting because he has nothing to say. And I call on you to come, use this opportunity... to the Legal Office, explain what criteria will be involved in the assembly of municipalities. Colleagues, you have given the mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers, you do not understand what you have given. Do you really have the confidence that these processes will take place? The question of reducing the number of schools, however... No, it was kept by the parliament. That's what you got. But the question of changing the boundaries of municipalities, changes you give to the government. You are not even interested in how this will happen. Well, I'm sorry about you! You're going to be those victims!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U329	I closed the debate. So that's 69. - We have supported the proposal by the Legal Bureau in support of proposal 67.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U330	70. is the proposal of the commission responsible and provides for the establishment of administrative regions for the exercise of the common functions of the State and local authorities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U331	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U332	Colleagues! As such, this proposal has two sides: the reverse and the reverse. On the one hand, well, at least somewhere in the law will provide for a second level of governance, on which quite a lot has already been discussed here. In particular, Mr Kazinovsky insisted on this, and I think that is right. But the reverse side is that it is intended that the functions and everything else will be determined by a separate law. You know, the Spanish have the name mañana. Direct translation means “tomorrow”, but it also reflects to a large extent the way of thinking. Every day and often it is said “tomorrow” with the idea that this promise will never come true. Unfortunately, we already have this experience. The 2009 administrative territorial reform already envisaged, and incorporated in law, that the second level would be created without the municipalities that were set up, and never happened. Therefore, the question is: where is the guarantee, and also with this idea, if all functions and all procedures are not set already, or at least conceptually there is no agreement, for example, on what functions to transfer to the second level... that this proposal and this idea will not turn into a mañana proposal, or eternal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U333	Name of Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U334	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly honored Saeima! I'm not going to use the hour time (Dep. R. Kols: “Use! It’s safe!’ ), which the Rule of Conduct is for me... an opportunity to discuss each proposal. Don't worry about this. I will also use this time to remind one Member of the Saeima briefly that the roll of order of the Saeima determines that all participants, including ministers, can debate only the proposal that is being discussed at the moment. And if the 40th proposal has been examined, then it cannot really be debated by the ministers responsible at the 67, 56, 59 and any other number. I understand that one part of the Saeima is doing this and talking about anyone... speak of any proposal at any time, what they are going to talk about, but the executive, as Mr Valaiņa rightly pointed out, must act... and Mr. Gobzem rightly pointed out... be treated with respect by the Saeima as the legislative power. And if the legislator has set a roll of order for himself, it must be fully respected. On the specific proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U335	Mr. Pouce, I'm sorry. I'll stop you for a second. Members may discuss and debate related proposals. ( The box “Yes! ”) Thank you very much. Please continue! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U336	Proposal 70. This is a proposal that establishes a new article in the draft law to address a major, significant problem of the division of public administration. At the moment we are aware that the state and municipality are performing their functions, and this is also stipulated by the Law on State Administration Structure... cooperation. However, in practice, we can see that there is a whole range of functions for which there is actually a division of competences, and that shared competence has historically been rather unclear. There have been a number of attempts, legal and political attempts to regularise this issue, including through the creation of a second level of territorial governance. With the support of this proposal... and this is a proposal from the committee responsible... but this specific version was prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, following the debate in the responsible Saeima... We actually make one thing clear: in Latvia, the second level of territorial governance will be. In addition, we also say that it will deal with the joint realisation of public and municipal functions. In particular, by its very nature, cooperation between the State and local authorities at the same level. This is a proposal that was also worth debating, Mr Schmidt. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (D. Schmit’s intermediate call.) And I call on you also to take part in the debate if you want to, and to emphasise it... on how important this is, because I also believe that it is very important that a mechanism for the realisation of such functions was established. What should be agreed on? There is a need to agree on which function it is for this to be done. What's happened: the Cabinet of Ministers... The Cabinet of Ministers has examined an information report which has commissioned all ministries in the sectors to make proposals by 1 April on the possible functions that could be implemented at this second level of territorial governance. We have already received proposals... MAY be asked to compile these proposals under their responsibility. We plan to gather them in spring, get sufficient information, come with a conceptual report to the government and by the end of this year, as is also foreseen in the text supported by the transitional provisions... in the version supported by the Commission... come with a bill that makes this special law, which is worried about by Member Reizniece-Ozola... come and submit to the Saeima this year to start the new administrative regions as of July 1, next year, with the beginning of the municipal work in the new territories. Such a proposal will be, and Members of the Saeima will have the opportunity to discuss it, to agree on the final functions which... could be implemented in such a form of co-operation, and the power of the administrative regions will be that we will be able to make it through such a special law. The institutions of the second level of territorial governance are already... In Latvia, these are... performing its function, the amount of the function though has significantly decreased... they are called planning regions... has been created by means of special laws. In fact, our proposal is to develop these institutions, to extend their responsibilities, to strengthen administratively and to provide a clear legal framework for the exercise of functions. I very much hope that the Members of the Saeima, like the committee responsible, will support this proposal. This is useful and necessary for Latvia in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U337	Thank the Minister. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U338	Yet, one picture does not make it clear. We are talking about an administrative division in which administrative regions may appear may not appear. If we're talking about a governance model, where at the first level we figured out almost everything... there are districts, there are cities, there are Republican cities, there are former cities, there are large but minor cities and so on, and so on. What will be these administrative regions: these will be municipalities with all the functions that the municipalities have, or is it an administrative formation that really should not be noted in this law? As this will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Any boundaries, they may change, may not change... What functions and so on... Is there any third option? There is much more uncertainty than what the Minister has said. If we are talking about a new draft law and about functions. Thanks to Mr Kazinovsky, we had a very interesting debate in the sub-committee with representatives of the ministries - as they see this case. There is very little time left until 1 April to await the views of the ministries on this matter. To date, almost no ministry has absolutely any clarity as to what function the regions will have. I have great doubts about the two weeks that will be left. Once again, therefore, the complex approach that I have been talking about today. That bill should have been in the package so that Members who support or do not support this idea had an idea that they supported, which they do not support. Today, such perceptions cannot arise because there is nothing to discuss. And what the Minister said, unfortunately, is not very clear. As regards this, it seems that the Minister has come today, not to explain the draft law and its norms, but to follow the way in which the coalition votes correctly or incorrectly. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U339	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U340	Dear colleagues, With the participation of the Minister, I will still have to say a few things again, repeat. Yeah... Okay, let us believe in a strong word that Mr Pouce says about administrative regions. But what I stressed first of all. This law does not identify these administrative regions as administrative areas. So on the map of Latvia, on the map of Europe, there will be no administrative regions if there is no article 3 that I am... I had suggested that these administrative territories should be... regions with all borders, with all names, what regions are there. That's not the case. And if... and, if you want a compromise, it is a compromise. Okay, we can support this Article 70 if the Minister supports that Article 3 contains administrative regions as a territorial unit. Then I have the hope that it will happen. Go on. Now, the next one is the issue of funding. The region will not give anything in itself. The functions, I agree, must be handed over from the ministries. But also funding that is NAP. This policy must go forward: if there are administrative regions, so that the funds reach rural and regional areas, large cities and small towns and villages through the regions. It's not! That's the opposite. Today I read LETA: once again, the Cabinet of Ministers has just adopted... Following the approval of the rules for the Great Guild, the String Square, the National Theatre Scoop from the ERDF amounts to €7,8 million. The ERDF is the European Regional Development Fund, which is intended mainly to level the low level of developed regions. So we... well, I do not object that these sites are necessarily needed, but should it be from European cohesion funds, from the ERDF exactly these funds? Maybe from the country or... or the funds of the municipality of Riga? If we continue in this way... Well, I don't foresee anything good for Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U341	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U342	Dear colleagues, Minister - the Minister who Mr. Puce! Well, I wanted you here... also invite you to come and explain your vision of this reform. Thank you, you did it. Thanks too for the lecture... on what Members... may and may not be said. But I'm inspired... It shocks what you hear. That's what you're offering, it's about what we're going to do, like we're going to make a body X that's going to do something. And with what it's... Is it going to work? Well, we're gonna call the ministries now and what else... submit proposals, and then we will come with the specific proposal that its institution will be dealing with. If you are now working like this in the Cabinet, then I am really afraid of the direction to which our country is going. You offer something... Well, to say that this is an unprepared question, it is to say very, very softly. So if you already offer something, someone... common jobs or how, then, please say exactly what... concretely, how much it will pay what it will require. In other ways, you create a precedent for decision-making... in our country, who is very, very dangerous, Mr. Pouce. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U343	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U344	Mr. Poece! You are actually offering fiction at the moment, you are talking about the fact that some functions will be invented for these regions... I fully share the view that you simply do not have a vision of what its functions might be. If we are looking at the reality, then, for example, the question of public transport... its one major function, and its public and municipal function. Is there a vision of how this function will be further developed? There's no vision. Regarding the possibility of this function... For example, it would be logical to give a second level of planning... This cannot simply be done because, under the direction of another ministry, new calls for tenders are already under way until 2029. Colleagues, so that we can give up this function right away. Does the Ministry of Education and Science have any offer for second level functions that could be transferred? Mr Kazinovsky and I told the Ministry of Education and Science what is in general a second-level governance model. A you tell us something about April 1. On 1 April there will be a big 1 April joke, because the government will simply not be able to figure out any function actually. And if something is invented, if we go out through the big, serious functions that could be transferred, there is no even smaller germ that could happen... for planning funds, for public transport or for education. It will just lead to it being a fiction. The Minister is currently proposing a fiction to simply vote in favour of this reform in the JC. And that's all. Nothing more. There will be no level 2 governance in Latvia. If that were the case, the minister would tell us today at this platform exactly what functions he sees... In the second level, these municipalities will do what this cooperation with public administration will be. It's already... The information report has passed through the government, we in the sub-committee, come to the Saeima... we have to tell the ministers, which is even the second-level governance model. I can only see it (The Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) like the previous Saeima... The Saeima at work, when the same model... only the difference between this offer and the previous offer - the previous offer also included functions - was said specifically who will work, planning regions were established. Now it is said: this issue will be organised by another law. Colleagues! Even the law is not ingenious! In another law, it will be organized and will be done. I do not think this is acceptable. And, Mr. Pouce, next time you climb to this platform, prepare yourself, please, more seriously. You know, we are also preparing and want to debate with respect. In this case, you have simply blocked the mouth of UK politicians by saying that sometime in the transparent future there will be this law, but when this law is passed, no one will be interested in the creation of its second governance model - not interested! And the facts prove that they're already not interested. Everyone drives in his own direction, there is no common vision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U345	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U346	For three days, 69 of the proposals we debated how we will live in the same level of administration... the substance. That's what we were debating while we were waiting for 70s, where the minister would put something on... will come with a bag, pull the cat out and tell you what is planned for the second level after we have passed this law. The Minister had an hour to explain to us what at least his ideas about second level and functions were. Make plans! Clearly, this has not yet been adopted. He had... He used less than six minutes. Six minutes, saying that the second level will be. The second level will be! And it will combine functions... removed from public administration and also from municipal level 1 to 2. That is all the Minister actually said about this proposal. What did we do for these three days, and what are we going to do next? ( Insight, I don’t know what you were doing.) ) It is made clear that what will now be decided in this law will be redrafted sometime in the spring. Sometime in spring there will be another law that will determine the functions of the second administrative territorial division. So the functions that will subtract from what we decided now. It has not yet been said whether the administrative division... or level two... The level 2 administrative breakdown will be elected as to whether it will be a municipality, and this is not even the case today in these six minutes. ( Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J.Puce: “It has been said!” ) Nothing has been said. Here, and just this is a clear demonstration that either the Minister totally totally bluffs at the moment... because it is clear that by adopting this law and then subtracting functions from first level municipalities again, this law will have to be amended. At least to say openly that this law is not the final one at the moment. What we are deciding at the moment is a temporary law that will be changed sometime in spring... parsing... special law on the administrative breakdown of the second level. For what we decide now will not be valid if there is the law which Puce promises. That is absolutely clear! Elementary! ( Subtotal: “Why? ”) ) What do we decide at the moment? People, I'm serious, do we really want to eject the country of Latvia into some apparatus? Imagine the situation. Now it's redealing. Now 40 new units will be collected from 111, redistributed, laid off employees, salaried employees, and then they will come and tell them: know, but the functions will also have to be returned. So let's do it again, huh? Are you serious? Haosa's state to drive away? That's... I'm really shocked. Six minutes... tell others what they don't know instead of an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U347	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U348	I am fascinated by the extent to which the representatives of the FAO are fighting for the creation of a second level of territorial governance. On how important it is to us, how we are now adopting this proposal and others... Everyone's going to be humiliated right away! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valaiņš’ intermediate call.) But wait, Mr. Valaini! If you fight so keenly now at the second level of territorial administration, where you were before all these 10 years, if you yourself said that the counties are under the current law. They don't work. What made it difficult for you to put them into practice? What prevented you from introducing the second level of territorial administration? ( Interface: “What is the problem now? ” ) And what is proposed in this proposal is the introduction of a second level of territorial governance, administrative regions. I would like to thank Mr Kazinovsky, who is also for the Commission's decision... we entrusted the sub-committee to collect functions from the ministries. And what I've talked about with Mr. Kazinovsky... they have, however, marked the separate functions of the ministries which they would be willing to hand over. Until 1 April, we will see what the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development will have presented in the scoreboard so that we can proceed successively towards the creation of administrative regions. Because one thing is that when it comes to such an approach... We also do not fully know how many administrative territorial units will be at the first level. Even at a time when we will understand the overall scope of functions that could be transferred to administrative regions in cooperation between the state and local authorities... It is clear that the municipalities themselves will become stronger in this model. They will have a larger budget, a larger population. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “What municipality will have a bigger budget? Name!’ ; Subscription: “Adajo!” ) So once again, colleagues, before you start talking about something that has not been done, look at yourself, what you have not done for 10 years!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U349	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U350	Colleagues, maybe... Colleagues, this day started and continued... was a very pleasant atmosphere today, shouldn't be spoiled and come back on Friday, because the whole month was over, as if yesterday was a climax. I thought so. I will surprise you, but I am absolutely sure that some regional level does not really need to be achieved by 40 municipalities, looking at the digital age and how all services will develop further. The question is, of course, how public administration can function in the regions, and we need to talk about such a proposal. Only if it had been at the outset - before all the discussions started, perhaps we would have spared about five hours when the proposals of Mr Kazinovsky and others were discussed - about the need for a region to resolve everything. I'll wake up now. This is not the first attempt. I'll tell you what... the time previously spent. The same people have been there everywhere that wants to do something, it is not unique for this Saeima. It's your... most likely what you asked the ministries... You're gonna end up getting that... ministries don't want these... usually there were nurses, social houses... which are functions that the ministries did not really like. Then there were some minor functions... And the story is that you don't want to give away anything. After that... What is it that is being wasted, and where do municipalities never talk about what is going to be taken from the first level to be worth doing? What can be taken from the first level? Education, but then the question is: why are we making a reform? Education could have been taken out and made beforehand. Health care? Health care has now been optimised enough by the state to make management really different, with which I want to say this... this is really... All due respect to Mr Kazinovsky! This is the betrayal of the one you want. You have never once said to yourself in all the debates what you... That's what's going to be inside that shell that's... Well, we think this is a toll, waiting for what will be, but my recommendation is not to pay too much attention to it, because I will be extremely surprised if something goes there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U351	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U352	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! This government and the Saeima (likely to be repeated) have inherited many reforms that have not been implemented over many years, including administrative territorial reforms, the origins of which are already short after the restoration of independence... and we hadn't been to the end either. Similarly, the issue of governance at different levels, like the level of municipalities, has been fragmented and weak as the first level. It must also be said that the current model of planning regions has been some kind of sub-option, some temporary solution, which has not really demonstrated itself well in practice, and most of all those affected agree. Waiting for such a major, controversial reform, at the same time, to be able to resolve completely all outstanding issues in a mystical way, I think, is a pure fiction, it is simply a pure excuse. I think that if we look at this specific proposal and the words it contains, some things are becoming quite clear. First of all, the fact that discussions, extensive discussions, on what levels of governance are needed in Latvia, have brought us to an understanding, which I hope all those in the Chamber are joined by, that we do not need a second level of elected government. Latvia is too small for countries, including federal states, such as Germany, France and many others, where different levels exist, including several elected ones. There is no need for this in Latvia. Latvian democracy and local democracy can work without it. Secondly, it is clear that it is also for the state and local authorities, in particular, to come out of this fragmented, weakened situation, where the various local authorities have different levels of social support, which the Minister for Welfare could tell us for a long time, how many different local authorities differ in terms of the number of social services, the amount of benefits and so on, that we have to equalise the level of services, we need to ensure that public services operate on a uniform basis at last, and, of course, we also need to ensure that the state and local authorities cooperate more closely with each other in the exercise of the various functions and the provision of services to citizens. I wonder that Mr Šmits and Mr Valaiņš (no one has worked well in executive power, but Mr Valaiņš still has more experience in the legislator) do not understand how the laws function and how they interact. We often adopt laws that refer to each other, disprove principles and a conceptual framework for what will be developed in more detail in another law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmidt: ‘Where is it?’ ) So please put sticking on the edge and move forward. I am counting on a workable solution to be agreed upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U353	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U354	Thank you Minister, thank you to Mr Pavļuta, because at last we have reached the conceptual culmination of this law. Because criticism is very good, but it is always very constructive to offer a solution. I could say what was necessary at the very beginning and what was pointed out absolutely by all the local government leaders who opposed this reform. We needed this administrative territorial reform design on a single slide, a model with a new governance system, with all three levels. Because in this law we are currently talking about the second level, there will be another zero level offered by the National Association. And as far as I understand from Mr Pavluta, it is thought that neither the second level will be elected nor the zero level will be elected. So what is it about a model and who will actually manage Latvia? We do not have a reform design, but it is already clear that amendments to laws will be necessary: Regional Development Law, Territorial Development Planning Law, Law on Cooperation between... There will be a new law on cooperation between Riga and Pierīga, promised us by Mr. Ples. There will be a new law on cultural and historical regions, driven by the National Association. 20-30 amendments to the strategy will be necessary. And above all, it will be necessary to amend the electoral law, where we will try to put together your thoughts on the zero level, on the second level by Mr Kazinovsky and on how Members will be elected in the combined municipalities, where there is also no clarity where it is possible that healthy present regions will remain without the possibility of representing their territory in the newly created municipality. In the absence of such a design, we see only one thing: that the current draft law is a piece of legislation. And the best decision was to postpone this bill, start all from scratch and offer the Saeima to vote for a normal, high-quality bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U355	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U356	Dear colleagues, For the sake of clarity, I will read out the definition of an administrative region given by the Assembly of the European Regions: "The name of a region should be applied to the level of governance which lies directly below the central government, which has a political representation guaranteed by the elected regional council, or, failing this, has an association or a board set up at regional level by local authorities, which are at one step below." This option is also acceptable when it comes to delegation from both national and local authorities. But I was surprised by what Mr. Kučinski said. You yourself, for about two thousand years, were a very zealous defender of five regions, an administrative region. I don't know what happened. Something... some corona... Amnesia virus, when you get to the government. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U357	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U358	I would partly like to agree with Mr Pavlut, but only partially. I also personally believe that two elected levels of municipalities are not necessary in Latvia. And with this, I went to the elections from one particular party, where we said it. So far I agree. But what I do not agree with and that is an absolute legal absurd and absolute legal brother - that people, when they adopt laws, that is, we Members... It seems that by adopting these laws and being... accompanying laws... it is true, only the problem: on two or one or three levels, or how many levels local authorities have a fundamental and conceptual issue that needs to be clear today, moving reform forward. It is a question of starting the reform. Because usually (and the legal technique also says, logic says, common sense says), in order to do something, there is first a consensus in society about the basic principles. The basic principles are the basis on which the technical components are built. It's the other way around now. The technical details are being created and it is being said that we will decide on the basic principles afterwards. We will then decide whether we will have two or one levels, whether we will have two and both elected levels, or whether we will have two, one of which will be elected, the other will simply be appointed. That is the debate, it is the issue of the dispute. I have said my point of view, it may not be acceptable, but it is a matter of principle. And Daniel Pavilut, as a former minister in this context, should not show his colleagues Valainius or Schmidt, who were not in public administration. Then I have to say, Daniel Pavļut, if you, as an economic minister, pushed forward some legislative proposals, without thinking at first about matters of principle... then maybe the question arises: have you been a competent minister or a competent state secretary in this capacity? Because the legal technique and legal logic taught, for example, in the 1st year of the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia, with which... Where Juris Pūci and I studied together... that it first takes decisions and establishes a framework. Basic conceptual decisions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U359	The debate is over. Colleagues, we will continue the debate after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U360	Not registered: Members Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Ilmārs Dūritis (Dep. I. Dūrits: ‘Yes!’ ), Inese Iksten... The cake is, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivan Klementjevs, Janīna Kursīte, Atis Lejiņš... ( Interface: “Atis Lejiņš is here! ” ) The doll is, Linda Ozola, Evija Papule... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “I am here!” ) Evija Papule is, Ivan Ribakov, Karina Sprūde, Juta Strīķe, Didzis Šmits, Jānis Tutins... Smith and, Tutin and... Ivan Zarins, I'm sorry, Ivars Zarins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U361	Thank you. Interruption until 16.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U362	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! Let us continue the debate on proposal 70. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U363	Dear colleagues, I cannot agree in any way with those opinions that have been expressed earlier that it is impossible to include everything in this draft law. Since Minister Puce (Thanks, just came) we, the legislators, are proposing to create a new level of governance in the country. And that's it! It's not a word about what it's about to be. It'll be elected or not? Or... What questions will this address? This will be binding to whom? How? Absolutely no information. However, I would remind you that we are a parliamentary republic, where the legislator decides on issues and details of principle left to the Cabinet. Something completely different is happening here. And the government that supports it shows disrespect for the legislator. And the legislator who accepts it, then that's... the legislator accepts exactly that attitude. That's a disrespect. We can create such draft laws - the Minister for Economics will eliminate the OIC. That's it! How's it going to go? Not a word! The Minister will promote a regional association. The Minister will reform the regions. Now where is it going, colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U364	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U365	Colleagues! I have to answer Mr Kazinovsky. With regard to the virus, I even rocked normally rather than doing this... I'm... I think I have nothing. (Laughter) Thank you very much. But for the year 2000, yes, I tried to tell in my first meeting how the times have changed. Historic view - 2000, regions needed and then had to be built. Since then, if someone has not noticed, much has changed, everything has gone ahead, and other functions have been given to municipalities. I am listening all the time and I would also like to hear what will then be inside those regions. The fact that the country will give an enormous amount of money from its sizeless pocket, which will be shared for development, I have heard that. But which functions will return to these 40 municipalities - I have not heard it. I therefore think, Mr Plesh, that in 10 years' time, the next censor behind you will also say that there has been nothing here for 10 years, that the regions have not been built up, and that there will be a new proposal, because, like it stood for 15 years, it will stand for the same length.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U366	Mr Kučinska, the time for the debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U367	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U368	Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U369	Dear colleagues, It was very interesting to listen especially because it has now come to me that I have been creating and for some time also led the form of cooperation that was later referred to as the planning regions. All due respect, of course, for the fact that he is trying to explain and move this issue forward. But I wanted to mention a few things at this point. Well, first of all, I wanted to answer that probably... said today that planning regions are working badly... I don't think it could be real. I guess Mr. Pavilut... I guess there's someone else in contact... in another place... planning regions. I think Latgale planning region has shown itself very well. The legislative framework within which it can now work. But if they really are bad - if they are bad! - then why repeat the same and strengthen the wrong because it has already been... because such attempts have been and have not been carried out over many years. On the transfer of functions. All these many years have been talked about the handing over of functions, there have been attempts to hand over. But nothing is changing until now. All ministries have done their utmost to surrender and then do their best to prevent regions from doing so and have taken it back. This only shows that, in a planned, step by step, we are only going to a more centralised and centralised country. Today, I want to mention the functions and what is happening in the commission... I would like to mention just a few things in the sub-committee led by Mr Kazinovsky. At the first session, with a great deal of optimism and enthusiasm, we also had people present and wanted to start a discussion. All things changed to the next sitting, they did not even consider it necessary to respond to a written request, and all other ministries acted the same way. Well, in the memory of the Ministry of Agriculture comes the proposal to hand over only one function to the municipality - to answer for dog tipping, right? If I'm not wrong. ( The transcripts are: “That’s right! Right!” ) Write the law now, without knowing what the same level of municipality will be, which we are talking about at the moment, because the local government law still does not exist and promises that we will only see it in a moment and reach the Saeima in the best case in the autumn... It is very, very difficult to make any decision and to decide on another level. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U370	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U371	This debate on this proposal, and also on Mr Pavļuta's statement, clearly shows only that there is no common understanding and agreement on what level of governance will be. In my address, too, I mentioned some examples of the main functions that should be transferred to the second level of governance. Otherwise, this form of management will simply become a fiction. If we go through three big functions, then none of them will unfortunately be passed on to this level of governance. This is simply not possible, because the government has already taken irreversible steps in a completely different direction. And, in my view, this proposal will only remain as a proposal and nothing more will happen in life. It's just gonna happen... if anything is going to happen, then it will be fiction and, unfortunately, eclipse of the eyes, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U372	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U373	Dear colleagues, Minister Puce wants to express to herself, with the help of the Saeima, a task that would sound like that - go there, don't know where, bring it, don't know anything! May God help him to do this! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U374	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U375	In the Commission, the 70th proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U376	Please call me! We'll vote for 70. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U377	71. The proposal submitted by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, sets out and specifies how municipalities will operate until 30 June of the following year, when the new administrative territories will enter into force after the elections. This proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U378	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U379	Colleagues! Is there a possibility that, after the adoption of this law, some local authorities could decide on the merger anyway, regardless of the merger being offered? On the contrary, a municipality's territory, for example, which is not affected by this administrative reform, which has not even been assessed in the context of this administrative area's reform, would like to make a proposal, for example, on division. Well, for example, the Gulbene region would now come to the conclusion that this form of administration has not been a good one, that they have not been considered in the reform at all, and that it would have come to split the Gulbene district into two parts, maybe three parts. This proposal, by its very nature, excludes municipalities from this possibility - to come with some initiatives on the possibility of dividing or merging in some form by 2021. Because now, however, the law gives such opportunities to municipalities. That is why, in my opinion, this proposal is redundant in this draft law. ( That is, if we are talking about forbearance.) Even if this proposal is not there - even then, the Cabinet could assess, give its opinion. But now, by supporting such an approach, we are taking away the opportunity for municipalities to turn... in the event of such a situation. No one says that this situation can come, but there is some theory of probability that a region would like to split up or unite. This proposal excludes this possibility. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U380	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what can be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U381	This proposal was supported by the Commission following discussions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U382	Please call me! We will vote for 71. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 53, no, 10, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U383	The proposal put forward by Member Viktors Valainis provides for the deletion of a number of transitional provisions, as well as a number of transitional provisions to be laid down in other laws. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U384	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Internouncing call.) So when we vote...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U385	All right, colleagues! I'll start right away. I call for this proposal to be seen (this is a very complex proposal), and for it to be seen in two parts. First... And to divide exactly point 9... The Territorial Development Planning Law lays down this... Currently proposed version of the transitional provisions... A number of issues that should be delegated, regulated by special laws, with which this particular commission is already working, are combined... Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic, as well as Law on Territorial Development Planning... These proposals should, in my opinion, be dealt with in specific laws, and this is also what this proposal is proposing, so that all issues are focused on their substance. With regard to paragraph 9. There I would like to go a little bit more. Currently, paragraph 9 of the Transitional Regulations provides for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers - to determine the procedure by which, within the framework of the administrative territorial reform of November 1, 2021, the municipality co-finances the development of drafts of mutually integrated territorial development planning documents from the financial resources allocated to the state budget. In my opinion, this proposal is, by its very nature, not feasible in real life. In my opinion, this issue should be excluded from the transitional provisions of this law and dealt with in the Territorial Development Planning Act, which has already been submitted to the Commission. Today we started working on this law in the morning. VARAM stressed the need for these two laws. And if it was conceptually decided that the Territorial Development Planning Law will also be considered, then this issue should also be considered in the Territorial Development Planning Law. This is a rather complicated issue and, in my opinion, this law does not completely allow it. I'd call for this here... directly on paragraph 9, specifically on this section, to vote separately. Other points could be discussed there. Is that right or wrong - to regulate it in special laws? That could also be done; in my view, it would be right if it were to. However, it is paragraph 9 that, in my view, should be excluded from the transitional provisions. We will also talk about this later. But this proposed version, which is a version from the government, shows, in my opinion, how little is the understanding of lawmakers in general about the development of territorial development planning documents.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U386	Mr Valaiņš, once again for your proposal. So your proposal is to divide the 72nd proposal into parts.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U388	Once again, please specify how!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U389	9. ... Section 9...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U390	That's paragraph 9...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U391	Paragraph 9, yes...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U392	It's about the Territorial Development Planning Law... Vote separately, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U393	Separately, yeah. Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U394	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues, therefore, Member Valaini has the proposal to divide the proposal 72 into two parts and to vote separately, in particular by separating paragraph 9 relating to the Territorial Development Planning Act. So we have a proposal. We should vote on this... Are Members opposed to this proposal - to vote on the 72nd part of the proposal? ( Interface: “There are objections! ” ) There are objections. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the 72nd motion being put to the vote! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has therefore been taken to vote on proposal 72 as a whole. The debate has already been closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission to proposal 72?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U395	In the Commission, this proposal... In view of the importance of issues relating to administrative territories and to the administrative territorial reform as a whole, it would be necessary to include them in one place so that they can be seen in a transparent and objective manner here (Dep. V. Valainis: “But about point 9?” ), this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U396	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 72. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U397	73. - a proposal from Member Indicice, which states: "The general meeting of Members shall be proposed by the president of the major municipal council and chaired by the number of members of the general meeting." This proposal was partly supported and included 75. - the Commission's proposal, like the next one.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U398	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U399	Colleagues! To understand the substance of the proposal... It is not just about convocation of the general meeting. The idea is that the general meeting is convened to ensure the 2021 municipal elections. Administratively, territorial reform is being implemented in very difficult times - shortly before the next municipal elections. And the chaos will be quite great when those new municipalities, for example, have to create a common budget within a month; it will not be an easy task. But here's more about technique from my side commentary. The title of this draft law is “Law on Administrative Territories and Populations”. And the Minister, when he was here before (by the way, thank you Minister for debating), said that we are regulating all specific things in the specific laws. So, here, too, in this case. If we are talking about organising elections, then this regulation should be laid down in the law on municipal elections. As a general rule, there is no objection to this particular comment by Mrs Indicice on the existing version. But the whole rule should be moved to another law, moving it into a package with this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U400	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U401	Yes, colleagues! This proposal is actually an illustration of their legislating. One question is that... Mrs Indicice mentions that the general meeting of Members is proposed to be convened and chaired by the president of the largest municipal council. But the second question is, how these new... This term will make decisions? The question is: will it be proportional or by population? Mr Puce's next proposal, 74, is also trying to find clarity in some way. But there may also be a situation here where quite similar figures will come together. And I think this is also a question 75. - in the committee's proposal, there has not been a clear answer. According to the Population Register, there's... may be in a situation of quite great confusion for its newly created municipalities. I would therefore call for support to be given to Mrs Indicice's proposal. And then I'll tell you about the next one.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U402	I closed the debate. For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U403	In any case, it is necessary to determine which is the largest municipality in terms of population. And what the Commission proposes in proposal 75 is to record it according to the actual data of the Population Register. Proposal 73 was partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U404	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 73. - the proposal tabled by the Member, Indricksones! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 9, for - 52, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U405	74. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. This was partly supported and included 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U406	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U407	Colleagues! The positive message about this proposal and the next one is that there is at least an attempt to define the arrangements for holding meetings and making decisions. But in fact, there is one negative aspect in this whole story, because... We estimate that, following next year's municipal elections in the new administrative units, there will be a significant reduction in the possibilities for representativeness of the current smaller local population (now that number... There are about 90 thousand people who are likely to remain without their presence in the new councils), but the situation will be worse until the next municipal elections, because simply putting together several municipalities without the people's desire to express the total number and representation of Members' mandates will agree that the biggest... with bigger muscles perhaps, but not the greatest capacity... Members of the largest municipality will actually set the agenda and take decisions. Half a year is quite a long time when deciding how the next municipal elections will be held. It happens that those little ones will be able to try something out there, but decisions will still be made in the way that the biggest... Currently, the largest municipalities by population according to the Population Register.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U408	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U409	Yeah... Keeping on the practical side of it, one question is: OK, let's get to this... to the manager who will direct the process, that is one thing. The other thing is this general meeting... This is also linked to resource issues. I'll ask you an elementary question. Well, to organise the elections as well, for example, in what major district this question can be entrusted to... impose all these costs on the shoulders of the smaller municipality. Although it will then be a single region, this issue too should be clear - in which treasury these resources... from which the municipal account will then be paid, as these municipalities are still autonomous municipalities for the whole period until the 2021 elections. And there can't be... create a situation where major municipalities plan to charge these expenses on the shoulders of smaller municipalities. It is also about what Mrs Reizniece-Ozola has already said: how this decision will be taken, what the relationship between this right to vote will be. In my opinion, these issues have not been discussed. Proposal 74 and Proposal 75 do not provide clear answers to very practical questions on how these municipalities will prepare for municipal elections, which could cause some difficulties. Mr Plies, I would also call on you to pay attention to this and to follow up on the committee's chair, so that these unanswered questions, which are, of course, questions! , would be answered already before the law came into force. At the moment, there is uncertainty about these issues. Unfortunately, I have not tabled proposals for these chapters either, but the uncertainty is quite high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U410	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U411	Colleagues! Since I have not participated in the meeting of the commission responsible for this type of proposal, when I read out the 74th proposal itself, I understand it because it says that if the district's administrative... the administrative centre is a city of the Republican importance, or the big city, as we have now renamed, that in that case this general meeting is convened by the chairman of the municipality, where the population is the largest. That means... It is probably Rezekne, if I understand correctly, because for Rezekne, if I am not mistaken, the administrative centre will be the city of Rezekne. Hence, this meeting is convened not by the city manager of Rezekne, but by the largest head of the district in Rezekne. If that is the case, then I understand, if not, come in, explain. But I came to talk about one other thing. Both this proposal and the next one deal with up-to-date data. And statistics, including official statistics, do not have the concept of current data. The data must be given to a specific... a specific date, because only then they will be usable. The data that is up to date today will no longer be up to date tomorrow, and so on. However, I call for this term to be clarified from a statistical point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U412	I closed the debate. I have a question: do Members want to vote in favour of 74. - the proposal partially supported? No, no. So, on behalf of the Commission, on proposal 74.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U413	This has been partially supported and included respectively 75. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U414	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U415	Proposal 75 is a proposal from the committee responsible and was supported by the addition of point 4 of the transitional provisions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U417	Proposal 76 is a proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who is essentially dealing with a similar situation that we are discussing: the words "the number of citizens with the right to vote" are supplemented by "according to the actual population register". Thank you to Mr. Wuzan for his instruction; if necessary, let us look... Perhaps we can clarify at third reading that there is no legal conflict. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U418	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U419	Proposal 77 - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U420	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U421	Colleagues! I would urge you to focus a little on this. At the moment, this proposal is... Essentially important. In the Commission, this is not at all debated, but pay attention, please, to the meaning and nature of this proposal. I would, however, call for listening and, as far as possible, support. I propose a different merger mechanism and will explain why. Colleagues, you are now offering to unite local areas. What happens if we unite the municipalities? Let's say, a region in which eight territories are merged. At that point, there are eight executive directors, such as local government staff, eight heads of education boards. On the basis of the Labour Law, the priority that these people have to leave at work... priority will be given to the one who has worked the longest. That is, not the best, but the one who has worked the longest. You are now offering such a procedure in the law. With regard to this proposal, I propose that the centre of the administrative area be added instead of merging its territory, but adding its territory to that centre. For example, adding these... for this center, it would clearly give a signal... That Valmiera... In other words, all the rest of the region will be formed on the basis of Valmiera specialists. These issues of labour relations, which will undoubtedly emerge here, would be resolved by such a proposal. It is not conceptually against the reform, it is simply a proposal to solve in a reasonable way its problems, those challenges that will undoubtedly be. Colleagues, I am absolutely sure you will not support the third reading... you will come to these same arguments, because these will be all the municipalities that will come to you and tell you these same arguments, because this will really happen. In eight municipalities there will be eight managers, eight heads of service and eight heads of service. How to get to the best? There is no answer. There is no answer! To the best to get to... The regulation will now say that the best thing that has worked is who has worked for the longest time. Do you really think that the best thing that worked longer is? This is purely administrative... administrative proposals and changes in nature only that... not combine, but add - add! - for this center and already on the center basis of these... New... the newly created municipality. It will solve precisely these... This work relationship would, to a large extent, help to resolve it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U422	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U423	Colleagues, I will continue, because this is a really serious issue and we should stop here a little, because I would also not want to be the head of the municipality that is being elected... In the next 10 months, instead of running the district, he will do the structure, the layoffs, which will be guarded by the law of the work absolutely and definitely after... with all the resulting consequences. The previous reform incorporated... integrated parish administration, and there was a different situation, the legislator had at the end already said in front of how to do it. This... Well, it's obviously not thought, at that point in time... It can't be called any other way than a brother. But now... It's just shouting! We have to fix it in some way. There are, of course, two options. One thing is that there's this text that... I call on us in politics to separate ourselves from the game of "position - opposition" and simply to vote to reassure all those who have already noticed it... anxious minds that support reform and await results. On the other hand, of course, the same, identical, present, it has already been prepared... I want you to submit your third reading. But there's no talk here even... there's no real talk even about some kind of games, it's a serious precedent that makes life extremely difficult for all those who will lead these big municipalities.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U424	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U425	Yes, honourable colleagues! This is indeed an unusually consistent proposal from the Member Valaiņš. And I would call for that even to be supported. There is only one ‘but’. Mr. Valaiņš is putting forward all the many proposals... a little mistake today. If the proposal also referred to the first sentence of the sixth subparagraph, then it really... I would call on the Saeima to support this. As he did not add it this time, this is unfortunately not acceptable and must be corrected at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U426	The debate is not yet closed. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U427	Thank you, Mr Asheraden. In my opinion, this proposal would solve not only its labour relations but also its assumption... to resolve many issues in some way, so that I would nevertheless call for this to be voted on at the present time. It would be positive if it were to be supported. And about the consistent proposals. The rest were already consistent, not that this is the case. ... But after (Interior call.) ... basically to the third reading... this is simply a point to clarify, because nothing is already... It's not good to figure out.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U428	I closed the debate. For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U429	Thank you to the Commissioner, Mr Asheraden, who pointed out this essential nuance in paragraph 6, which also regulates the way in which the right of the municipal council ends with the... newly elected municipalities. But legally, we can see how to solve the nuances mentioned at third reading. Proposal 77 is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U430	Please call me! We will vote for 77. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 46, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U431	78. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which determines how, within the framework of administrative territorial reform, municipalities are granted a state-targeted grant for the development of a joint project of an administrative structure of the new municipality by June 2021. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U432	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U433	Well, if that previous proposal was not meaningful to you, then why is it meaningful? Then I have that question. Common territory to be created... the development of joint local administration structures... What do you think? Perhaps, Mr Pouce, you can come and explain how this regulatory framework will work in life? I see clearly how this could work in life in areas where there is consensus on the creation of a district. The question is, how could this work? And I will ask you the same question with other proposals - how could it work, how can it work successfully - if these regions are contrary to each other, if these regions do not want to unite, if there are already historical contradictions in these regions, if there is no consensus in these regions as to how they see this further structure, the further management? If such a proposal is supported, the question is whether it is simply wasted. Because we can end up in such a situation... and, most likely, we will, and that will be the case in a number of areas... Well, I think in what kind of one of these 40, in which eleven, it will certainly be that these areas will not be able to agree anything before the elections. They can't even agree to meet together. The question will be how they will make electoral committees. At the moment, creating a new administrative structure, making funding from the budget, I think, is... It's not really real. The Minister could therefore come to explain how this will happen. At the moment, opposition colleagues are ready to ask questions. The question is, is anyone ready to answer? Desire... the idea is already good, only that performance, in my opinion, does not really correspond to the real possibilities, as it... how it could happen in nature. That's why, Minister, please... Your proposal... you were not in the commission when it was to be defended, it was defended by the official. He didn't fully explain. Logical question: what will we do in those situations if they are unable to agree on anything? A very simple, just as simple answer I expect from you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U434	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U435	Dear colleagues, I don't understand something from a practical point of view here. The first meeting of the Council will take place on 1 July next year, and will be elected... first meetings will take place, where at least the leadership will be elected if nothing else... if elected. So what will form the structure of the administrative structure? Who will that be? In 2009, by merging municipalities in either the largest district or smaller... or, by combining, say, five municipalities or 19 municipalities... in any case... After the first meeting, Members decided to set up working groups there and work on the regulations of the municipality. The law of the municipality also provides for the entire administrative structure... how each municipality will operate. As they say, put everything on the shelves. As in every company there is a statute; it has a statute in the municipality, the municipality shows it all in the statute. What are you gonna do in this... Is that so? The project of the administrative structure of the municipality will then be... the design of this project will take place before the statute? This project will be developed, and then the municipality will work on the statute? ( Interface: “There will be no municipalities after 1 June! ” ) That is not clear to me. We would like to have a special explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U436	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U437	Dear colleagues, It is this proposal that should be made before we start looking at administrative territorial reform. Because we are creating a new project in each case. New Municipality... its creation is a separate project. Provision should therefore also be made for the administrative structure, the functions of the administrative administration and the division of the administrative apparatus in order to provide for such merger. This is the way of offering to those municipalities that will unite. This proposal is therefore overdue. Because really... it could be the basis for a project that would have been discussed in the course of a merger with all the municipalities affected by the project, and then some clarifications would also appear, and only then would it be possible to show the statute of the new municipality, where this project becomes the regulatory basis for the work of the municipality. I therefore feel that this proposal is very late and cannot be supported in this way.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U438	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U439	You believe, Minister, that you do not need to answer this question? Then I will tell you that I do not agree with this. In substance, I do not agree with such an approach, because it will be just a waste of state resources. And I think we're making artificial plans here, artificial... spatial development planning, which we will talk about later - that's all... I don't know what tumult it's all made in this... in the law. If you look at it, the 2009 reform has been analysed - nothing like that. No similar innovation was needed, that now there is a need to make plans, something else. It just didn't happen. Now we force the law to build, make purchases, maybe like those purchases, but now... This is not where it should have been. You're only, forgive me for a lexic, chatting a normal management model.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U440	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U441	I would like to reassure Mr Valaiņa that the means of implementing such a project will be wasted anyway. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U442	The name of Member Janina Yalinska for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U443	In the context of this proposal. On municipalities, on the statute of municipalities. As a general rule, local authorities draw up model regulations (Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Malace, Janina!” ) and work on these model regulations, take them as the basis for these model regulations. Where we still have to work here and what projects... and so on... And the municipalities will find an opportunity to take a possible option from these model regulations, which satisfies them or does not satisfy them. Not all the one hundred percent of the elected municipal members take away from these model regulations... all one hundred percent... but take the core that's usually local governments... In particular, the reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U444	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U445	Dear colleagues, In principle, however, targeted grants are necessary. Clearly, these conditions are not yet clear, but... Well, as last time... of course there was a certain amount - 200 thousand lats. The county had a very strong incentive. These buses for the carriage of schoolchildren... But in any case, it should be borne in mind that many municipalities also have debts. Let's say, when the administrations... Even if you have to redeploy the severance pay... all these are also big extra costs... and a targeted grant, namely... I support it in this case. And I can say positive too... one condition: if there are administrative regions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U446	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U447	Yes, my fellow Members, I think it will really work, because it can be seen from the experience of the government that, as soon as a new government comes, the first work it does is to keep the old one out, even if those decisions have been good in the past, and then start all from zero. Imagine what you're doing to those municipalities now! You actually make them exercise yet until June. Develop their new structure and rules! Then, you know, there will be elections, there will be new councils, which will definitely start everything from the beginning. I therefore agree with Mrs Yalinsk that VARAM should take the beauty of his hands, draw up a model rule so that there is no such much money to spend. The money is needed for all other administrative costs, for the adaptation of forms that are relatively simple, but, believe me, also for a labour-intensive measure, and for other things. The fact that the real administrative costs will certainly be high (and perhaps the ministry itself on its own), in my opinion lies in the 82nd proposal, where Mr Pouce has proposed replacing one word with the first reading. In the past, it was said that the country would bear the administrative costs of the reform, whereas now it is the word "co-financed". (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U448	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U449	Targeted grants are very important. I remember Roy and Mersrag combined for 200,000... As they say, a total of 400... then they split up. Everyone took their 200 and left. There has now been co-financing. I think it would be logical, just... excluding Article 8 from this law, we got EUR 300 million on the roads... that we just sort of split it now. Well, there's a targeted grant... There are 40 municipalities. Seven with his tail millions each come together, now, promise it. Each one of us will have a part of our bike, and we will have a good reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U450	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U451	And now we will really come to the financial question. Culmination because... Thanks to Dan, who paid attention... You could take a look at the 82nd proposal in advance and understand what lies behind a single word. Because the main question is how much will the Latvian state pay for this reform? - not answered. I will be grateful to the Minister, the representatives of the VARAM, so that they can reveal to us this secret how much the ministry estimates that Latvia will pay for implementing this reform. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “89 million!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U452	The name to the Member, Marim...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U453	All the words contained in proposal 82.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U454	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U455	Colleagues! I'm not for money, because the target grant is probably necessary to integrate... and, most likely, the Cabinet of Ministers can also develop some methodology. But, I think, for the third reading absolutely, then there is a clarification, because... You can imagine... Do you think that these regions are united and that the existing composition of Members is now being overshadowed and waiting for them to finally be wiped out there? Well, probably not. But the task makes them come together now and make... In words, you are destined to leave, but do something! Then they won't. Well, that's why it's clear... Of course, the first thing to do is to lead it. And headed probably by the central municipality. The municipality of the Centre may do so, also covering the territories. So it is necessary to clarify who. Do not press potential... those who are at risk of some kind of punishment, make some changes to the Criminal Law to the detriment of themselves! So...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U456	I closed the debate. For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U457	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to point out that paragraph 8 provides that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development will develop a methodology by 1 July this year for the start-up of the new municipalities. And, as we have heard, the Commission's meeting intends to address a number of issues that have been addressed today from the Tribunal. Proposal 78 was supported by the Commission. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U458	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 78. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 55, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U459	The 79th proposal, tabled by Ms Indricsone, provides for clarification of point 9 of the transitional provisions on the question of how draft development planning documents are to be co-financed. Member Indriksone encouraged that the development of these projects by 1 June 2021 is managed by the largest municipality in terms of population. This proposal was partly supported by the Commission... like having a discussion in the past... that by the population of the largest municipality... establishing that updating of data is necessary and carried out on the basis of population registers. This proposal is therefore partly supported and included in 81. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U460	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U461	Yeah... This is where the interesting chapter begins. One point in the transitional provisions... It is a matter of full competence of the Territorial Development Planning Law. This issue was examined by the Commission in substance and decided that it was necessary to open up the Territorial Development Planning Law. I was against it. I was in favour of regulating all these issues in this law. The commission itself decided that still there. And now here, in the basic law, such an important thing is being proposed to be dealt with... that's still a very silly way to go... What Mrs Indricksones is proposing is just one chapter of that. She's just logical... the order that the largest municipality is, however, responsible for the process of drafting this common territorial development planning document and assumes this leadership throughout it. However, if we look at what is being offered... By 1 November 2021, within the framework of the territorial reform, the municipality shall co-finance the development of draft documents for development of mutually integrated territories from the financial resources allocated to the state budget. Development planning documents. How then these newly-created municipalities... Here's the same question I asked before. Mr. Pouce, you may feel boring or funny. ( Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J. Puce: Very good speech!) ) In my view, this question... general inclusion here... Like the previous question... is redundant. The previous reform has shown that it is not possible to do so; it is not necessary. Here, too, Mr. Pouce, perhaps because of some tumults... Having seen that the territorial development planning documents for municipalities are the same and in most municipalities are the same, without studying why they are the same, because quite simply was the VARAM programme, and then there simply the copy-paste collects these development programmes for all municipalities exactly as a result of these procurements. Where this is not the case, there are already normal development strategies and this is seen as a major problem and a solution is now being proposed. This will lead to exactly the same thing, it will also be simple. Not those planners! These planners will just take it and the cop-paste will make it: one for Rēzekne municipality, the same for Jēkabpils municipality... Just change those words there, and that's it. Colleagues, this title is left in this law at all. This will be a huge waste of money. In 2009, Mr Pouce, has there been any problem there at a time when there was no such point in the implementation of the reform? The new municipalities came together, took development programmes, merged, and everything happened. At the moment, you want the introduction of new planning systems in some form to take place.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U462	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U463	I understand, of course, that my proposal is partly supported, but what the Commission has prepared varies substantially, very significantly. That is a completely different proposal. I will not say that there is no need for joint work on development planning, but I cannot support in any way the fact that there will be municipalities in which a mandatory joint programming document will actually be imposed. It must be prepared jointly by two different municipalities, which will in fact be Daugavpils and Daugavpils novads, Rezekne and Rezekne novads, as well as Liepaja and Lower Kurzeme novads. That is, by nature, wrong. It is imperative for municipalities to cooperate, coordinate solutions and develop joint development in a coherent manner, but one document for two municipalities, which means that, first and foremost, one municipality will decide on the development of the other territory. This is the function and responsibility of each individual, and also responsibility. In my opinion, these can be two separate documents that are common... created by cooperation, both of which refer to joint projects, which will also be financed from the European... or something different. In my opinion, this is, by its very nature, absurd and incorrect. I can't do this... I will not be able to support it and I also agree that the Territorial Development Planning Law has only now started to be viewed and evaluated in fact. If it is supported here and agreed there that it is not the right solution, then it will be just one big mess to create.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U464	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U465	Well, let us look at these proposals in the context of proposal 82. What does proposal 82 provide? It is expected that the State will not finance all the costs of these reforms, but co-finance them. In that case, we should be very careful not to waste this money. In this case, Mr Pouce, say one thing that went wrong in 2009 at the preparation of the spatial planning document! Why couldn't you keep the old order? Why do you just need this here? the formation that you are currently offering, which already at the root shows that there will be problems? Let's see it in the root! Well, for example, Daugavpils municipality and Daugavpils city. Daugavpils city will figure out that Daugavpils region does not need such development projects. Well, they will block Daugavpils district projects, and Daugavpils region will respond with the same and tell you that Daugavpils does not need to. If they don't agree with each other, everything - the story is over, the money is just smoked. This is what Juris Puce now offers.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U466	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U467	Proposal 79 was partly supported and included in the Commission 81. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U468	Are Members willing to vote in favour of 79? ( The box “No! ”) ) Members do not want and agree with the Commission’s views.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U469	80. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported and included 81. - the Commission's proposal. The most important additions to this proposal are those relating to the development of territorial development planning documents for Daugavpils municipality with... Daugavpils municipality - with a municipality, Liepaja city - with Lejaskurzeme, and Rezekne city - with a municipality of Rēzekne. The Commission has partially supported and included 81. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U470	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U471	It is understandable why such a proposal has arisen because, in my opinion, in simply one night's time, the Ministry was unable to draw up a clear vision of these areas in the basic law already for the first reading. However, I must emphasise what Mrs Indicice has also said, who obviously has some understanding of the development of territorial development planning documents. In this case, what is proposed by Mr Puce, and what is also reflected in the Commission's further proposal, is the story of two autonomous municipalities... two or three, whatever place. But two autonomous municipalities - they have their own procedure in which they draw up development planning documents. These arrangements in 2009... the law does not regulate anything at all. Municipalities created... I can explain what happened next. Next came the new municipality, looked at what was created there. These procedures, which must pass through - population surveys, project planning, various... A whole range of different procedures to be followed for access to these development planning documents. This is a very expensive process. Nor will the government fund the whole process. It costs very much - this process goes through. In this case, you are already at the root of the fact that these projects are unlikely to fail at the end of the day. Because there are also some places here talking about conflicting municipalities. If we look at the county section, let's take the view, in Bauska district - there already signs that there are conflicting opinions. In Jelgava municipality - in particular. This will also apply to them. This newly created municipality will have to develop a single development strategy, go beyond, in principle, the autonomous boundaries of municipalities and begin to decide on a development plan for another municipality's territory. Colleagues, well, imagine where to develop the chemical plant? Where? Well, now Preili's newly created region. For example, there will be a parish coming to the Preiļi region, and now this parish will vote and pass through... Tell me that the chemical tyre processing plant has to be built in the Preili Centre... That will be their proposal. All right, I'm generalizing it now into unrealistic situations, but objectively! - this problem exists. And it will only be a waste of money if the state or local authorities now provide some resources to these combined territories. They're already working. They must be allowed to work in the way they have worked so far, as it was during the previous reform. With this, we only confuse what is already in operation. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U472	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U473	Hello, colleagues! I also do not really understand from the 80th proposal the sentence where it begins with "co-financing also grants to the development of joint spatial development planning documents". Is it supposed that Daugavpils city and Daugavpils region are developing their own separate documents (Interface: “It’s it!” ), as well as common... possible? Or (Interior: ‘That’s it!’) )... Because, colleagues, then perhaps there is a need for clarity here for the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U474	I closed the debate. The debate has already been closed. For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U475	In the Commission, this proposal was partly supported and included 81. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U476	Are Members asking for a vote? Members do not ask for a vote, so they agree with the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U477	Let's get to 81. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This was supported by the inclusion of recitals 79 and 80.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U478	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U479	Dear colleagues, Because a lot... Ms. Indricksone and Mr. Valaiņš (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) referred to the very many uncertainties that arise from this proposal. From a practical point of view, I have been trying to understand what has been tried to say and how this could be done in practice. Today, I have read an interview that the Minister has given me, and I understand what it is about to be absolutely safe. In order to compensate for this exception, which could not otherwise be achieved in negotiations with the coalition on the path of reform, these specific conditions are. And why are they? To reduce the attractiveness of individual existence. This proposal and proposal 106, which are grouped together, are very well described. Or it's much simpler: what you wanted, you got, because you didn't want to do together, you got tasks that you can't do. You won't, and let's just put it together. What are territorial development planning documents? Local government sustainable development strategy, development programme, territory planning, local planning. After this proposal, the conditions and modalities will be up to 1 December 2021, and the design will be on 30 June 2021. I am thinking about what it is said about, but reading and giving my colleagues a reading is very difficult to understand when they will have conditions and order and when they will have to be met, and when projects will be developed. Those municipalities that are... There will be new municipalities, and it is clear who will approve them. But who will approve programmes for Daugavpils with Daugavpils municipality, Liepaja with Lower Kurzeme and Rezekne with Rezekne municipality, here is unclear. It is just said here that they will develop projects. What will happen to those projects? And one more reservation I heard that these mystical programmes, spatial planning documents are necessary to attract the financial resources of the European Union, but, in our sub-committee, where there were representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and also in the planning documents, there is no obligation to do so, at least at this stage.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U480	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U481	No investment in Latvia can be made from the European Union's structural funds without these planning documents if they are not developed. Any investment in regions, in any municipality... cities are based directly on the existence or absence of these specific documents. At present, the proposal of the Commission responsible for these newly created regions, which concern major cities or any other region, in principle raises such a major pause in the drafting of these documents. The fact that this document has already been suspended in a very large number of territories... I can say it's safe that more than half of Latvia's territory has now stopped drafting these documents precisely because of legislative uncertainty. As much as you can rejoice at the fact that: well, see, the municipalities will not spend money on developing these documents. But you should be aware of the importance of these documents. You are talking about development, about investment in equity, about regional development. But for this to happen smoothly, these documents will have to be on the agenda. These proposals are, in fact, mixed... mixes its cards, how documents, development planning documents are currently being developed. More than half of the municipalities have now suspended the development of these documents in nature, not... No further discussion takes place, and perhaps (I would like to say - very probably!) , until 2021, when these newly created municipalities will come together, nothing will happen either, as it has not been clearly stated. The challenges that exist in different regions... regions of various development trends... to the possible hogs of each other... You also create it. You simply put this proposal on a big pause. Well, those who are economists talking about the development of the country, and very wise about how to do what is right and wrong... In this case, what you are going to do is absolutely for you to delay the European Union's structural funds' investment period for at least two or three years. Two to three years will pass until the newly created sites are re-launched from 2021 and will only be able to make any investment in these administrative areas from the European Union Structural Funds after two to three years. I think that this proposal will have very far-reaching consequences, and I have only the hope that the coalition will listen to and come to the mind on this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U482	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U483	I very much hope that Mr Adamovič will see this rule clarified by the third reading, because your previous rule, which was a source of indignation, did not yet include Mrs Indicice's proposal. Here, more. I'll be able to do it here... to explain in simple terms. This norm provides that Daugavpils City Municipality will develop a territory plan for Daugavpils Municipality, which will start working only after the 2021 municipal elections. Rēzekne city municipality will develop a plan for Rēzekne municipality, and Liepaja city municipality will develop a plan for the whole newly established municipality of Lower Kurzeme. Another question... How much will all these activities cost? Who will pay for it? And above all, who will ultimately approve these plans, which will be drawn up by local authorities... the municipalities of the municipality? Until these questions are answered, it is simply irresponsible to vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U484	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U485	To be honest, it is really difficult to talk about this issue, about this matter. I would like to remind you: perhaps remember what the initiators of this reform said when a new map of administrative territorial division was drawn up. What was the main argument? Well, here we are now going to see the development, and now investors are going to line up to invest in newly created areas. I understood in my naiveness that the initiators of these proposals, these roads, how to develop the newly created territories, have. What does that mean? This means that if it really existed in nature, then it should not be a break from existing municipalities to future municipalities. In this case, the vision of the development of the territories to be created could be proposed as an annex to this draft law. And then it would be easier and easier for newly created municipal councils to support or not support, agree or disagree, but also develop this new development model and plan. Today, there is indeed a rather large and very dangerous break in the bill from ideas in the form of plans to implementation, and this period will indeed, as several speakers have already said, be empty for investment, for support not only from European funds but also from the state budget, by the way.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U486	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U487	To be honest, with this proposal, if you can say so, Minister Puce has driven you all into the tree because of his tumults. If you listen, either, which is of general authority in relation to (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) ... The Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, for example, tells us that this is definitely useless. Are you interested in the opinion of businessmen or are you not interested? It is obviously not of interest because they understand that, with this proposal, investment in the regions is at risk. It is in danger that a break may occur. But what else do these development programmes serve? They also serve successfully the development of budget planning documents of municipalities and the development of each annual budget. And here the State Audit Office says... The State Audit Office specifically says in relation to this proposal that it could threaten investment... the success of these development programming documents at the present time in their use in the budgetary process. Colleagues, this very risky proposal, well, start thinking with your own head, not with the head of the Pouce!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U488	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U489	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to point out that we had a wide-ranging debate on this proposal, which is also somewhat linked to proposal 106. I would like to point out that representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development pointed to issues that are particularly relevant for large cities with an inclusive region. It is necessary to jointly plan the integrated development of this area. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Artur, it’s not about it!” ) And the way in which it is currently set out in the relevant proposals - it is possible to do so. If there is a need for legal clarification and there is insufficient clarity as to how the distribution of municipal responsibilities in relation to who will decide will be determined, we can make the necessary technical clarification at third reading. This proposal from the responsible commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U490	Please call me! We will vote for 81. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 23, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U491	82. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. Paragraph 10 of the transitional provision provides for the word ‘cover’ to be replaced by ‘co-financed’. It was supported by the Commission because of the discussions... It is not always possible, objectively, to cover entirely all potential expenditure that could be incurred. There were many different examples, so the Commission decided to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U492	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U493	Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Pūce goes to consult with municipalities, the draft law is in the pocket, goes and tells: “Highly honored colleagues! All the costs resulting from this reform will be covered by the state!” And it is also promulgated that the state will commit to financing the costs incurred by municipalities after the reform... administrative costs. What happens next? Every day, the minister becomes smarter, and everyone else becomes smarter and gradually starts to understand that its reform may not cost just a few million, perhaps its reform will actually cost only tens of million for administration alone. ( Interface: “Millions! ” ) And the Minister can already sit and laugh; unfortunately, he is not enough to come inside and talk about the reform. We have been calling on the Minister to come forward several times. But in this case, Minister, you have lied personally to all the local authorities in Latvia because you are going to bear the cost of the reform. Through the government, this bill went out with a clear trend that the government is to bear all the costs, administrative costs. And only at the moment you realized that these costs would perhaps not be up to the government budget, what do you say? ‘ Well, honorable municipalities, we will co-finance. We will simply co-finance, we cannot afford to finance this reform with the public budget." In this case, too, I would like to say that the municipalities did not come up with the fact that they needed this reform, the state had come up with the need for this reform. Minister Puce invented, “For Development/About!” thought they needed this reform, they just don't have anything to offer. You come by telling us how bad the tax reform is, but you do not offer anything in substance with regard to tax changes. The only thing you can offer is this reform, and you cannot even fund it properly. You cannot finance the administrative costs of the reform. It's so easy! You show your weakness and ignorance in relation to municipalities. You had no idea when drafting this bill, how much this reform will cost. You still have no idea how much this reform will cost. Even today, in this Chamber, the Minister does not know how much this reform will cost. ( Internouncing call.) No one knows this, but you have understood that the state budget will not have it in the pocket, that it will have to be covered by the municipalities themselves. And at what expense will they cover these costs? Well, colleagues! We're going to war with municipalities so far that... Do you want local authorities to accept that there will be paid education in the future? That is also possible, colleagues! In this way, it is also possible. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you not to support this very important and fundamental change in approach, which has been tabled at second reading, and the Minister to come and comment on how much this municipal reform will pay. Don't eat! Why did you come here today?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U494	Thank you. The speaking time is over. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U495	First. The term "co-financing" is a very dangerous concept. Several laws provide for the possibility for the government to co-finance proposals and projects of individual municipalities - insulation, relocation and so on, and so on. Everywhere there was and remains a reservation - 'as far as the budget can'. Secondly. Co-financing may take place where the other partner participates. Unfortunately, municipalities have not participated in the preparation of administrative territorial reform, so the call for co-financing means that you go to the pub, inviting the municipalities to participate in dinner, and when dinner is over, you say, "Well, listen, you pay for your eating, we will pay for your own." (Laughter) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U496	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U497	Yes, this proposal, my fellow Members, really two jokes, or such, is creating ridiculous examples. One is, so... The Lord invites the lady to dinner, I don’t know, Puce invites him to dinner and then says halfway: “But you know, I’ll just co-finance dinner.” (Laughter) And the other is the story that there is a job interview and the employee asks all kinds of questions. In the end, he was asked, “What about the salary?” That employee is so: “We need it!” (Laughter) Well, here's the same thing. If there is further clarification of how much co-financing will be co-financed, which municipalities will be co-financed? Then you could still understand. But now – “Well, that money will be?” - “Well, come on!” But how and for whom it is not clear. Colleagues! Now that is really not funny, because all the questions we have asked the Ministry are that they cannot, by their very nature, answer; they cannot answer how much administrative territorial reform will cost. They ask: "How much will administrative territorial reform cost?" Their answer is: “Look at the study of the Bank of Latvia! The benefit will be 189 million.’ Well, Mr Pouce, to the third reading, you should say at all, that you will not finance anything, that the local authorities will still need to co-finance some of the ministerial activities. ( Interface: A good proposal!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U498	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U499	This proposal does not deal with one relevant point in the forthcoming provision. Well, if even co-financing, but in what proportion, as the state offers municipalities: 50 to 50, 99 percent or... One percent? Yes, now there have just been comparisons with the date in the restaurant, I could also offer Latvia a typical comparison - a basket evening. We will be invited to a basket evening, where maybe the country will come with the smallest basket, but the municipality will have to bring a huge basket of everything that is growing or being produced in this particular municipality. The party evening, I think, must guarantee the country, and the country must prepare the biggest basket that is just there. This applies to you, Mr Zakatistov! So you can already pee that basket.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U500	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U501	When usually rejected... When the opposition submits proposals or new draft laws, the position usually does not accept them and rejects them, saying that no fiscal impact has been calculated. The reform is now under way and no fiscal impact has been calculated. We do not know what the funding will be for this reform. Minister Puce does not go into the tributary and does not say what the funding will be, what the co-financing will be, and so on. In principle, this draft law should be rejected for this very reason or, if it is approved in this wording and is moved in this way, it should be changed in the future in all the other laws and said that the fiscal impact is irrelevant. Well, what's the point... People don't need to know what Minister Puce does, people don't have to change politics at all. ( Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J. Pūce: “No! No, no! And! Yes!’ ) The problem, Juri, is that today you, as a minister, should go to the tunnel and say: “We will fund or co-finance so many millions.” ( Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development J. Pūce: “But it is in the budget, Aldi, voted already!” ) When you say specifically to which municipality and how... The problem is that the municipalities do not know it. ( Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J. Pūce: “It is written in the Opinion! The amount is exact for each municipality.’ ) No municipality knows exactly about this issue, and the problem is that you should climb the platform... You should climb into the barn and count all the municipalities... and count exactly how much money you give as a minister to each municipality. Otherwise, it turns out that it's something like the OIC, that no one knows anything, it seems necessary, it costs something, it costs something expensive. In the end, the entire company pays for it. Unknown much and unknown for a long time. That is why I am calling on you to climb the tributary as a minister, to be responsible - all municipalities, count the exact invoice of how much this whole thing will cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U502	Dear colleagues, it is time for a break. Members Dzintars, Feldmans, Zakaistovs, Pavļuts and Latkovskis are asking to announce a break at the Saeima sitting by 10 a.m. on 11 March this year. Do Members have objections? ( The box “No! ”) ) Are there any objections? Are there any objections? There is therefore no objection. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U503	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Inese Ikstena, Janīna Jalinska, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Janīna Kursīte, Anita Muižniece, Linda Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde, Juta Strīķe, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivars Zariņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-10-PT13-2047-U504	Colleagues, we will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. ( Interruption)
