ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U1	Honourable Members! The Presidium of the Saeima has received an application from 34 Members to declare the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, including the draft decision “On the action of the Cabinet of Ministers in a situation with the spread of the serious infectious disease Covid-19 in the territory of Latvia”. The Saeima Bureau has convened an extraordinary meeting on the agenda. On the agenda for the meeting on 5 March, we will return 10 minutes after the end of the agenda for the extraordinary session. To this end, the Bureau reports on its own-initiative proposals are on the agenda. And so Members Dombrovskis, Stepanenko, Gobzem, Ločmele-Lunova, Agešins, Reizniece-Ozola, Clementyev, Tutins, Plant, Liepiņa, Bergmanis, Valainis, Švecova, Krauze, Papule, Orlovs, Krišāns, Clementyev, Pimenov, Goldberg, Cilevičs, Nikonovs, Cabanov, Rubiks, Kucins, Dolgopolovs, Dūklavs, Kučinskis, Many, Schmidt, Jalinska, Urbanovičs, Sprūde and Zarins have submitted their own proposal – a draft decision on the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers in the situation with the spread of a dangerous infectious disease in the territory of Latvia. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's extraordinary sitting? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Consequently, Members have reservations. We must therefore decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. That would be on the agenda for the meeting of 12 March. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U2	Dear colleagues, While we're here... While we are discussing here the fuel day whether Jelgava is a larger city than Rezekne, there is in fact an emergency in the country. Coronovirus, colleagues, is an unprecedented threat to epidemiological safety. And I think you should be blind to ignore this. Unfortunately, colleagues, we see that one part of society believes, for example, that World Health Organisation statements on a pandemic do not change our situation; they believe that it is only the ability of skiers and travellers to be reasonable. They believe that we have a few more weeks to understand what countries like South Korea did correctly and what countries like Italy did wrong. I believe, colleagues, that this is an opinion that is too big... too much influence on decision-makers in our government... that such an opinion is wrong and irresponsible. Colleagues, let us ask ourselves: are we really prepared to develop our strategy to combat the spread of the corona virus just on calls for more washing hands and staying at home? Are we really ready to rely solely on humans to be reasonable and conscious? Colleagues, we need to understand that it is enough for one, only one unwise and unwitting person to decide to drive in crowded public transport or to go to a cinema or to a theatre or to a gym or to a supermarket... that there will be only one such unconscious person who will either not hear or will not respond to the calls to wash his hands more often and stay at home to infect several hundred other people... and creating... create a domino effect. So, colleagues, I think that the experience of other countries, and also what we know about the coronavirus, tells us that we need to make decisive decisions today - in fact yesterday's time - aimed at preventing the spread of this virus. That is absolutely the first. So here, colleagues, you... We invite the Cabinet to decide first of all on the introduction of an emergency situation in the territory of Latvia and to provide for the following measures. In the area of epidemiological security, first of all, to ensure the early closure of specific areas or establishments, including educational establishments, where the spread of a serious communicable disease is detected, as well as to significantly restrict the movement from and to closed areas and facilities for the purpose of preventive measures. We, fellow Members, need to set strict quarantine for those who are being observed and inform these people about it... on the responsibility of those who already stand up under our legislation today, in breach of epidemiological safety requirements. I will read to you, colleagues, in detail everything that is written in our detailed call. But first of all, we must do everything to prevent the spread of this virus from spreading too rapidly without relying on the calls to wash our hands and stay at home... We need to be decisive enough in this area. Second of all, we have to understand that it's all... you are now thinking about it in your budget for this year, you can forget about it. No revenue forecast will no longer be fulfilled. Okay, if there's some kind of growth this year. It must be understood that some sectors will be very severely affected by this coronavirus, first of all by air... In the coming weeks, if not in the days, our national carrier airBaltic. Secondly, tourism. All hotels, cafes, restaurants. The whole sector, which relies so heavily on foreign tourists, will be affected in the next round. Already in fact it is probably also a matter of a week, if not a day. All those involved in the organisation of public events: educational institutions, private educational institutions. We need to understand what we're doing, or we're...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U3	Thank you. The speaking time is over...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U4	... allow all of these companies to become massively bankrupt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U5	... and it shall not be extended. ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U6	Colleagues! I'm calling for a little time... Mr Aldis Gobzems, Member of the Parliament against, has applied to speak. Your speaking time is over, please, it cannot be extended. ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak. Time really ends...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U7	Dear Latvian society! I am against this being discussed next week at the next Saeima sitting. I am in favour of looking at it today and immediately. Dear Latvian society! We are on the eve of the super-crisis, which has already begun. That's the words that should have been for Prime Minister Kariņš at the moment. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Paviluts: “Premier in the crisis management session!” ) This crisis, on the eve of which we are, our country (Internext.) may be brought into bankruptcy as soon as possible. It is absolutely clear that this year's budget will not be implemented. It is clear that rapid, decisive decisions must be made, not continuous shares in PR. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ) We have seen Health Minister Viņķele regularly make PR campaigns with press conferences, announcing how ready our health system for the epidemic and pandemic is, but on public networks we see that people are constantly telling us that they cannot test on this virus, they can do it after 10 and how many days because they do not have the test. If it's ready, then I'm sorry. Is there a press conference in which the crisis telephone number is wrongly indicated? If this is the readiness of the Minister for Health, then I am very sorry. Is it ready to say that we will have a hundred beds in the hospital (perhaps all Members of the Saeima), but we do not know what to do in the situation and only look at other countries? And these are the issues that need to be addressed today. What... what the Prime Minister was supposed to do right now - not to sit in some... Someplace and pretend he works, but stay in the Saeima. ( Internouncing call.) Find yourself in the Saeima and society... come in front of a concrete action plan now! Secondly and above all. A coalition. You are a coalition, a law-makers, not a prime minister. And you must give instructions to the Prime Minister, not to the Prime Minister must give instructions to you. And therefore don't ye speak to me, and read in the Constitution, which is written, who is the legislator. The legislator must declare an emergency. ( Interface: “No, no! ” ) And it is essential to say (interim.) ... It is important to say the following: it is absolutely clear that restrictions are necessary, but these restrictions must be proportionate. Neither can we allow ourselves to panic, and I will explain why. ( Internouncing call.) The restrictions will slow down the epidemic, but, dear society, what you have to hear from this tribunal: that virus will and we will have to learn to live with this virus. This is the moment when we need time, we need to reduce the potential levels of the epidemic, but we need to do that when making decisions. And that's what you're burging in this place... You should have climbed into my place in the bar, because you're in power, but what you're doing is sitting like a puppet, without a solution. You were supposed to go on the tributary with a solution today. The opposition has proposed this solution. Some points can be discussed. But I want to stress once again to the public that this virus will not change! We have to learn to live together. We can limit the speed of its spread right now and get some time until the doctors find solutions to set a limit even further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U8	Colleagues, we will have to vote in favour of putting this draft decision on the agenda for the next sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers in the situation with the spread of the serious infectious disease Covid-19 in the territory of Latvia” on the agenda of the next session! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft decision is not included on the agenda of the next regular sitting. ( Milestones.) Colleagues, are there any proposals for transferring the draft decision to one of the commissions? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko. Turn on, please, a microphone...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U9	Please submit this draft decision to the National Security Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U10	So there is a proposal to refer the matter to the National Security Commission. Are there any other proposals? Mr. Blumberg, please turn on the microphone! ( Subtotal: ‘The Budget Commission! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U11	Yes! There is a proposal. The proposal is to refer the matter to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U12	Please turn on the microphone for Dana Reizniece-Ozolas.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U13	Colleagues, the proposal that, at least as co-responsible, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission should also be defined, given that there will be fiscal impact, and also the Social and Labour Commission, which is also responsible for the regulation of the health sector.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U14	Thank you. Proposal for co-responsible commissions Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I am no!” ) Consequently, it has been withdrawn. Colleagues, first we will vote in favour of transferring this draft decision to the National Security Commission, then we will vote... and then we will see whether there will be a need for further votes. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the National Security Commission the draft decision “On actions of the Cabinet of Ministers in the situation with the spread of the serious infectious disease Covid-19 in the territory of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 51, abstain - not. Consequently, the draft decision has not been referred to the National Security Commission. We will vote in favour of handing over the draft decision to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Mr. Gobzem, will you speak 'no'? ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U15	The state must put in place an emergency... and the fact that it will have an impact on the whole economy, that it can also destroy the economy, that it can leave people in a distant bankruptcy, can create panic. Maybe questions related to the essential... serious health threats, we will hand over to the Commission dealing with corruption... The logic is that such an issue is a matter of national security. It is a matter of national security. Human health is a matter of national security. Getting a state into a total bankruptcy is a matter of national security. Our airline's very big potential... economic failure is a matter of national security. All tourism and other sectors are issues of national security, education, all children are issues of national security, not of corruption. I understand these political games. I understand these political games! And you want to show their superiority that you have power and what you can't do here, but maybe think, people dear, what you'll do in the autumn. You'll tell me we've all been hit because the virus's coming? Because you looked at this issue in the Commission on Corruption? ( Insight: “Watching! ”) ) That... Feldman is sitting here... then there's some joke, this isn't a joke! This is both a question of health and of the country's economy, of how we will live what we will do! What we will do, what our national security will be if we close all the borders, for example, is it right or wrong. Is this a question of corruption? If people no longer have any money, is it a question of corruption? You probably have such an understanding: If people don't have money, you won't be able to corrupt you if? That is why you are giving it back to the Commission on Corruption, but that is a matter of national security. And as an additional commission, the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, which is responsible for health issues, should be appointed. In fact, this would be a logical solution. But what are you doing? Show me the power. You have power today. You have it today, you won't have it again after half a year. That is absolutely clear today. What you do, it's all! Get ready! You're going to run out of here soon! You'll run away from what you've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U16	Daniel Pavluts, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U17	Colleagues, where I really have to agree with the drafters of this decision is that the situation created by Covid-19 is most serious both in the world and in Latvia. That is why I would like to ask everyone - both in the Saeima and elsewhere in the country - to take this situation as seriously as this problem is serious, whether in the position or opposition. I think that what we will need to overcome the future turns of this crisis... because it is clear that it is not possible to prevent the spread of the virus, it is only possible to slow down its spread and reduce the consequences for public health, especially its most vulnerable members, as well as the Latvian economy, Latvian society as a whole... that this will require full cooperation. I am very sorry if this question - even this question! - there are no borders where politics takes place, where small, say, populist actions take place. ( Internouncing call.) I am calling very much (Minimum. Depp. A. Gobzem: “We called you! You rejected!” The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by a hammer. Depp. A. Gobzem: “You didn’t notice that you voted against an emergency sitting?” )...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U18	Let the man speak!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U19	I would like to ask all my colleagues here not to use this crisis to raise their political capital in detail! Please, please! With regard to which commission to refer this question, I could argue equally well that the question is closely linked to both...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U20	Mr Pavilut, the speaking time is over, it must not be extended.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U21	I support the transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U22	Mr Pavilut, the speaking time is over. Colleagues, we must vote in favour of transferring the draft decision to the committee. Please call me! We will vote for handing over the draft decision “On the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers in the situation with the spread of the serious infectious disease Covid-19 in the territory of Latvia” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - no, for - 1. Consequently, the draft decision has been referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. There is also a proposal to be referred as co-responsible commissions. It is maintained. Yeah. Colleagues, it is therefore a proposal that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission should be co-responsible. We will also vote on this. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft decision “On the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers in the situation with the spread of the serious infectious disease in the territory of Latvia” to the Committee on Budget and Financial (tax) establishing that it is the co-responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the decision has been taken and referred to the committee responsible. There is a proposal to set up the Social and Labour Affairs Commission as a co-responsible commission, and it is being maintained. ( The box “Does You Need It? ”) ; “ Need!” ) We will vote. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission the draft decision “On the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers in the situation with the spread of the serious infectious disease Covid-19 in the territory of Latvia” (Dep. Mr Stepanenko and Mr Depp. A. Gobzems: “On Children’s Rights!” ) establishing that it is a co-responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 34, for - 8. As a result, the draft decision is not transferred to the Social and Labour Commission as co-responsible commission. So the draft decision is referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption as the Commission responsible, as well as to the Commission responsible for Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. A deadline should therefore be set for the submission of proposals. Please, Budget and Finance... I apologise to the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission for setting a deadline for the submission of proposals. Turn on, please, a microphone member, Aldi Blumberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U23	Five days.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U24	So the tabling of proposals... So the deadline for submitting proposals is five days, it would be 17 March. Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U25	I believe that five days is too long in an emergency. I think the day is absolutely enough. ( Interface: “Five minutes! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U26	So it's one day. That means 13 March. Turn on, please, a microphone member, Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U27	One hour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U28	One hour. That means by 5 p.m. So let us vote in favour of the next 17 March this year. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submission of proposals for the draft decision “On the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers in a situation with the spread of the serious infectious disease Covid-19 in the territory of Latvia” - March 17, this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, against - 28, refrains - 2. Decision adopted. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 17 March this year. We have therefore examined the agenda for the extraordinary sitting. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U29	Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Anda Čakša, Raivis Dzintars, Inese Ikstena, Juris Jušas, Artuss Kaimiņš, Māris Kučinskis, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Romanas Naudiņš, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Juris Rancāns, Ivans Ribakovs, Inguna Rībena... Ryan is, Andris... I am sorry, Andris Skride, Karina Sprūde, Juta Strīķe, Edvins Šnore, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivars Zarins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-12-PT13-2051-U30	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. We will continue to discuss the agenda for the meeting on 5 March in Brussels.
