ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U1	Dear colleagues, Let us begin the second extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 29 May 2020. On the agenda, reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. Please activate... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Agenda items... Thank you. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Management of Covid-19 communicable Diseases” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and that it be the committee responsible. Mrs Stepanenko, will you talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U2	I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U3	Ms Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U4	Dear colleagues, I understand that most of you, especially my coalition colleagues, will want to support this draft law, because it comes from the government, and the government has, in principle, provided itself with a rather broad mandate in this law – to restrict the right of individuals to come together, to engage in business outside an emergency... not cover any losses which persons may incur in connection with this. This is the difference between the exceptional situation and this law. First. By eliminating the emergency situation, the Saeima may, of course, not support this order of the Cabinet of Ministers, if this order to the Saeima, legislator, senior power may seem inadequate. Secondly. The Cabinet of Ministers may, in any case, at any time, when it seems necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers, based on Covid-19 rules on restrictions of spread, limit both meetings, moves, various lessons as well as other events, providing for administrative responsibility for violation of these regulations. Dear colleagues, I call on you really to think very seriously that today, in these circumstances, when the Saeima discusses these issues in such an emergency regime... This is the fourth Saeima sitting... We are already, I understand, having adopted the product e-Saema, we can also end with these headphones and computers. So, with this emergency regime, you are now giving a very broad mandate to the government. And you will certainly have to explain to the public why the Saeima has decided today, in this late afternoon session on 29 May, to hand over the draft law to the commissions, without considering the consequences of that. We know that it is possible to table amendments. We know that there will be a process within the commissions, and we will be able to discuss this draft law. But... But the truth is that it is true that you have already decided everything, discussed it at your Cooperation Meeting, and this power will be transferred to the government. This is actually a modern coup! Colleagues! I call for the 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which is the committee responsible! For – 75, against – 1, abstaining – 3. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr Dombrovskis, will you talk about it or 'no'? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: “ Against” ) “ Against” has applied to speak to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U6	Dear colleagues, We have such a rather interesting situation here. On the one hand, Latvia... Our government positions Latvia as such a success story, compared to almost global Covid-19 fighting and... this time also compared with our neighbours – with Lithuania and Estonia. If we compare ourselves to Estonia, it is true that the number of people infected in Estonia has been almost twice as high as in Latvia and the number of deaths from Covid-19 has been almost three times higher than in Latvia. That is on the one hand. But, on the other hand, it is so interesting that Estonia, which seems to be not a success story, has already ended this exceptional situation as such. But our government, in fact, is fighting for every day of an emergency. The question is – why? Why, as we put an end to the emergency situation in words, do we see in our work that the government is now presenting a whole series of such draft laws, essentially similar to emergency laws, on some sort of fight against the consequences of the emergency situation, demands once again urgency and requires all its powers? Colleagues! This raises the question – why? What does all this mean, and why does the government need its powers? We have already seen that the government, unfortunately, has, in at least one very serious case, abused its powers, the powers conferred by the Saeima. ( I refer to the mandate given by the Saeima to the Minister for Finance to take a decision without coordination with the Saeima.) In particular, the government decided to allocate EUR 286 million to airBaltic from taxpayers' money – without any co-ordination with the legislator under secret conditions. Dear Government, you have this decision... with this decision you at least my... And I think you've lost our trust. And if we are a success story compared to Estonia, and if Estonia has put an end to that extraordinary situation, then I think we have to do it in the same way – not only in words, but also in works. I can understand that there is a need for some operationality with regard to some decisions, in order to combat their likelihood that the Covid-19 crisis could return in some way, although it does not seem very credible today, given the dynamics of all of them. But if the government demands a mega-power for itself in terms of how to learn (and I say exactly – “to learn”) them... How many are there?... three or five billion euros in the fight against the Covid-19 crisis, then on such a mandate, on consent to such a mandate, at least from my side, you can forget, the respected government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U7	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! On – 65, against – 1, abstaining – 3. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! For – 65, against – no, refrains – 2. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety” to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! For – 71, against – no, abstain – 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mrs Stepanenko will speak... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “The Against!” ) Jūlija Stepanenko, Member of the European Parliament, has applied against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U8	Dear colleagues, As I understand it, this draft law is also related to the previously supported draft law on the special powers of the Cabinet of Ministers in relation to the spread of Covid-19. I understand that, at present, the whole legislation is to a large extent... that, after this crisis, all restrictions will indeed be based on these concerns about the prevalence of Covid-19. And I personally have concerns about the government's abuse of this situation. We see that this is not only about purchasing, but also about restricting individual freedom. Unfortunately, we see that, with this exclusive power to fully limit everything possible in that country, the government has gone further. Well, of course, this emergency situation goes to the end and needs it... extend this sense of power, this possibility – limit at any time. And, of course, also get... ensure responsibility for non-compliance with these restrictions. This strange construction, which is intended for responsibility! This responsibility is for the fact that someone does not comply with the rules proposed by the Cabinet on the basis of this new Covid-19 law. It is not the responsibility that we should have something in the law, but it is the responsibility that the Cabinet has come up with the current restriction and now the person will have to answer for it. I call on colleagues not to support the transfer of this draft law to the Commission, because this draft law reinforces the previous draft law on the prevalence of Covid-19. These are the sanctions that you will be threatened with if you do not comply with the restrictions imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, which will be introduced due to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers will appear at one moment that the current restrictions must be imposed without declaring an emergency situation. We already have rules on infringement of the emergency situation, there are penalties, but now we have a new construction. Please be careful, honourable colleagues. Here in the Saeima, be careful and really don't let power too... Do not give too much power to the government and allow these penalties to be imposed simply because someone has a great interest in being in an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U9	Ms Linda Ozola, Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U10	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! As representatives of the opposition have spoken on several occasions, expressing various concerns about possible abuses of power by the government (in their words, perhaps) with regard to restrictions, I would nevertheless like to say the opposite. In my opinion, it is very far-reaching from the government – come in time with a package of such draft laws, so that the situation is regulated after the end of the emergency situation in the country and that people have a very predictable situation – what happens, how it happens, how it lasts. For the very first draft law, where also... was concerned that any restrictions on democracy could now remain in force for an unpredictable period of time. I would like to emphasise that, for example, the first draft law (in this package) makes it very clear that the law is in force for as long as there is a threat of epidemiological security in relation to the spread of Covid-19 infection. And, clearly, it will not be a government that will decide on the threat of epidemiological security, but it will be specialists in its industry, it will be epidemiologists who will recognise the existence or absence of such threat. I would also like to emphasise, for my part, that it is extremely important for us, too, that the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Justice, closely monitor the fact that democratic restrictions are not allowed to be abused. That is something that we, as the legislator for parliamentary scrutiny, will also continue to adhere to on our own side. And clearly! – this also applies to any type of administrative irregularity... the imposition of penalties and the imposition of penalties would not be abused. I therefore call on colleagues to support this and all the other draft laws contained in this legislative package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! For – 74, against – 2, abstain – 1. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Law on the Prevention and Management of the Risks of the Covid-19 and its Effects” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Members do not want to talk about and against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) of the draft law on the prevention and management of the threat and consequences of the expansion of the Covid-19, stating that it is the committee responsible! For – 63, against – no, refrains – 3. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On Emergency and Exceptional Situation” be submitted to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Members do not want to speak about the draft law. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Emergency and Exceptional Situations” establishing that it is the committee responsible! There is no – 58, against and abstains. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Commercial Bankruptcy Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Members have not applied for a bill. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Commercial Property”, which states that it is the committee responsible! There is no – 71, against and refrain from –. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mrs Stepanenko will talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U12	What do you think? Of course, 'no'!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U13	So, ‘to’. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak against”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U14	Colleagues! I also call for this draft law not to be passed on to the Commission because here, in this package, the urgent package, which came to the Saeima on Friday evening, includes amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, on which... I think that we will also have a discussion on these amendments, because these amendments are intended to ensure that certain services will no longer be available on the spot. And in this situation... I would not like to see an emergency being used to achieve any other objective. We know there's a... there are people in the regions who... on which we spoke in the previous sitting (on administrative reform) and there are, for example, such small cities... There are cities where people come from... several people in the day come to... at the Register of Enterprises... to these representatives in order to ensure that they receive any necessary services. And if these amendments are supported and come into force, you will definitely... You will have ensured that these people will be denied services... both farms and craftsmen. Not everyone lives in Riga, not everyone has the opportunity to provide everything with the help of an e-signature... all the needs they need in their daily lives. Therefore, honourable colleagues, take special note of this! If we compare notary services with Company Register services, then we see that there is, of course, a big difference here too. This draft law is attached to this package for incomprehensible reasons. I have to understand why. I hope that when we get to the first reading, the representatives of our applicants from the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to explain this. But what I see right now is really using this situation for strange purposes. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U15	Member Atis Zakaitistov has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U16	Good evening! It's Friday night, it's sunny evening, and it's weekends. And what I would like to see with regard to this bill – that we are modernising. And we're modernising Friday night, we're modernising a sunny night, and we're modernising for the weekend. I call on everyone to vote in favour. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-29-PT13-2087-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! For – 75, against – 1, refrains – none. Member Zakaistov has convinced us. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. We have examined the agenda of the sitting. Registration of Members is ongoing. Registration is complete. Thank you. So I closed the sitting.
