ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U1	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take office in the Chamber so that we can begin to review the agenda for the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 24 September this year. On the agenda - reports by the Saeima Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The commission presented its own proposal for terms of office, ethics and application – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 479 Latvian citizens “On the restriction of dismissed Members to stand for election””. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? Mrs Stepanenko, do you have any reservations? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Yes!” ) Thus, Member Stepanenko has objections to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting. So we must decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. Mrs Stepanenko, you want to talk about or against? Mrs Stepanenko, are you going to talk about or against? ‘ For’. So “for” is applied to speak in Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U2	Dear colleagues, This initiative clearly deserves the attention of the Saeima. And it's a pity that maybe... The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has taken such a decision that this initiative must be taken immediately without such serious discussion. Maybe I could also offer the next Saeima sitting... that this discussion may continue within the Legal Commission, because in fact this is a very interesting issue. And this issue is also linked to the parliamentary dismissal initiative, which is still trying to gather votes at the moment, but will probably fail this time, because a lot of votes is needed. We will also talk about this at the Saeima sitting today, talking about other issues, about citizens' initiatives. But, of course, one question that we can probably agree on here, too, is this: if the Saeima is dismissed for some kind of violation, for some crimes or for the fall of prestige, then it is not, in fact, that all the Members of the Saeima have taken part in this issue; certainly at least some Members in the Saeima will have been those who probably fought directly against... e.g. the ruling coalition. If we're talking about not fulfilling the promises made regarding medical wages, then... Here, however, the opposition should not deny the right to continue following the dismissal of the Saeima... To be candid. And I believe I really believe that this was not the intention of the applicants for this initiative, because it is clear that people's dissatisfied with the Saeima and perhaps also with the thought is very great. And so maybe... Well, even without going into the details, people have the desire to pull everyone away and then start again. But sometimes it's that... I don't know why it is -- or the media or anything else... that those good works that come from the opposition, and all that fight remains unseen. And people mostly think that everything is bad, everyone in that Saeima is bad, they're all deceiving and... and fail to keep his promises. That's not the case. That is why this debate - a debate on the right of redundant Members to stand as a candidate for accession to the next Saeima - would be very interesting from different... from various aspects. So perhaps it would not be right to say goodbye to this initiative right away. The initiative should be directed towards one of the commissions so that it can be improved, adjusted in some way. It may be that we need to talk about the right to withdraw Members, but this is, of course, already the case with the minority electoral system, because, for example, our constituents would be willing to withdraw Mr Pavļuta if they had such rights, and Mr Pavļuta's voters might be willing to withdraw us. That would not be right. So, honourable colleagues, maybe we can think about this initiative this week... Well, some kind of... Let us say that the debate is going on, because I think it is a very interesting legal issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U3	“About”, I am sorry, “to” applied to speak a Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U4	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Members! It sighed when I passed through Mr. Zakatistov... Now it is: “It’s Liepaja again on the podium!” Don't blow, don't blow. It's gonna be okay. Well, you're not going to be elected to the next Saeima. So... That's exactly what it is about. I think, Julia, I very much understand what you're saying, that you should think for a week. Here are many who will not have enough for a week, and many who will probably not have enough time until the end of their lives to think at all about what this story is about - to be a Member and elected representative of the people. It's not like you, Mr. Zakatistov, that mandate has been given from... from Turaida if. However, you have some number of votes and you must represent the interests of their people. I don't know how you're going down there at night with your... your conscience about whether you really represent them or not. So... Okay. Let it stay, who sleeps with him, with a conscience or... and so on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Interdependence of Geodans.) I think that we need to have a very serious debate on the issue in general, on things such as honour, respect, conscience, love for fellow human beings. The conversation, the peaceful conversation with the voter... Explaining, explaining the decisions of the Saeima, even the closest you make. The budget will be the next one that the Zacatistov will bring here... So that's a really different story, it's more landy... And then... I think this is not a problem at all for those people who really are the leaders of such a nation... Zakaistov, you need to understand... you have that bowed tongue, the front of the people... Yeah, straighten the back now... The leaders of the people... Well, deserve someone who's been... Well, just from... as a law allows... If he is a good leader of a people, loved by a nation that you will never be again, then may I, after that, take up the office of Member of the Saeima for all his life, but it does not apply to you, because your time is over, the lord of the traitor!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U5	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. We must decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the “10 479 Latvian citizens' collective application on the restriction to stand as a candidate in elections” in the agenda of the next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the next meeting. And now - the draft decision “On the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to suspend the recovery of late payments from taxpayers implemented by the State Revenue Service”. Dear colleagues, Members Linda Liepiņa, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Didzis Šmits, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Gundars Dauge, Viktors Valainis, Inguna Ribena, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Lubova Švecova and Regina Ločmele-Lunova have submitted their own proposal for a decision “On the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to suspend the recovery of the state revenue allowance from taxpayers”. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are therefore no objections. We are starting to examine the draft decision. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa is a circle.) So on the agenda - the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to suspend the recovery from taxpayers of the state revenue service cut-off benefits implemented by the State Revenue Service”. Let us start a debate. On behalf of the applicants - Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U6	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. And this is the time I want to tell you colleagues! Everyone, because no one exaggerated and said 'no' to make this our proposal for such a decision against the activities of the State Revenue Service possible after the debate, which will now begin. That is why I ask and call... Colleagues, come and tell, talk, explain your position... if someone is 'no', we may have some consensus. But, see, it's a good sign if. A week ago, Mr. Latkovsky said that he was 'no'. And that is why we did not look at this issue in the last sitting. Let's see it today. Mr. Latkovsky is not on the ground. I very much hope he's eaten this week, drunk... We called on businessmen not to serve those leaders of the people who do not listen to what they said. Entrepreneurs have very big problems, constant problems with the State Revenue Service. The priorities of the State Revenue Service are absolutely incomprehensible, and it is direct - it is direct! - Ata Zakatistova's responsibility, which is Parliamentary Secretary Reira. And your help is the State Revenue Service. At least if it is true what you told me back then. Who knows that? You can also lie, it is not a problem at all. Mr. Divkosy, as you call it... Okay, it doesn't matter what you call it. But remember, in the software... What was written in the pre-election programme of the political party KPV LV? Reform State Revenue Service! Reformed already, isn't it? It's genetic! The job's up. Only Member Linda Liepiņa has taken an interest in the employees of the State Revenue Service, what they think - how has the reform been done to this young earth. And now, you know, blue wonders come out there. It's like there's... I would like to ask Mr. Girgens to take an interest in his Public Expenditure and Audit Commission, what is really happening there, in the State Revenue Service. Bardak! A specific barrack! And that's your barrack that you're sitting in that parliamentary... I wanted to say "investigators". So who are you an investigator? No investigator! You're some sec...! That beardack... Refers to the money that... You are paid the salary for which your party, your pocket party... Yes, your pocket party... 600... what was that? Help! 660...? 650 thousand? You know, the honourable traitor, I've got all the information you're washing in the lot. For that, for all the expenses that are pre-election expenses. Name those numbers? ( Internouncing call.) Name? Real Numbers... how much you spent on zero place in Riga City Council - 340 thousand. 340 thousand! You think I don't know what's the first thing your pocket guy Pucens sent to you on a party about the guard... Security statement... What is it? Forget it, Erik? Reminder? Yeah, the first offer is your... What was it? ( I want to drink water.) Hopefully not poisoned, you can drink. ( Interface: “May, may! ”) (Laughter) Well, Erik, what was the first estimate? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucen’s exclamation.) Thank God, there are some remains of common sense - in your already rotten party, which has been raised by Zakaistov, a wise man. So Eric Pucen ran off with an estimate. Now... And now let go of your fiction. Congress, yes. How much more “CPV LV” can you call at the convention today? We all saw something in there... Well, nobody, yeah. ( Internouncing call.) This is exactly... I am referring specifically to the Parliamentary Secretary and the State Revenue Service.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U7	Mrs. Liepaja! Mrs. Liepaja! Please talk about the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to stop the refund of the lower end benefits implemented by the SRS from the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U8	That's it! That's... If you do not know - State Revenue Service under their supervision is. I would like to show you what kind of person is currently supervised by the State Revenue Service at the Ministry of Finance. What's wrong with you, Mr. Judin? ( Internouncing call.) It is clear to me that the Unity is leading the Ministry of Finance. But, of course! - You, too, when I talk about a journalist's cartel... you yell because the cartel has been made by Solvita Aboltiņa. What are you doing here now? No, of course, the frame of Unity - the next behind Latkovsky... Get out of the hall! ( Internouncing call.) Now I'm coming back... I'm back to the guard. Eric! Guard, one person for a whole working day... Your offer - EUR 1000 per person. Come ahead, how... I do not know if you are washing public funding in all the parties. You really don't care? And those taxpayers pay for it. Yeah, that's... Yeah...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U9	Mrs. Liepaja! I understand that you are in pain with regard to KPV LV, but what if you returned to the specific draft decision...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U10	That's it! But here's that draft decision...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U11	... on the task of the Cabinet of Ministers?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U12	... This is about taxpayers' money. The draft decision that is now being taken back. He gave me little benefits. He gave me some graves after. The new earth was disgusting for all the entrepreneurs - for all the entrepreneurs were disgusting! One person has been granted a allowance of four euros! Ha-ha-ha! Imagine this! Oh, my God! How many in Latvia are there? It turns out - suddenly we understood: entrepreneurs do not deserve in Latvia. Oh, my God! No, they definitely deserve it. They're hiding something. Yes, every businessman, everyone, has a bunker, and there's a wagon with gold bars in the bunker. Hello! Try not to support this draft decision, and you will see how entrepreneurs will stand up and turn against you, not tomorrow, but today. And, Mr. Judin, you will be the guardian of Unity. Oh, shit and hell!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U13	Colleagues! However, I remind you that we are in Parliament. Let us respect Parliament and our colleagues here in Saeima's meeting room! The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U14	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to thank all the Members of the Saeima, colleagues who, at the last sitting of the Saeima, supported the progress of this draft decision, in any other way. Unfortunately, we missed a little so that we could turn to the Cabinet of Ministers with such an initiative. However, I call for this time to receive and vote in favour, because we, as the supreme decision-making power, also have the right to intervene in this unstandard situation, because this is really an unstandard situation. The State Revenue Service now considers the decisions made urgently during the emergency period to be unjustified and hostile to the recipients of this benefit. In our view, this is not a normal situation. In our view, we must first of all, of course, clarify the Request Commission... We have already made this request and are looking forward to the opening of this commission by Mr Pug, so that we can find out all the details why the State Revenue Service considers that these idle benefits have been unduly paid; who is responsible for it; who is prepared perhaps to compensate the State for those losses from his pocket if those losses are actually present. How big are those losses? Perhaps it is about EUR 10, maybe it is about a little more. But, colleagues, in any case... on that background, when one member of the government says that we have a lot of money and that we are ready to support big businessmen and airBaltic, and what isn't so... At the same time, to go after the idle benefits that were unduly paid by the State Revenue Service due to the fault of the State Revenue Service - this, in my opinion, is not only a bad signal, it is a terrible signal to the business environment in general! If you do not understand that, perhaps talk to those people from whom these benefits are refunded and ask what they are thinking about paying taxes in that country. Therefore, my fellow Members, I really call for this situation not to be resolved by itself. We must intervene as a mediator between the State Revenue Service and businessmen and find out the whole truth - how it really is, why it is wrong. Why this positive administrative act is abolished by the State Revenue Service. I therefore call on you: today we are indeed receiving and voting in favour! Let's be clear about what wasn't really there... and how we can understand what to do on Mondays. This situation is not normal. I call on you to support our draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U15	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U16	Colleagues Members of the Saeima! We have had an emergency, a time of crisis, where a huge number of entrepreneurs had to react very quickly and provide support. He walked like stones, rebelling in a crisis, but support was given to entrepreneurs. And the State Revenue Service itself admits that it was possible to make mistakes in such an intensive working regime. And I think it's also a keyword, or... the idea that the State Revenue Service itself admits that it was possible to make mistakes. Yes, already now, the State Revenue Service has recorded that part of the cases in which companies receive a terminal benefit... had accepted new staff at the same time, although this - according to the rules - was not allowed. Some of the companies had slashed cheques that were subsequently submitted to the cheque lottery. But not in all cases, entrepreneurs have abused the situation and have claimed the benefits they are not entitled to. And that is why, as colleagues, we have to stop now the State Revenue Service... this action must stop the recovery of these idle benefits - stop until all the facts have been ascertained, to understand whether and in which cases such undue payment has also been made due to the fault or error of the SRS itself. Even in cases where the company may have done some kind of activity that was not permitted under the rules... I think we need to be much more welcome. And, I accept, the State Revenue Service would also be happy to do so. I understand them, they are now acting as an executive body - in accordance with the existing rules. But this is our mandate: if we see that regulation needs to be changed, then we must do so so that the employees of the State Revenue Service have the opportunity to be more friendly to the businessman and not to claim these paid stop benefits. They can't do it on their own head. They need a parliamentary mandate (probably also a government mandate in some case). But so that we can do this, we need full information, and by then any actions must be stopped by the State Revenue Service. Colleagues! I also call for support for this task. At the same time, we have already prepared the questions of the government last week, to which we want to expect answers so that decisions can be made with competence and, if necessary, to change the rules of the game so that companies can enjoy the approval of the SRS. I also stress once again that in any case where there are doubts about the good faith of an undertaking or where there is a suspicion of an inappropriate payment of a idle benefit, and where there is no one hundred percent belief that the benefit has been unduly paid, the decision must always be in favour of the economic operator or undertaking. And even if the obligation to make a refund arises, the State Revenue Service must offer any flexible solutions to the company (e.g. in the form of tax offsetting). Since we ask to support this task, to expect answers from the government, on the part of the State Revenue Service, to make the necessary corrections so that SRS can be friendly to entrepreneurs, thus demonstrating that we really care that entrepreneurs are dealing with this crisis; that we really care that company employees receive the necessary support during the crisis; that we really care that people next year and next year have both faith in the state and the desire to do business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U17	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U18	The applicants of this draft decision are very correct, because in fact the real name should be: “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to stop Janis Reira. It's recommended, together with Krišjānis Kariņš. It is recommended that both are released’. Because no matter how silly the decisions are made by an official (including the State Revenue Service) on this particular issue, it is not possible, as we understand, in circumstances where political leadership would not agree to it, it would not be encouraged, it would not be supported. And the causality of the whole of this is not the result of... I do not want to say that from the entire government (I know there are also reasonable people in the government), but from the understanding of Jānis Reira and Krišjānis Kariņš (who is still the employer of Janis Reiras), or rather from the lack of full understanding of economic processes, including decisions that should be taken during the crisis. And, among other things, exactly for the idle benefits. I understand that to this day it has not been understood. Where was the greatest folly of the idle benefits, if we compare it to countries that say that they used it correctly, understood it at all? We looked at cut-off benefits rather than supporting entrepreneurs so that they could maintain, say, their capacity during the crisis (this would be the only right view!) ... We looked completely different. I will give one example. The timber company employs 700 employees, is in crisis, they are in demand for production... the market volume has fallen by 30-40 per cent. The number of employees that the entrepreneur has so far, at this time of crisis, is neither necessary nor financially viable. But if he let them go of the unemployed, he'll be in a very high risk that he won't get them back, and when the market gets back, he won't be able to raise his capacity to the right level. That's why the idea of idle benefits - general, the main idea - was to talk to entrepreneurs, to each other... co-finance with state support the leave of these workers - stay in work, not going home and not working! How was this allowance applied? He could have been punished for the fact that the beneficiary of the stop support was not at home but at work, but he should have been doing quite the other way around - he had to stay in the workplace, he would have had to come to work! He could have been employed, not in his direct responsibilities, but in others. He could also be lent to another company, which may have been growing in demand during the crisis. And the companies to which he was growing were. This was the case, for example, in the food industry. That was what I had to do. Everything was done quite the opposite. All right, Jānis Reirs said that we will not provide support to companies, we will provide a idle benefit to a particular natural person. Yeah, by the drop in company parameters... where we see that this problem could be objective... People have not received this support. For companies... But for natural persons... from day one... And now that it turns out that the State Revenue Service is wrong, we will recover the money paid from these natural persons! Well, maybe if someone's wrong, he'd be fired. It cannot be that what is wrong recovers the payment for his error from those against whom he has made a mistake - against Latvian natural persons, the living people who have spent EUR 700, of course, a long time ago. And the last thing I want to say. While all of you in the coalition will keep Krišjānis Kariņš on the chair with his friend John Reirs, your time in these chairs will quickly end. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U19	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U20	Colleagues! Not so long ago, this was not the case when these soft start benefits were introduced as such at all. I think we all remember how this happened. That was, in fact, a great consensus in Parliament. There was a great deal of dispute, but these Covid-19 laws, in which these retirement benefits were intended, were in fact adopted by the parliament by a great consensus. Remember how it all happened. At first came with the first offer, then it's all... it was automatically recorded that something doesn't fit - some catering, some businessmen, one or the other... And that circle was constantly expanded. This has always happened! And in fact, it was not a challenge for both Parliament and business, both to ensure work and also for businesses to fight for their survival. I think there were various mistakes in the whole flow of information, in the flow of restrictions, naturally... was allowed. And these mistakes were made both among businessmen who maybe this... regulation was not understood by each other, but also by public administration. In public administration too, I think quite a lot of mistakes have been made: the very large mistakes that we are pretending not to see today do not remember that something like that has happened. However, it was a peculiar struggle for survival for these entrepreneurs, where the country came to help. Of course, there was no instructions; each could follow through various organizations, Saeima sittings, communication with the State Revenue Service, which was simply overloaded at that time and took various business rescue decisions. At the end of the day, there are mistakes, and it is normal for people to make mistakes. The question is, what is the main point of this task at all? Stop those entrepreneurs who have made mistakes. I have quite a cause for concern that at least the cases that have been voiced in public space, those that we are talking about in public space, those that are discussed in radio broadcasts, are not necessarily those that have attempted to defraud something from the country. None of those cases is so! The examples are those who pass through the letter: “You’ve issued one check during that period, so you don’t have to.... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Give back those of your idle benefits! Oh, God, you've taken one employee to work!... “ These are the examples. In my opinion, addressing these entrepreneurs now, when, thank God, in some way, the business figures also start to improve - addressing these entrepreneurs is, in my opinion, completely out of place at the moment. And the performance of the role of the officers of this letter, which is currently being demonstrated by the State Revenue Service, should be stopped – at least for a time to evaluate or change the regulatory framework, should be suspended. We are going to comply with the law now with such a great feeling - State Revenue Service! Going to comply with the law is against businessmen who have failed to meet one or the other's standards. At the same time, we are in no way... It also took various other decisions during the Covid-19 crisis - either, for example, the decision to provide support to airBaltic. These were not a few tens of euros, they were hundreds of millions invested in airBaltic at that time. Has anyone assessed the reasonableness of the matter? What's going on with this money? What is its outlook for the future? Will we ever get this money back? This type of question. The big things are just forgotten. At the same time, public confidence in Parliament in this case... And here I would like to put... It is very good that Mr. Pabrik is here. And here I would like to put two things together. We had the opinion of the State Audit Office: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence, which now bought these breathers, these protective masks... Whoever did it, both of them did it in violation of the law, both of them did it in a very dubious way, both of them raised public concerns about the legal and transparent nature of these transactions for very large amounts. Did anyone turn to someone there? Everything was justified, saying: “There’s a Covid-19 time! Or, we really needed... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We weren't ready for it, we did it, I'm sorry, we're working on it." This is the attitude of public administration. But right now, when entrepreneurs get too little things... and things more crucial for their development, for their future business... We find ourselves in a situation where we show with full rigour by law how strict the country is and that money needs to be returned. Colleagues! In my opinion, this task must be supported, because in this way we can only promote confidence in public administration. To encourage public administration to listen to these entrepreneurial reflections and indeed to act as well, rather than continue to watch entrepreneurs suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U21	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U22	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, We are now having a debate here and arguing about cut-off benefits from the moment of adoption. And everyone knows that these visions have been quite, quite different. I've been here many times... and many other colleagues have said to you that the way in which those benefits were introduced and paid - that it was a mistake. And that mistakes make are okay, acceptable. Only those who do nothing make no mistakes. But it is very important to understand that this “something” was a mistake. Unfortunately, the State Revenue Service's actions show that its perception of the fact that it was a mistake is at zero level. And that's why we need to go through that question again. Colleagues! It was a mistake for two main reasons. First. There was an error in attracting soft benefits to labour taxes, more specifically to social taxes. That, colleagues, shows that there is a zero understanding of the nature of insurance. You cannot take insurance against the disease, you cannot take insurance against a pandemic, an earthquake, or something like that. Even insurance against job losses is not possible if jobs are lost massively. You can try to go to a private insurer and try to insure against the stychia. You can't, you can't, you can't. That's not working. The assumption that people only pay taxes in the form of labour taxes is wrong at the very root. People are also paying taxes... as the same VAT - value added tax... and many others. Colleagues, that is why this policy - to attract social tax payments - was wrong at the very root. Second, colleagues. From the point of view of macroeconomic stabilisation. You have an economic crisis, we have an economic crisis. Clearly, gross domestic product is falling... it will soon fall due to a decrease in total demand. What should we do? We need to warm the economy, compensate for this demand. I remember that not so long ago in one of the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) colleagues from the New Conservative Party stood for this because of the construction projects of the Liepaja prison, so that it creates some large multipliers. If the crisis, colleagues, is today, then the plan to build something in a year's time... no demand compensation, no multipliers. Cannot create it. But what can be compensated is that... If... you give people money, funds today. And the more money you give them, the greater the compensation it will be. So, colleagues, if, despite all of them, two billion euros... where its demand compensation, economic heating really would have an immediate and direct effect, was invested only - how much? EUR 58 million. And then there are some wonders - why, when comparing the drop in Latvia's gross domestic product in the second quarter... Why in Latvia this drop has been greater than in Estonia or Lithuania? Well, that's why. Colleagues, this is the ABC of macroeconomic policy in fact. It's so simple! Yeah... Giving 250 million airBaltic to buy new aircraft... it has nothing to do with internal demand here in Latvia. None! But if you give it today, right away, money to those people who have lost their jobs - it's got it! Therefore, what the State Revenue Service does shows that it still does not understand. And that's why we have to talk about it again and again and again. Unfortunately, colleagues. I therefore call on this to be supported, at least so that the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service can finally understand something about the ABC of the macroeconomic stabilisation policy, perhaps at the same time - about the nature of social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U23	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U24	Dear colleagues, Listening to all of this, I get... Also, in connection with yesterday's meeting of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, there is a question: what is our country's priority? On the one hand, we are giving these soft allowances, and the Ministry of Economics has also granted additional funding to small businesses, but that is a small drop. And it's just a short-term event to be able to get out of all this... system. On the other hand, we are imposing civil servants. And as an example, more than 4 million have been paid to the members of the Board of Governors without any justification over these four years. The question was for the State Audit Office - how many recovery processes have you started? The answer was zero. But, of course, information about recovery has also been sent to the State Police. But the worst news is that only 20,000 of these 4 million have been recovered. In my view, it is regrettable that we are thinking more of the civil administration on the part of the government than of small entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U25	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? I'm sorry. So the debate is closed. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to suspend the recovery from taxpayers of the state revenue service cut-off benefits implemented by the State Revenue Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 34, against - 48 (Applause) , abstaining - 4. The draft decision is rejected. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Andra Kazinovsky from the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Andra Kazinovska from the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Ulda Budriķis to the Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the member of the Saeima to the Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Ramona Petraviča to the National Security Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Ramona Petraviča to the National Security Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Aivars Geidans to the European Affairs Commission. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Aivars Geidans to the European Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Member Ralfa Nemiro to the European Affairs Commission. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Ralfa Nemiro to the European Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision on the approval of the National Defence Concept. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U26	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members and honourable Members, The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has looked at the concept of State Defence at its meeting on 9 September this year. It is a key planning document for the defence sector, based on the National Security Concepts and the analysis of military threats. Based on the objectives and principles set in the National Defence Concept, the National Defence Plan, which includes concrete measures to achieve the objectives, and the National Armed Forces Development Plan, are being developed. The aim of the national defence strategy is to make Latvia's defence strong enough so that any attack would cause a significantly greater damage to the aggressor compared to potential benefits, thus deterring it from committing attacks. The Strategy notes that the National Armed Forces are ready to protect Latvia in case of a military attack. At the same time, Latvian society must have a clear understanding that no one else will be able to protect Latvia if Latvian society is not prepared to do so. Abstention also consists of the will of society to protect the country and timely preparedness for all kinds of shocks. Comprehensive protection is the best instrument for building a sustainable society. It builds not only on the readiness to overcome the shocks of peace and war, but also on reducing the gap of distrust between the population and public administration, as well as uniting society as a whole. In the concept under consideration, the strategic objectives of national defence are based on four pillars: the National Armed Forces, comprehensive defence, NATO collective defence and international cooperation. The concept of national defence indicates that, while maintaining the existing level of defence funding, only the most necessary capabilities can be developed. Therefore, capabilities such as medium-range air protection, active maritime protection and the development of indirect fire support for long-term activities will only be possible in the long term. Here is a place to remind the President of the Republic of Lithuania at the sitting of the Saeima of 3 September: “External and internal security must continue to be our priority. In this difficult situation, you can't relax!" ( End quoted) It is to be welcomed that, in the area of defence, we must continue the plans that have been made, in particular the procurement for strengthening our military capabilities. It would not be acceptable to reduce them by mechanically pointing to the decrease in gross domestic product this year as a result of the Covid-19. The basic principle of national defence - cooperation with civil structures is also emphasised. This means cooperation of NBS with Latvian universities and the health sector. The civil protection system is an integral part of the national security system, which provides the basis for the effective and comprehensive functioning of the national defence system by ensuring coordination between civil and military institutions, coordination of resources and harmonisation of capabilities. The concept highlights implementation of NATO's key requirements as an essential aspect of the civilian sector, providing critical services to citizens and civilian support for military operations. Unlike the national defence strategy so far in force, the innovation in this is comprehensive protection. This is worth emphasising, as it requires the involvement of society as a whole. The aim of comprehensive state defence is to ensure that state institutions, public organisations and citizens want to defend the state and are ready to provide support to the National Armed Forces and implement vital functions for the existence of society and economy, as well as civil protection activities during the war. The concept highlights such aspects as the continuity of state power, public stability, protection of information space, resilience of the economy, cyber security and others. The education of young people should be highlighted in particular. For the first time, the National Defence Concept distributes cooperation with individual countries, calling strategic cooperation partners and describing specific directions of development of actions. When it comes to national defence resources, there is not only a budget, which is undoubtedly a prerequisite for implementing the concept, but also a very important one! - personnel, security of supply, reserves of materials in the sectors, and - this is essential! - industry, too. More about the content of this concept will probably be introduced to you by the Minister of Defence, Dr. Artis Pabriks. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has evaluated and supports the State Defence concept under consideration and invites the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U27	Thank you to the rapporteur. Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U28	Madam President, Dear Members, colleagues! Every Latvian parliament, every parliamentary term of the Saeima, every four years must approve the concept of national defence. Today is the day that has come to you. That is why this document is also before you. And I thank the Commission for its work, for its evaluation and also for the clarification of former Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmans. The importance of the concept of national defence is so important, and this support from the parliament is so important, because further, based on this concept, the National Defence Plan is being developed. And, of course, the National Defence Plan describes in detail all what we could do in one or the other, or in the third crisis that could happen. This concept of national defence has also not arisen in an empty place. It is a continuation, and it is a follow-up to previous concepts that have been approved... The previous concept was confirmed in 2016. If we look at what has been said in this concept, I would like to focus here on a number of important things. The first is, of course, that we understand that, to a large extent, our security is linked and depends directly on those aspects of global security that are around our country and that affect both the European continent, the transatlantic union and the whole world. In our particular case, the most important military challenge for national security remains our neighbour, Russia. At present, very many minds and eyes follow what is happening in our second neighbouring country, Belarus. And we know that, from a military point of view, if Belarus loses its independence, if Belarus is fully integrated into Russia in some form, then it will pose even more military challenges to our security than it has been to date. Why? Because it will allow the Russian armed forces to move freely across the territory of Belarus. To date. Although Belarus has been very closely connected to Russia so far, it was not that simple. Even yesterday in the 900 seconds programme, I showed these maps to our viewers, to citizens, because it is our task to inform citizens in good time, because a country, a democratic state, can only be based on knowledgeable and understanding citizens. In this particular case, also these days, serious military exercises are taking place in our neighbouring Belarus and Russia, where there is also a serious transfer of Russian forces to Belarus. Right next to the so-called Suvalka Corridor. And we don't know how long these forces will continue to stay there, whether they want to rotate and be there for permanent stay. And all this is, of course, also in close connection with the possible political changes that we are concerned about and which we are following in the neighbourhood of Belarus. Russia is constantly carrying out various types of military training, either to delimit Northern Europe from providing assistance from the United States or to restrict the Baltic Sea or the Baltic States. Here, as traditional, we can mention Russian military teachings such as Grom or Zapad, which take place every year. We also know from those reports that Latvia and... At the Baltic border... every week there are various types of Russian warships, submarines, air fighters, as well as strategic bombers flying near us and, of course, can also carry nuclear weapons on their side. What do we say in the concept of national defence? Of course, as Mr Bergmanis has already said, it is important for us to keep at least two per cent of the gross domestic product defence budget, because if we slow down at least once with this development, it would mean that, in large trains, we will slow down the development of the armed forces for three to five years. And that would not be acceptable under any circumstances. From this point of view, I must also report to you that, up to now, we have had very good cooperation with the Prime Minister and also with the Minister of Finance and with the President, because all three officials, like the President of the Saeima, are in favour of not reducing the budget for our protection - despite various crises. And I think we can thank you not only for our soldiers, but also for all those civilians, businesses and all those who are involved in the field of defence, directly or indirectly. As you know, for quite a number of years now, we also have the so-called Federation of the Military Industry. And it is thanks to our National Armed Forces' various orders that our industry continues to accept, our innovations remain increasingly competitive, both in Europe and globally. And from this point of view, I also wanted to use this speech before you to draw attention once again to the fact that the President of the Bank of Latvia has said in one of the media today, namely that it is high time for us to think about the fact that we have different types of unjustified requirements - either Latvian banks or through Latvian banks - that our entrepreneurs do not sink Latvian business, Latvia's commerce, because the fact that we have had black sheep does not mean that we have to kill the whole Latvian economy, the whole Latvian business that we have to stop Latvia's exports and attract investment. If we see all those countries outside the European Union in the risk zone, then all our speeches about the work of the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia in Singapore, Dubai or wherever - in Asia or in some other regions - there are, in simple terms, a cat under the tail. For who will then be able to operate there if their accounts are frozen, if they are open at all? And this is one of the problems facing our defence industry, which, by the way, is the same as our allies, the countries of the European Union, NATO, the United States, investors who are going to the banks and who are told for some reason that, here, they cannot open an account. That's how absurd we're! In this respect, I would also like to report to you, as the highest legislative body in a democratic country, that I have asked for a letter to be drawn up in this regard, which I will present to both the Prime Minister, the President and all my fellow ministers, as well as to the Prosecutor-General and perhaps the general public, because in the near future we have to resolve this issue together. This is not an issue that I alone, as a defence minister, have the ability to deal with, because it is with much broader consequences and significance. Go on. As for the concept of national defence, I think that it is not too much to appreciate what we have done and will continue to do, involving our civil society, trying to get a better understanding of membership in our country, both to bridge the gap between society and the state, and to promote resilience to various hypothetical crises and aggressions. In this respect, the protection of the comprehensive state as well as the training of national defence are a priority for us. Yesterday I had the honour to reward myself if I don't be mistaken about some 13 schools that have been carrying out national defence training for more than two years. A very positive project, a very ambitious project, because we need to be able to prepare the instructors in good time who will be able to provide this training professionally in schools, because, as you know, from 2024, this training will be mandatory for two years in all our schools. We can only overcome this challenge if we understand together how important it is and how positive it could be in general not only for our protection but also for our civil society's understanding of patriotism and how we can also help our fellow people on a daily basis who are in many other civil society... in smaller crises, perhaps with an accident or something else. I had conversations with these teachers, and I have to say that there was no school to say that this protection lesson would not have improved both content learning, as well as student relationships and the environment in these schools as a whole. So that - quite ambitious, but at the same time very important project, which is very important for us from a military point of view, because when we are a small country, we can show that we are capable of protecting ourselves not only with the will, but with the ability to protect one of us, and thus deter any of the attacks... Only if we see that the whole society is ready to defend its country with the National Armed Forces of Latvia. From this point of view, in the past centuries - in the 20th century, in the 19th century - there was often a mandatory designation. But, as we saw, when we analysed the situation in those countries where it still exists, it is very rarely a mandatory and general designation. In countries such as Lithuania or Sweden, this mandatory designation actually means a maximum of 10 percent, usually - 5 percent of the population. This means that 90-95 per cent is not completely prepared for nothing and is not prepared for any crisis. I think that when we fully introduce national defence training into Latvian schools, we will be a good example for many other small and small countries... and maybe - not just... with some individual parts... because we will be able to prepare literally 100 per cent of our young people through the education system on security, political, historical, military issues. In addition, taking into account the size of our country, we need to increase the number of troops of the armed forces; we need to have more volunteers in the Latvian Earthguard. We believe and, according to our estimates, we also very much hope that when this country's defence lesson is implemented in our schools, there will also be many more volunteers to take part in the Earth watch, and there will also be many more people who will want to link their work with the armed forces in a purely professional way. This means that in the "non-violent" way, without excluding people from their daily work, from the priorities, from the dreams that they want to achieve in their lives, we will be able to achieve the goal that we need - a society that is prepared; a society that is ready to defend its country when it is needed and an educated society in military aspects as well. I think I will not take you any longer when it comes to the importance and substance of the National Defence concept. Everyone had an opportunity to get acquainted with the document. We have also had many meetings with public participation across the whole territory of Latvia. This is the time when, of course, Members are obliged to... and if there is a wish - also to express your opinion, but... This is the time to support this concept every four years. I call on you to support this and call for further cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the armed forces. By the way, a number of you have also received an invitation to the Open Door Day organized by our 1st Brigade of Riga, because now, when we are talking, our current military training - Riga defence training is taking place. This Sunday is an open door day in Zaķusala. Welcome to participate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U29	Thank you to the Minister for Defence. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U30	Hello, dear colleagues! Yes, there was some debate in the Commission on this document - not so much about the basic arrangements that we all support, of course, but about certain individual wordings that were, to put it mildly, quite dubious at some point. And I will give you one example here. The section on international cooperation in this document states that when demonstrating solidarity with Georgia and Ukraine without recognising the occupation of their territories, Latvia will continue to support the efforts of these countries to recover the occupied territories by negotiation. Well, we know that Ukraine... The Ukrainian army is doing this with weapons in its hands, so - on a military route. Well, do we not support this? I think we support this, and obviously this wording in this document too... it would have been better to use another, more successful... I also encouraged it at the committee meeting. Unfortunately, in view of the fact that it is necessary to actually open the whole document, to change the current procedure in which it is directed (i.e. - from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Saeima, without any change in fact), the Commission adopted a decision - because of these few words (although there were still other suggestions) not to do so, to leave it as it is. I believe that this is wrong and that this procedure is that this document is simply approved by the Saeima every four years without change without any correction... I think that this order should be changed in the future. But now I am calling for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U31	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U32	Mr President-in-Office of the Saeima, welcome. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, present! When comparing this National Defence concept with the 2016 concept, I appreciate the fact that the important role in national defence has been assigned to the education and education of young people and non-governmental organisations. These subjects are covered by whole chapters, and given that these subjects are close to me, I would like to say a few things. The concept says that education and training of young people plays an important role in shaping future society in Latvia. In the concept, the main emphasis is on the development of the youth movement and the introduction of state defence training at educational institutions in Latvia. But I call on you not to forget the country's existing tasks. There are underfunded youth policy in Latvia and the resulting measures. This policy needs to be strengthened significantly, as its results are important for young people and for the state. In the area of civic education, which is also introduced through the school2030 entry, there is little material on the participation of young people in the fields of democracy, human rights and social responsibility. Investment is needed to develop and make available such materials in schools, youth organisations and youth centres in municipalities. The guidelines for the development of children, young people and the family are now also being developed for the coming period. Youth policy must show itself seriously in this programming document, and I hope that, together, we will succeed in achieving this. In the concept, a whole chapter is devoted to non-governmental organisations. It states that citizens' mutual trust and trust in public administration are particularly important for national security and development. In the event of a crisis, trust between society and public administration is particularly necessary in order to be able to tackle threats jointly. In this context, non-governmental organisations, which should be involved in the defence planning process, have an important role to play. The concept states that the role of non-governmental organisations in peacetime is to educate citizens and acquire practical skills, as well as to inform the public about actions in crisis situations. The role of non-governmental organisations is essential, as research shows that non-governmental organisations trust much more than the main public administrations. And to strengthen the activities of these NGOs, it is necessary to regularly... create mechanisms and support tools on a daily basis to enable NGOs to strengthen their capacity and activities. I would very much like this good assessment of the NGOs mentioned in the document to remain only declaratory. Significant support for associations and foundations should also be provided in the new programming of the Structural Funds. It is necessary to become a history that we record declaratory norms in the decisions of the Saeima and then do not introduce support tools! In conclusion, I would like to talk about what we can do on a daily basis. This concept also states that voluntary involvement in the protection of their country should be promoted in society, so that such civil action can be widespread and respected. The concept places a great emphasis on the involvement of the Earth in the watchdog, but I would call for a much broader approach to this issue. Engaging in state defence is also involved in volunteering activities in their community, city, district and school, it is also involved in non-governmental organizations, public benefit activities, as well as blood donation. Already today, we are calling on everyone to respond to the call of the National Blooddonor Centre to donate blood, because there is a critical shortage in certain groups. As the Minister said, a plan will also be drawn up on the basis of this concept... and civil protection plans will also be developed in municipalities. I call on the Ministry to continue its cooperation with partners and non-governmental organisations and to encourage them to do so also in local governments. May the concept be put into practice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U33	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U34	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Of course, this is very important: to approve the concept of national defence today. However, I would like to draw attention to some factors, negative developments, which actually threaten the national security of our country. First. As in previous instances... I have mentioned this uneven development many times. This particularly affects the eastern border. What does patriotism mean when there is this difference in living standards... Three four times... by comparison with the capital, let us say? Patriotism - that is, when the state provides a balanced development, an opportunity for every citizen, a citizen to receive services in full. In many countries... In developed countries, it is the border area, especially if it is the territory of the European Union, that is particularly developed. There are different types of privileges, even the standard of living is often higher than in another place... in the territories of those States. We have absolutely the opposite... Minister, I would ask you, however, to listen instead of talking. Mr. Pabrika, I'm talking... I'm talking for you, too. Go on. The second factor. I've already mentioned that the eastern border is the Ludza side, the Zilupe side... 30-40 percent of territory, land, forests belong to Latvian non-citizens, foreign companies – other countries. Where is the guarantee that these areas cannot be put in the hands of totally aggressive countries, firms or citizens? There is no guarantee at present. Third. This border area - I am thinking here of the eastern border area - must be completely perfectly equipped with communications, the Internet, infrastructure, roads, everything else. This was to be reflected in the National Development Plan and was to be reflected in the next programming period, in negotiations with the European Commission, in the European Structural Funds absorption section. Is that so? None. I support this concept, but I would ask you to take into account... take account of what I have said, both when drawing up plans and when working on the budget for this year's budget for next year's budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U35	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! I request the registration of the presence of Members. Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U36	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Dūklavs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Andrejs Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Māris Kučinskis, Atis Lejiņš. A. Lejiņš: “Atis Lejiņš is here!” )... Lejiņš is, Linda Liepiņa, Ralph Nemiro, Evija Papule (Dep. E. Papule: “I am!” )... Evija Papule is, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Arthur Rubiks, Karina Sprūde, Jānis Urbanovičs... Karina Sprude... Yes, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivars Zarins (Dep. I. Zariņš: “What’s wrong? Here it is!” )... There's a wand.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U37	Thank you. Interruption until 2 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U38	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the National Defence Concept. ( The Room Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) We've started the Saeima sitting. We don't bother you, colleagues, chatter? We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U39	Dear Saeima! Looking at 2020... The concept of national defence seems to have reached such a strange reality. Already some 9 or 10 years ago, the National Association came up with various initiatives, including two percentage points of defence funding (at that time there was less than one percentage point). When, almost 10 years ago, we stressed the need to establish close cooperation with other allies in order to reduce the likelihood that Russian aggression could take place here in the Baltic States, many have enticed and talked about the need to build a bridge between the West and the East. When it was said that the school should build patriotic education and military training, some said: “Calls, are you crazy?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Why do you want to prepare children and young people for war? We have to live in a beautiful, friendly future.” When it was said that the Earthguard should strengthen its defence capabilities, that the Earthguards should be allowed to hold weapons at home more widely, many colleagues said: “Do you want to return to the nineties when shooting each other?” When it was talked about the security of the information space... About 10 years ago, when it was talked about Russian propaganda that influenced the minds of Latvian people, it was said: “What do you want to attack freedom of speech and expression?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ And other colleagues did not want to listen to any discussion at the time so that the country could approach various technical reserves, such as fuel reserves, more strategically. When the letters were sent to the Cabinet of Ministers: “Please keep the fuel reserves right here in Latvia, in physical form!” Then many colleagues shouted: “For what? We have agreements that in an emergency fuel will be delivered from Lithuania, Europe and other parts of the world!” The reality is different at the moment, and there are many things that the National Association talked about and joined several years ago; thanks to both previous ministers Raimonds Vējonis and Raimonds Bergmans, as well as existing ministers, these initiatives have been put in place. And there will certainly be other initiatives of the National Alliance in the coming years... what we have emphasised in strengthening national defence capabilities, that they will be implemented regardless of what is currently the opinion of many. For example, we need to understand in the near future what the response of Latvia will be to various security challenges related to technological development. At a time when not only false news will appear, but the deep fake video, which is computer projects, perfectly designed to imitate the human voice and appearance... where can give specific instructions, making these stories from abroad... What will be Latvia's response to it? Also, if it is said that we have to do it, you could say, asymmetrical damage to any enemy who wants to potentially invade Latvia, then we will definitely have to talk about the wider right to hold weapons at home and different arms categories. If we talk that we need well-prepared citizens of our country, then we will return to the debate on compulsory military service. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmits is applauding.) If we are talking about further development of national security, it will certainly not be able to get rid of robotisation. In the future, every modern army is likely to be based on robotised units that will be able to ensure national security. I am calling today for support for the State Defence concept and for a further step in order to make our country stronger and stronger.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U40	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U41	Dear colleagues, Jānis Dombrava has already mentioned in one sentence the reason why I've climbed here today in the mall. If we... And I hope that we are doing this: we are taking very seriously national defence plans and concepts. In my opinion, we are approaching a point where we will have to recognise the obvious lack of capacity, namely the lack of compulsory service. In the region, we are the only country without a mandatory service. I am referring to comparable countries - Estonia, Lithuania, Finland, for example. One of them has maintained a compulsory military service at all times, which has been restored. We're unique. Sometimes when you're unique, it doesn't mean you're the smartest. This may mean that you have done something wrong. I'm not going to talk a long time about why a professional army, if we wanted a full scale, one that could protect the territory of Latvia with reserves, is not possible in such a small country as Latvia, because that would mean that one third of the nations should be permanently present in a professional military service; it is, of course, not theoretically possible. Our complaint about a mandatory service is also objectively justified. I mean, it's not even important why, but... the mandatory service that we set up in the early 1990s... Of course, that would not be what we should do today. Unfortunately, at that time, we took over all the worst traditions from the Soviet army, starting with non-regulatory relations and ending with relations between soldiers and officers. It was not without reason that it ended with a huge student protest at the Freedom Monument and the abolition of this service. But that does not mean that an army needs to be like this. I'm... When the government decided in 1995 to transform the Security Service into a military police, I had the honour and opportunity to be a Danish army for military police training in the part of Alborg, which had several mandatory service combat units, and to see what is normal today... a modern mandatory service. It is not just to run and shoot; it is mostly intellectual training - foreign language training, cartography training, philosophy training, mathematical logic training. Today, those who have gone out of the mandatory services of the Danish army show far better results in the Academies of Higher Education than those who have not gone out of it. I'm a little bit more about Denmark. I do not believe that this is the ideal model. Mandatory service models vary from country to country as well. Different in Finland, different in Estonia, different in Lithuania and different in Denmark. But the example of Denmark is a very good example... with their difference... where the results of the mandatory service can be assessed. In fact, in Denmark they do not call everyone in the service - they call about a third, counting as much as they need. And what happens when this third is called? When they reach the age of 18, every Danish citizen pulls out a lot - whether or not he has to go to the army. This lot varies according to the number of volunteers who apply in the army. The last Danish name in the army... It's 98 percent... voluntary. Why? Because it's not just a military strategic result. In particular, building a nation reserve for the threat - it has long become an education instrument of the nation. Today Danish entrepreneurs who want to take on new shots in their work... The first thing they sort out is whether they were in the army or not. Priority is given to all who have been. They have not only played guitar and plastered the grass, but have learned to defend their country: at the beginning - to submit to the teams, at the end - to provide the teams. That is what we in Latvia should also do. And there is another important defence foundation in Latvia, which is why the mandatory service is crucial. Security begins with internal security in the country. I think if we had a situation that for a year... Well, don't need two... year, maybe less than a year like in Denmark, 11 months... If Latvian citizens, young people, children of different ethnic backgrounds, different ages and political beliefs together went through an obstacle zone, lived together in the woods for a month, then the possibility that one day they turn arms against each other at an hour X, I think would be reduced to zero. General national defence strategy... The name already leads us in this direction. I hope that, sooner than later, we will take this decision... and don't spend money in the interim where it shouldn't be spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U42	Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U43	Good afternoon, colleagues! This time, as a Member, I will touch a little on this topic. What makes me perhaps more careful. Also about what is included in the concept and makes us wonder whether we are able to help and implement the concept. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was recently in Latgale. We were at the border and we talked and discussed the situation at the border. And... If the concept here is black on white, it is written that the common early warning system needs to integrate the national border guard systems and the external border infrastructure of the country, then we have to think very seriously about this, because we have now stopped working on both our external... The external borders of the European Union... on the part of our country... with the Russian Federation... and nothing is happening at present on the 179-kilometre border with Belarus. Now those Members who were there were able to see what the border looks like at the moment. And that is not exactly the limit of the 21st century. And so that we can realise this concept and that our country really is sufficiently secure and responsible for what we are doing, let us remember... We very often mention Article 5 of the Washington Treaty. But there is also verse 3! It says that every country must assume its responsibility and strengthen its armed forces and its security. That is the duty of all of us. Therefore, I think we should pay attention to this and help solve these problems. And that's how... integrating... and building what... Mr Schmidt also said that the comprehensive state defence system in our country... where each institution will know what it needs to do in a crisis situation. This does not necessarily mean that it is a military crisis. Another word like that... One word that makes me, since I was in the position of Minister for Defence in the past, think about it. It was also very difficult for me to look at the Earthguards in the eyes and say that once again they have to endure because it was in 2016 Warsaw... NATO Summit's decision to deploy our allies, which again made us... internally in the defence budget, not in addition, for example in Lithuania or Estonia, where the government provided additional funds to organise the admission of our allies. We did it internally from our resources. Its amount is absolutely identical. Almost the same as was spent in Lithuania or Estonia. Make sure it's the sum of our inner... What we could have... which would probably also have been for the development of the military... Now there's one such word here... It is said here that there is a gradual improvement in the infrastructure of the Land Guard Battalions. This infrastructure really needs to be improved. I understand, of course, this word - 'phasing', but... Indeed, there is a need to help and stimulate in some way what we felt in 2014, when our earthguard lines were exchanged with young, patriotic people who love this land in a very short time. And that's why... They would also like to serve in modern conditions because... I will not let me lie, Mr Pabrik knows very well what some of the earthguard's battalion infrastructure is. I guess it's better not to get out here about it... Hence, there is a real need for much thought and attention to be paid to that word, perhaps so as not to be too good. I would also like to add to this education for young people, which is really very important. I really agree with Mr. Schmit that in this way we will raise Latvia's new generation, which will be much, much more competitive. I absolutely agree with that, I could say that! And this must now be done in this new content of training based on competences. And today we will talk about one bill in which we really want to implement it. And in conclusion... I would like to conclude this short debate on the concept of national defence with one sentence from a concept that perhaps really... Listen to everyone now: “Sustainable development of Latvia is not possible without national defence and sustainability.” Let us, then, do our utmost to keep it like this - always protected and safe! And I also call for support for this concept of national defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U44	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U45	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, I read your political programming document carefully and can conclude that there is much to say about the so-called soft power. But protection is, in my opinion, first of all "hard power" - it's a technique, it's a human being. And in this section, in my opinion, three times in Latvia missed the opportunity to be even average... Eastern European countries. For the first time, we missed it in 1992, when Latvia... How exactly?... The Baltic States... did not participate in the military division of the USSR. Why did I highlight this issue now? Because the Ukrainian army, which quite successfully resisted its opponents in the East, is based however on Soviet products, on Soviet techniques. At the same time, Ukraine itself is modernising and developing tanks, armaments, missiles and so on, and it is still. All this is based on the country's factories, which Ukraine maintained. Latvia would now have an opportunity to both modernise and maybe produce armoured machinery itself, because we had a tank repair plant, we had an arsenal plant, aviation repair plants and so on. All these factories were demolished in the 1990s, privileged. Now it's about people. Already in the beginning of the two thousand years there was a campaign against those Latvian officers who graduated from the Soviet Union of the Warfare - they were declared undesirable in NATO and were gradually expelled from the armed forces. Now they don't. But if we look back at Ukraine... You see for yourself that the Ukrainian generals, Colonels... they're all 50 years old... Let's say that generation... they finished the Soviet military schools... and successfully fought at times in Donbass with their classmates. What am I talking about? I am talking about a lack of trust. Lacks self - confidence. And this is also reflected in the house 2020 manoeuvres, which are now happening anywhere else than in Purvciems. Our bedroom is driven by military guards, quadricycles. It looks pretty funny and pathetic. In my opinion, the landguards now need to expand their forces somewhere in regions where there is not even a state or a local police force to combat poaching hunters, smugglers and crime. I will not vote in favour of your concept today, Minister. I think you should carefully assess the fact that Latvia should not wait five years when we will be ready for a potential conflict. No one will give us this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U46	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of the National Defence Concept! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. I also thank the Minister for his clarification of this concept and for the debate in the Saeima. ( Minister of Defence Pabriks: “Thank you! ” ) Dear colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has today asked to review the draft law “Amendments to the Covid–19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” at first reading. After the roll of order, we cannot supplement the agenda for the extraordinary sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Stop a normal sitting!” ) The Saeima Bureau has therefore decided to declare a break during which we will continue our work, and today we will announce the second extraordinary meeting, which will consider both the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicableity Management” and the request to the Commission by the Minister of Transport will be submitted to it. Do Members object to the adversarial of the adversarial? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Please call us! Please register the Members. Name for Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U47	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Jānis Adamsons, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Armands Krauze, Ralfs Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Dana Reizniece–Ozola, Arthur Rubiks and Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U48	Thank you. So after five minutes, we started the second extraordinary session of the Saeima on 24 September 2020. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U49	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We will continue to examine the agenda for the first extraordinary meeting of 24 September this year! On the agenda - draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2020”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U50	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, At its meeting of 17 September 2020, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima examined and supported the issue of the Saeima’s consent to the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law on the State Budget for 2020. This issue concerns the provision of funding for higher education educators, and it concerns the raising of the minimum wage for educators' pay schedule as of 1 September 2020. The total amount is EUR 383 777 and is divided into six programmes in different ministries. Colleagues, please - to support you. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has supported this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U51	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U52	Madam President, Colleagues! I already understand that money doesn't grow in trees. In those trees of happiness that were made, I hope... or probably there will be no money in trees. It won't help. And yet. There are no boundaries between the Government's Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, I have to conclude this again and again. At one time, the promise of a wage supplement from confiscation of the proceeds of crime seemed unethical to the educators. Now that the political course on this issue has changed rapidly and last year's promises that no dirty euro will go through the Latvian banks have already been forgotten, including teachers... lifting tools appear to have been searched elsewhere and found to be. Again subtracting a high-quality meal from primary school for children. ( Milestones.) The teachers will have the opportunity to afford more, but the children will eat. — Dep. A. Muižniece’s intermediate names.) less. Or less quality. ( Milestones.) It is so literally with this proposal that the redistributive of resources and the cynical, recently popular expression must be understood (Sitting Manager knocks out with a hammer.) - any means to find someone to take them away. ( Milestones.) Come and talk, and don't get out of the way. During the preparation process of the budget for the year 2020 it was accepted for students of Class 1-4 to finance their holidays from the state budget by 50 percent less or half cheaper. I would like to remind you that family state policy begins with the state's attitude. It is not wise to think about family support, about an increase in birth rate, if this is the case. There is no complex vision in Latvia that every child of Latvia should be provided with social conditions that allow him to grow, develop his skills and talents at the maximum possible level. Also, competences - no. In Latvia, most officials and politicians like mediocre and everything is done so that people do not like living in this country and that individual struggle with social problems would be the basis of life. Children’s Holidays (Independence.) ... I didn't ask for treatment... Children's Holiday is a attitude with a... and the issue of public well-being. Covid-19 time showed that there were municipalities that thought how to lighten the strained everyday life of families, and of course there were also those that did not take full care of it. It is therefore absolutely clear, by deducting funding for children and families, that there will be children who will receive inadequate nutrition, especially from dry bags. By the way, this tiny wage supplement for a few months at the expense of children is likely to serve as a painful reminder of the Minister's cynical attitude towards the sector. And no matter what sources you'd be talking about, in any case, four months... four months increase... I hope that this will also be reflected in the next budget. I'm glad I'll give you an opportunity at last to discuss the salaries of the teacher from the platform. I very much hope that in the next budget, teachers have not only been placed in a minimum schedule for raising teachers' pay, but have been placed in a significant way... promotion of this profession, otherwise it is difficult to talk about the country's growth. Similarly, in support of family policy - I hope that there will be a significant increase, not just in the negotiations that do not show you in the discussions today about the people who live here. I very much hope that you will respond better than I have spoken today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U53	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U54	Hello, dear colleagues! So this money is redistributed from the holiday money that has been left over. And this is what we have every year. Every year, several municipalities - mostly municipalities - have more than this holiday money, and then it is redistributed each year for other purposes. Most every year, of course... I'm sure... stays over Riga, only the problem is that Riga sometimes does not use its money for children's holidays, nor takes it back to the state budget. Where the money remains - it could be demanded by the current ruling coalition of Riga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U55	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U56	Colleagues, for my part, I support the objective for which the funds are allocated, but I also cannot support this reallocation precisely because the source is very bad. The source this year is the children's holiday or savings in this programme. There's a special situation this year. In previous years, the state fully covered the children's holiday class 1-4 with its own money, but this year is the year when you, honourable coalition colleagues, voted for the municipalities to cover half of the cost of lunch. And in such a situation, it is not right that the funds that are left over simply be taken away from children's holiday funding and redistributed for other needs, even if they are teachers' salaries. 19 million is the funding that you put on the municipal shoulders. If the funds are saved, they should be left to children's holidays, either by providing a larger number of children who have the opportunity to eat on holiday or by improving quality by slightly increasing the amount of money they spend on lunch - 1.42 euros, agree, is a relatively low amount to provide children not only with delicious food but also with healthy food in schools. The other thing, colleagues, is the form. This funding was needed from 1 September. We are today on 24 September. Are you saying that this is a normal situation? Not only at the beginning of the year do teachers not yet know whether they will have or will not have a minimum rate increase, but on the afternoon of September 24, it is not clear whether this money will be there. So think about the form, the signal you give to those working in education, if even a month after they have worked, they don't yet know whether they'll get a decent salary or not.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U57	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U58	Madam President, Well, you were sad. Where the Ministry of Education and Science answers, others are guilty again, not you yourself. If any meaningful proposal... but one would have come, then it would have been: if there's any surplus, let me raise the price. 1.42 EUR - the total funding for food? Allow these products to be used in order to improve the quality of food for children, which is currently also in dry form. Have you seen photographs that are offered or offered to children today as a holiday? Doubt. So let this money be used for the purpose and find teachers worthy of at least... other sources, so that it is not at the expense of children. Because - I repeat: university teachers are unlikely to feel comfortable if they find out the source from which this extra money has been taken to put them EUR 50. Mr Znotiņš, maybe come and tell me where you will find the money in next year's budget for the same university teachers to increase money again for nothing of EUR 50. Welcome!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U59	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U60	Dear colleagues, During the Covid-19 crisis, the National Association also fought for the maintenance of the normal amount of the holiday for children. All children, regardless of status - a multi-child family or low income. They failed, and we also tried to fight for the same from the opposition, but unfortunately the coalition voted 'no' every time we put forward these proposals. We gave them several times, because you also forgot about children with disabilities and other people... children from other families... not only large families or underprivileged persons. Now it's really very cynical to see what you've offered. So the savings that have been made, among other things, at the expense of children with disabilities, are now being passed on so that you simply cover them with your perhaps incorrect calculations now. That is not right. Mr. Znotins, I too would like to understand... to know where the temporary administration of Riga has put this money, which was intended for all children, not only for families of large children or low income persons. The temporary administration started operating during the Covid-19 and during the Covid-19 they were fully responsible for feeding their children. And they didn't. So, please ask your coalition colleagues, ask yourself, too, what has been there, where the money is left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U61	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U62	During the Covid-19, Riga was one of those cities that lacked political leadership, and hopefully it will finally be there as soon as possible. But when you talk about this kind of countersetting... This very strange trend is emerging, because this question of children's weekends - that it gives money to teachers' salaries from weekends - is in a way against a group of society. The same is happening at the moment in the area of health. The Minister for Health is calmly ready to negotiate with the trade unions of health workers by offering a compromise - we will cut your share to increase health services for citizens. I think that such an approach is really wrong and it is not good. It also shows, in a way, some kind of policy that is currently in place. Last year's budget... There were very many Members... And today, too, the same Members who talk about the importance and importance of children's weekends are on the table in principle... and that if something is saved in this area... EUR 1.42 Unfortunately, this sector also has only EUR 1.42 in the next year's budget. And that is, Mr Bondara, in the area of responsibility of your political parties, for having only EUR 1.42 left. The Ministry of Health had to come up with a proposal that there would really be a healthy diet, that the diet would be available and that suppliers would also be able to provide it. In this case, to the government in some way... Signals were sent to us, the opposition, from these catering companies, with an invitation to review... I am sure that many of you also have these signals - letters from organisations to review these 1.42 euro. Instead of reviewing the EUR 1.42, the source is being shifted calmly and essentially not being searched for. But... who is embarrassing me in this debate - that less and less, there are ever fewer Members in the Saeima who really care about having a holiday for children to ensure that they are of high quality. If the budget negotiations last year were... Both Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Evija Papule spoke, Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems also performed, but Aldis Gobzems is silent today. And then the question is, why is that? ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ) Has anything changed? Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for these two sectors not to be set aside.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U63	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U64	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Members! Now this is the moment that once again I don't understand anything about what that is. Now from the weekend we fought for... The money goes away from the weekend, and now the teachers' salaries, for which we fought, too, will be added. Well, I really don't know how to vote now. Then we look at what happens to those weekends at school and what their parents write, and there are things like that... Let's assume if my child, who, thank God, has already finished school and who has no horror to survive... there the directions in the corridors, how to walk; when you may leave class when you must not... So I wish you endurance to those parents whose children are studying at school right now. For let's tell you how dinner is served in some schools. I assume you too are being written by voters. There's one school where frozen lunch packs... And there's nothing funny about it, because there are kids who also... parents and children who are waiting for these lunches for financial reasons. So imagine, try to visualize that view – frozen lunch packs are placed at the door of the class. I don't know how for you, it reminds me of a story from a movie about prison life or something like that. What we're slow about... we - no, we - no, but the Ministry of Education and Science is hand in hand with the Health Ministers and all these genius experts who now know better how to lead the country, how to live. Well, it's led to that. I would like to say a great deal of thanks to the Sigulda School. Sigulda is now, of course, the best example of its information available to me, where the director has tried not to be confused. I wish him luck and endurance! Keep going! But, well, this, I think, is a story about some 300 thousand if I understand correctly. Please fix it if I'm not right. And now those 300 thousand... When we talk about a number as big as 300 thousand, about as much money as 300 thousand, I remember, there's some seven studies... I think there were different researches, where now everyone researches it Covid-19. Seven studies, each close to half a million. Those who are able to count are calculated to be, well, not 300 thousand, but about three and a half million. Investigating Covid-19. Okay! Investigating Covid-19. Researched then also what will happen to those children who receive their frozen lunch today in their boxes at the door. How... What will they grow up for? Will there be any injury, will there be no injury? Other, maybe... There are children who will not be... but now he refuses to go to school because, well, we know there are things like claustrophobia. When the child is told, “You can’t leave the class!” Imagine if we kept you here! No, Gaidan normally sits in it, it's normal character. To this... That's what you're capable of... More than that (not clear.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U65	Mrs. Liepaja, I am calling for this to happen without personal attack. Please talk about the specific draft decision - “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2020””!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U66	Yeah, yeah, I just... I just... Yeah, well, you can... There are people who personally are absolutely zero to me. That's exactly what... You can turn off my microphone, yeah. If it's just the masks you're sitting in... Of course, the budget money has also been bought, and you yourself have not... And ARS, for example, sells for 70 cents...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U67	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Liepiņa. If you don't talk about the subject... Then don't... Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U68	Yeah... So when those students are placing their frozen lunch at the door, you ask the question: who will grow there, who will grow there? Then you'll think that Sandis Riekstins is the intelligence giant at all. That is absolutely clear. And Shuplinsk will be, I think, the cavalier of the Order of Three Stars. Intelligent...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U69	Mr Gobzem, I call on you to speak on the specific subject, on the specific draft decision!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U70	Mrs. Moore! Covid-19 time...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U71	Do not attack Members personally, but talk about the specific draft decision...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U72	Yeah, so listen!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U73	... “On consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2020”.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U74	Mrs. Moore, so listen to the end! You stop me all the time, let me talk!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U75	I told you once. If you attack Members personally and speak personally offensively, you will be behind... the name has been taken. Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U76	Mrs. Moorier... Mrs. Moore, don't stop me all the time! Try to listen!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U77	The Saeima... to the Chair of the sitting (Interview point.) there is also an obligation to terminate a Member if it deviates from the topic if statements incompatible with the respect of the Saeima are used.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U78	Yeah. Action incompatible with Saeima's dignity, voting for taking away the holiday for schoolchildren, Mrs. Mūrniece! The Saeima has no respect in Latvian society! In Latvian society, the Saeima is lower than the land. And it's lower than the ground, not because Gobzem is in the tributary, but because you, coalition... The only achievement that can be made is not to give free lunch to schoolchildren, Mrs Mūrniece, but your party, the National Association, the only one, can have tapes. That is the only reason why society does not respect this Parliament. And so listen to the end!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U79	Thank you. Please turn off the microphone for Member Gobzem! Thank you. He's got a name. Thank you to Mr Gobzem for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U80	Don't be afraid to hear what I'm gonna say about that thing. And don't be ashamed of your works... Latvian society...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U81	Technical break: five minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U82	Colleagues, keep sitting. We are continuing the debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U83	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! I share the views of those Members who, earlier on, from this troupe, said that this reallocation of appropriations is immoral in some way, because from one source that needs funds is redeployed to another source, to another area that needs them equally. I would even say that it is even more necessary. I will say it immediately: I will vote in favour of this appropriation for two reasons. And those two reasons are as follows: First. We're... We already have the 20th of September. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts. law is due. So far, the government has not found this money. Here, although, in my view, not from its most correct source, these funds have been found and, believe me, university teachers and even more university managers, who have to provide these funds, are waiting for them. The second reason is that these funds have been expected for a very long time. And in this area, it is necessary, in essence, for ice to suffocate, because we provided the means to raise the salaries of upper secondary education educators, but the salary of higher education educators was postponed at that time. This is the time to start working on this issue as well. These are two reasons why, as I said, I will vote in favour. But, as I said earlier, I think, when I think of sources, it is important to think about what is being taken from so that there is no such discussion as we have heard today. Those who spoke against... I understand very well why they spoke against, and I also think that... That's... The amount that is currently being financed on a holiday for one child, the EUR 1.42 mentioned above, which is not the right size given the size of prices in the economy. Only we have to keep in mind one more thing: if we build on the country's side, then automatically the other side... the other half of the funding comes from the municipality. Perhaps municipalities could have some problems with financing this second side (as much as it is) because the law says that as much as the state gives it, the municipality must be equally opposed. The law is now formulated in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U84	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U85	Take away the children's holiday - it's a real patriotism. A true patriotism in the spirit of the National Alliance. It's a realer patriotism than with tapes to wake up - George, the red-red--privileged, pastels or something else, but directly to take away the children's holiday! Nothing more patriotic than that can be done by the National Association. This happens in the year when Latvia is born within 100 years of birth to the smallest. And you have that cooperation agreement with the New Conservative Party that actually leads this issue, because it is also conservative: to take away the holiday for children. It is both patriotic and conservative. And that's the way we understand it, because last week we voted for tapes. It's okay in the country. Today we're taking off the weekend. A little remark. At the beginning of the previous speech, I complimented that our students, who are deprived of their holidays, would be so smart, so beautiful, as excellent Members as Mr Riekstin. I complimented you. I was off the microphone for this. I was excluded from the microphone that I mentioned George's tape as a patriotism at the time when children were taken off their holidays. Then a technical break was announced, and Mrs Mūrniece talked about...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U86	Thank you. Consequently, the exchange of comments or thoughts on instructions for the conduct of a hearing should not be allowed. Please turn off the microphone for Member Gobzem. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U87	On the one hand, theoretically, of course, if there are funds left over in a programme, including in a sensibly redistributed area about the same... where it is necessary - is this redistribution the most appropriate? I don't know, I'm not going to be competent in this matter. But... But philosophically the fact that we had more money in the children's holiday grant means just one thing that we also warned about when this funding was removed... public funding to municipalities - that it will destroy this (only those who are engulfed... at the time) catering policy in schools that have a direct link not only with healthy food but also with increasing the intellectual capacity of people. The fact that we have left over money shows this very clearly, because if this programme were to continue in the way it should have been, we would not have enough money. I don't remember the exact number - it's a pity that Jānis Dūklavs is not! - but at the time, the Ministry of Agriculture calculated what is the amount of 1.42 euros instead of where the opportunity appears, the minimum threshold, to buy a healthy, Latvian-made... Even perhaps not always biological, but food and create a balanced menu. If I remember correctly, it was 2.30 euros. We should have had 90 cents every lunch, not taken away. And here's the thing that we're very often talking about some kind of template. This morning we talked about the concept of protection. Now that's a new concept that... Especially the Minister is carrying it... That is, comprehensive national protection - now that everyone is involved in national defence, in other words, Finland's national defence strategy. At the same time, we pretend to do so without a compulsory service. We often say - the Finnish education system; fantastic results over the last 20 years; something should be done in that case. One of the simplest things they do is this food policy. But we're ruining it. Sometime we will come back to it, and sometime we will be forced to make the right decisions. Just one more time - it is a pity that we continue to live in templates. Let us be a Nordic country, let us not know anything else, but just as we get to real implementation, so we are more than a Eastern country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U88	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U89	Regarding the food and the quality of children... and, as the case may be, the objectives of the law, and what it wants to achieve by the adoption of a law or by reallocation of any financing. If the aim of redistributing funds is to support educators, it is noble. But if the aim is not to provide quality food for children (and where the categories of children who receive their meals were also reduced before), then it also has an impact on the child's intellectual, physical and emotional development. So I think this two-- this time... in this case, with this appropriation - setting up is a very dubious quality initiative and is not aimed at children's development and a high quality... the development of intellectual potential in universities and schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U90	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U91	Hello, dear colleagues! I remember some time ago (and they were one of my first debates in this troupe) I said that I was rather surprised at how the opposition successfully turned the stories, trying to cook some delicious soup, there to make everything possible inside. And now again, I think we are in a similar situation. When the government plans the budget, plans the money and, assuming, predicting something that has no cover, then the opposition runs and says: “No, you can’t do this because there is no cover.” At the moment when the government finds the funds, the remaining ones! - instead of taking something off, Mr. Gobzem, then again the opposition runs and says, “No, no, no, so you can’t do it!” But children are sick, there are children who have not gone to school, and so on - and these savings arise. And I really support this re-allocation of today's decision to university teachers. We can talk about... Everyone has their own morals, ethics and similar considerations... But what is not absolutely permissible is to come here on the platform, first of all to disinform all these people who listen, to tell them that someone takes away something, to tell them that someone does not respect Parliament, because you yourself - those who are getting out of the trunk, Gobzem and Liepaja, who have gone out of time (Applause.) - You're placing everything that's been built here for a hundred years. And that is not acceptable, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U92	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U93	Colleagues! I have a response to Mrs Muižniece. I understand that there are savings. Yeah, you told me the kids hadn't gone to school, they've been sick. But, colleagues, you remember very well how we, the opposition, fought for children's holidays during the Covid-19. And you just sat down and listened to the truth, that really all children are not being brought on this holiday. Why? That's why! And so it's not really that you made this decision during the Covid-19, knowing that you have to save these funds because you have to cover the salaries of the educators. I don't want to think so, colleagues! I don't want to think so, but now it looks like that. If we talk about the respect of the Saeima, then the respect of the Saeima cannot be improved by making such decisions, making laws that you cannot enforce and do not want to enforce. Here you can speak beautifully from the platform, you can speak not too beautiful, but it does not affect the respect of the Saeima. The Saeima's respect is what the Saeima does to people there outside. And that's respect... it is incompatible with the respect of the Saeima... exactly what the Saeima is doing at the moment, not what is happening here in Parliament. No one is watching these sittings, colleagues. You can be calm. Nobody's looking at it. Everyone just suffers from what the Saeima has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U94	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U95	It's about cooking soup. Soup ingredients are chosen and their recipe is chosen by the position or, in this case, by the Ministry of Education and Science. And how qualitative and healthy, and delicious those ingredients for children are chosen - and for educators - so is the soup. Therefore, we do not need to make claims in the cooking of soups for those who do not cook this soup and who do not put in that soup those ingredients that cost only 1.40 euro. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U96	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U97	Colleagues! Recently, the Ministry of Health had prepared an information report to the government, whose government (I do not know, you will answer yourself for what reasons) did not put it on the agenda. In this information report, the Ministry of Health points out that the desired minimum amount of funding per meal would be EUR 1.89, instead of EUR 1.42. And in a situation where we all understand that, yes, there is always too little money in the budget... But in a situation where we all understand that 1.42 euro is too little to feed children well at school, to say that it is normal that the money is saving, and it is normal that we re-allocate them to the salaries of teachers in September, and it is normal for teachers not yet in September to know how much they will be paid for a month's time - I believe it is simply cynical.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U98	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U99	Colleagues! Colleagues! I must admit that there was no such wide-ranging debate within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. And that's the scope, either. Mr Geidan's mask, for example, was not discussed there, but we have carefully considered some of the arguments that have been raised here. In view of this, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission supported this reallocation of appropriations. I therefore also call on you to support this reallocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U100	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2020”. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, against - 3, refraining - 15. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Members Uldis Augulis, Gundars Dauge, Viktors Valainis, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Jānis Vucāns, Armands Krauze, Linda Liepiņa, Janīna Jalinska, Inga Goldberga, Evija Papule and Raimonds Bergmanis have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “On Compliance with Legal Requirements”. Name for motivation to Member Uldim Planti.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U101	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We made this request last Thursday so that the government, which has declared itself to be a legal and rule-of-law government, would also comply with what the Saeima has adopted in law. But, as we know from experience, the decisions taken by this government are not always binding, even though the Cabinet of Ministers has written "One Law - One Justice for All" above the Prime Minister's Chair. We therefore address this request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš in order to meet the legal requirements. We remind the Prime Minister “on the principles of good governance and their importance, so that the State guarantees everyone the opportunity to exercise their rights and legal interests in respect of the state institution - limiting the use of arbitrary and abusive power by the state administration, as well as ensuring the protection of the public against unlimited expression of state power”. Colleagues! Together, we adopted a Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection on 5 June 2020. The transitional provisions of the law stated: ‘This law shall remain in force as long as there is a threat of epidemiological security in relation to the spread of Covid-19 infection. The Cabinet of Ministers shall, at least every three months, report to the Saeima on the threat of epidemiological security in relation to the spread of Covid-19 infection.’ It is now more than three months. We have not yet received such a report in the Saeima. We therefore invite the Prime Minister to submit a report to the Saeima without delay, to inform the Latvian public about the action regarding Covid-19 spread of infection. Firstly, on restrictions on the rights of individuals. Secondly, on specific conditions for the operation of the judicial system, state and local authorities and the provision of services. Thirdly, on specific conditions for the enforcement of criminal penalties. Fourthly, on specific conditions in the fields of education, culture, entertainment, sport and tourism. Fifthly, on the conditions for providing social and health services. Sixthly, for administrative liability for non-compliance with legal restrictions. Although we expected this report to be presented until this sitting, it has not been tabled. I would also call on the Commission of Petitions to examine this issue with sufficient rigour so that such cases, when the government does not carry out parliamentary tasks, do not happen to us again in the future. And, my fellow Members, I would ask you to support it when you have this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U102	Thank you. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. Time to break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U103	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Dūklavs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Andrejs Klementjevs... Yes, Armands Krauze, Maris Kučinskis, Linda Liepiņa (Dep. L. Liepiņa: “I am!” )... There, Ralph Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča and Arthur Rubik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U104	Thank you. Interruption until 4 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U105	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - Opinion of the Petitions Commission. Request by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Jānis Vucanas, Ulda Augulis, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Armands Krauze and Vjačeslavs Dombrovska to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, Minister of Culture Nauris Puntulis “On the submission of questionable quality documents and the lack of public involvement, directing the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the National Concert Hall project at Elizabetes Street 2, Riga”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U106	Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! The inquiry panel examined the request made by Members of the Saeima Viktoras Valaiņa, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Jānis Vucanas, Ulda Augulis, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Armands Krauze and Vjačeslavs Dombrovska to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, Minister of Culture Nauris Puntulis “On the submission of questionable quality documents and the lack of public involvement, directing the order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the project of the National Concert Hall on Elizabetes Street 2, Riga” (No. 30/P13, doc. No 2739) and, in the absence of votes by - 4, 6 abstentions, 4 and 1 Members, recognise that the request made by Members must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U107	Let us start a debate. Name of Minister for Culture Naurim Puntulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U108	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members! Honourable Members! Colleagues in politics and colleagues in stage art and music! So far, no major world or European concert hall has been built without serious scandals, without diametrically opposing views, without a karafield, without fighting, without injured and without the fallen ones. I foresee that previous experience shows us that Riga will not be an exception to this issue either. So let me speak today about the concert hall on Elizabetes Street 2 in three words - in terms of the past, the present and the future. I'll start in step with the expression of the past. So, in the middle of June. In mid-June, the government decided to build an acoustic concert hall in Riga, Elizabetes Street 2. What was the basis for this decision? This decision was based on an information report from the Ministry of Culture, together with: firstly, the opinion of the National Cultural Heritage Administration on the value of the building, which clearly indicates that this building does not have such a value to preserve it, and that the building was built without accounting for building rules, the green area, urban environmental traditions and so on; secondly, the study of the architecture office commissioned by the Ministry of Culture on the possibility to build an acoustic concert hall here on Elizabeth Street; thirdly, the opinion of the State Real Estate on the cost of renovation or dismantling of the building; fourthly, the advisory opinion of the National Board of Architecture on the possibility to build a concert hall on Elizabeth Street; fifthly, the opinion created by discussions with representatives of the music industry, orchestra management, music producers, musicians, thus residents of the future building, and later confirmed by these representatives of the music industry in their support of the public space. As a result, I am proud and pleased that with this decision, the government has proved, first of all, that it is able to deliver on what it has promised and to take important decisions of political power, without affecting economic power and its lobbies. And here, most likely, the real reasons for opposition are also to be found. Secondly. An ancient debt has been paid to the music industry, with which we are all so proud, and this has also put an end to the public debate since 1987. So for 33 years - if someone seems to have had insufficient time to discuss the construction of the concert hall. Thirdly. I am pleased that the government refused to renovate the building for the needs of the offices, which would be the continuation of Communism traditions, which were strongly opposed by the National Cultural Heritage Board (and has also been highlighted in its report) and which were also opposed by the opponents of the idea of this concert hall, the representatives of modern architecture, thus putting an end to the actual contentful obscuration of the building for 30 years, not to mention the content of the building before that, and... building for 30 years with a loud title, but often questionable quality for tenants. Fourth. I am pleased that the government did not choose to sell this building and its outstanding location to a foreign investor so that we would build our own concert hall in the bushes. Five. I am pleased that with this choice we are also giving new breath and life to the historical building at Kronvalds Boulevard 6, a sea-school building that has been empty for 13 years and which is included in the concert hall's joint ensemble or project. It's about the past. Right now. First. Currently, a working group with broad involvement of professionals from various sectors of society has been established in the Ministry of Culture. Secondly. Currently, the State Real Estate is carrying out an in-depth technical survey of the building, the conclusion of which will be ready in October, but it is already clear that the story of the outstanding technical condition of the building is a myth. Thirdly. An in-depth study of the building on behalf of UNESCO is also carried out by the National Cultural Heritage Office. Fourth. On the way to the international competition for architects for the construction of this concert hall in mid-October, the Baltic School of Architects will be held, which will give the public a clearer view of the intention to build this concert hall by integrating, not integrating or partially integrating the existing building. And finally. This morning, the President of the Bank of Latvia answered the question about the 2021 budget: “With the budget there is okay, but there is no real ambition.” Here you have them. Concert hall at Elizabetes Street 2 is not a narrow question. First we are talking here about Kronvalds Park as a single cultural space, about the cultural and music centre in Riga with: first, the acoustic concert hall on Elizabetes Street 2... which could possibly bring the name of the outstanding Maris Jansons; second, with a qualitative concert hall for other genres in the place of the Congress House (the road to it has already begun); third, with a single doctoral hall for three universities of culture that have transformed into a consortium, at the university, with all the resulting synergies in the current location of the Faculty of Biology in Kronvalds Park; fourth, with the district of Kronvalds Park already located in the territory of Jāzeps Medis, the 1st Music School of Riga and the Latvian National Theatre; fifth, with the building of the Freeport Authority of Riga as a unitary space for the entire Kronvald Park; sixth, look more specifically: the canal as a connecting axis, and the green area as a connecting axis, where one of the Latvian National Opera and the Latvian National Theatre is on one end; fifth, with the cultural cooperation with Riga, the construction and the construction of the construction, the construction of the construction and the construction of the construction and the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction, the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction and the construction of the construction of a, the construction of the construction and the construction of the construction and the construction of the construction of the construction, the construction and the construction of the construction, the construction of the construction, the construction, the construction construction construction construction, the construction construction construction construction, construction construction construction constructionssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss, As a result, we can talk about Riga as a European, as a North European cultural metropolis. And not just talking, but de facto. A government that does not have great goals is worth it. A nicely worthy minister who has no great goals and great ambitions. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U109	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U110	Mr. High Minister. Colleagues! It was not yet true that John was here when we discussed this matter at the Committee on Petitions, and now it is a pleasure that we have not yet snowed up when we look at it at this sitting of the Saeima. But still. You mentioned that there are no concert halls made without fighting. The question here is: who has created this fight? Was it really the opposition of the Saeima? Look at what the demand really is. The request is about the past in which you came to such a decision. When you look at this issue in the Panel, you yourself were present and there these architects, to whom you touched one of the points, were not at all unanimous, unambiguous, that all these architects would support this decision taken by the government. The question that we tabled was how the government is working on drawing up its draft decisions, on how they reach this decision until now, and this decision is not that it was created one day. It had a whole past. And this past was based on really research, developed research on both locational choice and different models that... Among other things, the private partnership model was driven by the Ministry of Culture, where there was also political monitoring of the National Alliance, but now the opinion has changed for you to another solution. You're saying it's... This house has no value. Then it has been recognised that this house has no cultural and historical heritage value, or - perhaps - also. But this house has financial value. And look, as you want, it's 7 million, which are available in these reports, and it's another 3 million to break down this house. Overall, they are 10 million just for it to happen there. Is our national budget really ready to devote 10 million so that the construction of the concert hall takes place right there? If we look at the previous works of the Ministry of Culture and the Government itself, order, analyse different places in Riga where there could be a new concert hall, none of these studies - absolutely none of these studies! - was not mentioned at Elizabetes Street 2. None! ( Internouncing call.) It just fell from the air. There were various projects led by the National Association at the forefront of its culture ministers, including those currently being discussed by the UKP. But this project really did not exist. And that's 10 million paid only for the choice of place. At the same time, to develop some kind of other degraded areas in Riga - you do not even consider this, forget that such proposals have been made. These proposals are very specific, both in the Tornakalns area and in the Skanste area, where there are land, public person, municipality or state-owned land, where some degraded area could be developed, which could also attract funds from the European Union. All these opportunities exist, and these opportunities need to be assessed. I think that together with the management of Riga municipality we have to come to a common solution. This request was that the work had not been done before submission, Minister... And that is your responsibility, Minister, that you did not. You are now saying that today we are talking about working groups that will come together, form plenums, the whole of the Baltics... everyone will come together and make some sketches, how all this will look, but in reality, all this should have been done before such a hard statement comes, and this hard statement, I think, is still very critical. I'm afraid we're so rich, so rich, that we can 10 million... Just close your eyes quietly, 10 million... just because it will be there, just to have it on Elizabetes Street 2, just so that we demolish this house, we are calmly ready to support this approach today. At the same time, there are completely different areas where perhaps these 10 million should invest more meaningfully and develop some more forgotten place. They're... In the same studies, this same PricewaterhouseCoopers, where various sites were analysed, as one of the main things in developing such infrastructure, is to develop the territory. Develop a degraded area - one of the main benefits. This is what other European countries are doing. It does so in Ireland, it is elsewhere. But we choose to develop the Silence Centre. I'm sorry, colleagues, who's downgraded right in the Pacific Center? What exactly is in the quiet centre where the path of development should go in the way that the Minister now offers? In my opinion, for this discussion, in substance... with the experts had to be, already before you came with this loud statement, and that would be the right way. All the government has done in the past, including the government in which you are, has been a completely different direction. Well, then you should justify giving up your previous choices. You didn't do that on the commission or now on the platform. You just said your main direction that we'll go... Let us continue on this path. There are also many questions here from urban planners. What will the traffic be like? Where are these cars going to stay? Also from the point of view of the environment - how many trees will have to be cut? You mentioned in the committee sitting that they will be just a few, but, listening to the various architects who have spoken... they have said... a lot of others... a different perspective on this subject. These will probably not be just a few trees that will have to be cut in the center of Riga. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for this request to be supported, because the demand on the substance is correct and you all know it well. This decision was not taken in the course of the debate. This council of architects, referred to by the Minister, recognised in the public space - not only in the committee meeting - that they had not taken this issue seriously at all. It was like, "Can it be there?" Well, theoretically, you could. But it wasn’t a question: “We’re really going to build here. What do you say about it?” We see that in the MyaBalss.lv initiative we collect signatures for granting this building the status of a cultural historical monument. Various initiatives. The view of architects is not clear. But instead of building this concert hall in a place where there wouldn't be such a fight... And I'm not talking about Andrejsala here, I'm talking about many other places in Riga... which is a land owned by a public person. Currently, Riga's new management... How do they feel about this? How do they feel about where the concert hall should be? Colleagues, no one ever really demanded anything for that Riga City Council. If we look at the development of concert halls in Latvia today. Well, and... are beautiful examples for us in Rezekne, Liepaja, Ventspils - well, fantastic examples! And there the main driver of this concert hall, together with the Ministry of Culture, has always been the municipality. One of the main initiators and promoters of the idea has always been the municipality. In this case, the municipality simply awaits when they put on... It's just everything... Salix cakes on the table - please re where you concert hall, we do not require anything from you. It's really... This is not the right approach. The residents of Riga should have a municipal mandate. It should be said where it's going to be... And if it's... If these two thoughts coincide, there will be no fight you mentioned about. These three other concert halls are also built without such a fight. There was another kind of fight there, but not a fight for what place, what way, what... what this concert hall will look like. There was more fight for funding... always. No one is easy to create, and this concert hall will not become easy either. But the choice of place still today... It's here today, from the podium... Undoubted support from both industry professionals... Industry professionals signed this letter and I met it -- well, really beautiful letter! They had all signed up to the need for a concert hall. And we also believe that concert halls are needed. We are not saying that the concert hall should not be, but we need to discuss and see from these economic aspects where the most convenient place to build the concert hall, how it fits into urban planning, how it fits into the city landscape. This has not been done at the moment. Colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal - this request to the Minister. These answers, in substance, have not been given, and this issue needs to be further assessed, and the things I am talking about today - they need clear answers and there is a need for consensus... There is a need for consensus. Maybe it's the right time, maybe even before major public spending has taken place, because in the past, the hundreds of thousands that have been spent in various researches... Perhaps we need to say, firstly, why these studies are not suitable for anything, and secondly, to clearly justify why there is a new choice. Unfortunately, you did not say that from this troupe today. All you said is Communism... The ghost of communism and we will enjoy it and build a concert hall there. But on the other hand, all these architects... economic issues, however, give rise to uncertainty, which should be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U111	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U112	Dear colleagues, Members of the Saeima! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the patience that you have been here for several hours in the Saeima's meeting room, waiting for your line and discussing perhaps not only a difficult but also an unpleasant subject for you at the moment - about the selection of the concert hall site on Elizabetes Street 2. Well, they say they won't argue about taste, and that's why I'm not going to talk about whether there is a building built in the style of Vilciņš, Ādra and Asaris, just a monument of my time (with some too much connotation) or whether it is also a pearl of architecture and perhaps also a cultural and historical monument, but I would also like to talk about some other considerations that I think are unsatisfactory in the implementation of this process. First. Decision. Indeed, I was pleased to hear that you have now set up a working group with experts to assess the condition of Elizabeth Street 2 building, from the gallery, which assesses whether or not a concert hall can be built in that particular place, and many other considerations. This is the homework you had to do before you went to the government question. This, and not only this, but also the discussions with the public, had to be done with the experts before the decision was made in the government. For my part, I support the construction of the concert hall, and I have always done so, and also, as the Minister of Finance (even as the Minister of Economics in the past), supported the efforts of your previous colleague Dace Melbārde to build the concert hall. And substantial funding and resources have also been allocated in previous years to carry out various types of research and to prepare the best option for the construction of the concert hall. And indeed, for several years, there was no such idea of building a concert hall on Elizabetes Street 2 with a rotten word from the Ministry, from experts and industry. I assume that it also had its own considerations. There were many other options that were analysed, and it was interesting that last year, Minister, there were at least nine different options in the public discussion organised by the Ministry of Culture, among which there were no Elizabetes iela 2. In this context, I would like to move on to the second topic. You talked about the emotional factors that really matter symbolism, that it is important for large projects and that you cannot do big things without blood (forgive me if I quote you a little inaccurate). You have also mentioned that those who oppose this project, perhaps also the opposition, are guided by an economic power. I hope that it was not meant to be an accusation that there is some economic power, accompanied by opposition and those who are against this project at all, but thought that those who are against this project are also guided by economic considerations. Unfortunately, or fortunately, Minister, economic considerations must also be taken into account when deciding on large, outstanding cultural objects. And that is the second consideration that I do not consider acceptable that, in a situation where we are actually in an economic crisis, yes, on the one hand, we have relatively large resources that we can now obtain for the development that the European Union has given us, we have difficult times ahead of us. As a small country, we cannot afford to squander funds if we know clearly that there is a building (no discussion of cultural and architectural value) that has a certain material value in this particular place. Currently, 7 million - the residual value, next to the building - another 1.5 million, the value that we simply wiped out to build a concert hall there instead of we could build a concert hall elsewhere, either in one of those nine variants. I believe that this is an uneconomic decision and cannot be supported. Just like... It happens that a cat under the tail or simply wasted has all the resources that have already been invested in the work of previous years, your predecessors in the work, considering other options that the government has already actually decided on several occasions and had already taken a conceptual decision and support. Finally, Minister, on ambitions. The ambitions, if they are development-oriented, are good and supportive. But when you talk about ambitions in the next year's budget, I would, however, ask you, as the industry minister, not to put a card on just one project, building a single building or not. You are a minister of the industry, not a minister of the concert hall. Much more ambition, in my opinion, and more success for you would be if you could be proud to come out in front of the media and declare that you have fought the increase in wages for those working in the sector at the coalition sitting, rather than justifying that it is difficult times for those working in the cultural sector to wait, unfortunately. In parallel with the construction of the concert hall, believe me, it sounds a little funny if you can say so. The ambitions would be good if you were also able to achieve them at a time when the cultural sector would not have had to wait at least three months at the time of the Covid-19 crisis, when the sector had to stop working and people had no income at all. You were unable to agree on support for projects in the cultural sector. A few months have passed before you could say some good news to people that they will have some kind of compensation, there will be some help from the country. That would be, I would say, such great ambitions, and that would be a good result that you could achieve as a minister. I will also appreciate if you, as a minister, set yourself an ambition - to keep those working in the industry of royalties or at least a tax regime that can be drawn up by those working in the cultural and art sectors. Because, believe me, if the minimum social contributions are introduced now... Even if from 1 July... You think a lot of time to prepare... They can't pull it. They just won't have anything to eat. These are the ambitions that I wish you to implement, not just focus on building one building! And then... I believe that then you will have much more respect for the sector. And then, I believe, it will not be that in the cultural sector too... that musicians will have such a dilemma when they have a project in front of them - either here or not at all. I understand them, too. I fully understand why they have supported this project, because I understand that it is for those working in the music sector... it is better for the building to exist at all than it is. Knowing how much meditation has been meditated for many years, will understand that if one chance is missed, then others may not be. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U113	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U114	Mr. Puntull! I know that you have actually been in culture with roots for the whole of your conscious life - until you joined the National Union. Of course... You were a tenor in the opera before that. I remember, during school, I wanted to copy your long hair hairstyle and we sang to the girls: “When the soul smells like, when the night burns, night visions... “ It I also remember that you were a member of the Soviet Army pop group Star... All your history is related to culture. And I have no doubt that your goal and desire is to have a good concert hall. However, the reasoning you have chosen is, in my opinion, a little criticism. And it is criticised in several respects. The first aspect is this. You say we need a concert hall on Elizabeth Street. At all costs, right there! I think that is in some way a mistake. I've been talking to big builders who say that half of the park there will have to be cut out to build... implement the project that you want to implement in the centre of Riga, where in principle everything is fine. Second. Your argument is that this house is the Soviet... Well, it's like it remains. But then I have the opposite argument: we have all the districts with the remains of Soviet times. Maybe we need people to get the house in order from the beginning? There is one more thing that is important. We in Latvia have... How many concert halls for this moment? Quite a lot if we look at it in a relative way. The problem is that we want to go back, again... Now... And I have no doubt that it would be good if we could afford now - at a time when we cannot afford children... Your party is voting against the weekend... more than EUR 1.20... frozen sachet at the school door... It would be good if we could just talk about money like that. And I think that is a big problem. The problem is... lies in the argument that when we travel to a concert hall, we seem to fight for culture in such a false way. But culture actually starts with education! Culture begins with children’s education at school, not with a large, huge concert hall. I'm not against concert halls. I just say that there is a time at which we can afford, and there is a time at which we have to look at whether, if we do not have the ability to provide a holiday for children, we need 10 million to be ejected simply because it is our ambition. And the problem is that now it looks like... not only in today's circumstances, but also in circumstances that have been the case for many years... We have that desire to show up... that if we build some big concrete block, we will be all right, then everything will enter the country... everything will be fine - everyone will go here, live here, go to concerts, life in the melts and the like. But that is not true! That's not true! You got to start from the other end. We want to be proud of the concert hall, but we just have to go to Matīss iela... or Jelgava... the police station and look at the conditions there... And is all this a sign of our high cultural development? It's not a reproach in your direction, but... I am referring to a relatively simple argument that you have used. In this context, I think the most important emphasis is whether at the moment, when there are five large concert halls in our country... I don't remember that one of them would have spoken to us by someone famous in the world... that one of them would have been filled with world-famous tenors, world-famous pop groups, world-famous artists... that there would be huge development of tourism. The problem is not at the concert hall... the problem is in those side-by-side cases - that from our country... We can build... Whatever, but people from our country want to escape, not to go here. It is similar to the Latvian National Museum of Art in which... We're proud we've built a big... After repairing a large house. The world is not proud of what the house is, the world is proud of what the content is! And an example is the Metropolitan Museum, which is absolutely uncelebrity, but the content there is wonderful. The same applies to the concert hall. I think that in these circumstances, where there is a lack of money in the country (the budget has a deficit - at least a billion, as at least in the press!) Just throw away 10 million because of our ambitions, that's... it gives us the feeling that we want to build because there are so-called... as the people say, otkati; that's why about all the frogs right there... We have countless sites, countless degraded areas that we could develop and where this concert hall could be built - in addition, cheaper... and maybe more interesting... and could leave it in the park as it is, a little flatten... May the municipality correct it! And so on. Another thing I want to say in this context is that... From your speech, Minister, I didn't hear it... You said that we would be proud to have a concert hall in Riga. I didn't hear the argument why, despite the fact that we have these other... five concert halls... Why in our society attitude towards the state... Just because we have a house, the house of the concert hall, has not improved. And maybe in this context from you as an artist with great experience in the field of culture... the specific explanation requested - what are those arguments in substance... not to be so eloquent, to be eloquent in architect's language, but in essence - from positions of national identity, from state development positions, from positions of arrangement of the cultural space. Why is there a need? I repeat: I do not want to accuse you of the pitiful state of the Matīss Street police station, but at the same time we are talking about fantastic cultural development. I do not want to blame you personally, but I do want to say to your party that we have lats and 20 Sundays for children, but at the same time we do not regret 10 million just to get out because of our ambitions. These are the things I would expect from you. Maybe you'd explain it extra from the podium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U115	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U116	Minister! Dear colleagues, Today so much has already been said! I don't want to say anything about whether this concert hall as such is necessary or not. Although it is a separate discussion in itself. But when we talk about location, we're very clear here... Well, what is called uneconomic action. Colleagues! If it were a commercial company, the shareholders of the commercial company would quite rightly bring an action against the... in this case, against the Minister. And criminal responsibility for this, colleagues. Evidence of this is absolutely essential. There is no shortage of empty and free places in Riga - it is absolutely clear! If you choose the location where you currently have a functioning building that makes a profit (which means that this functioning building has an economic value!) Then this decision... the offer is manifestly uneconomic. Because it will cause damage to the state by breaking down such a building. If anyone wants to claim that this building is a ruin, then... Colleagues, a few years ago, the Ministry of Economics planned to move to this building on Elizabetes Street 2. Well, if someone says that this building is a ruin, it means that the Ministry of Economics, which is responsible for building and housing policy... This means that the Ministry of Economics is absolutely not geared to construction, housing policy or the economy as such. Colleagues! If we are talking about these losses that will arise if this building is dismantled on Elizabetes Street 2, it must be said that they are to be measured at least a few million euros. I will remind you, my fellow Members, today of what happened only a few hours ago! When we were looking at the issue of the tenants of denationalised houses, there are many of you who were unable to support the proposal to allocate an amount that can be measured in some million euros to these tenants of denationalised houses. And here, colleagues, really is a question for your conscience. If this building on Elizabetes Street 2 is so unnecessary for you, then maybe it could be disposed of... to return the same denationalised houses to the tenants? I'm sure within a few years, at least a few hundreds of them... from rental payments would be money to help them move, purchase other apartments or housing. That's why... Colleagues, I call on you not to do anything that, if you were a private company employee, would threaten your criminal liability. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U117	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U118	Madam President, Minister! Members! Now there's such a fun question - whether you need a concert hall or not. I guess I need it. You need to admit that you need to. We have been talking about this for 20 years, there have been many projects. In the same dam - also... was a project where... the most expensive project - on the water... where you can't come by car. And, unfortunately, we do not have the experience of building something under water... especially if they still need to be strengthened. But we were ready to build. We built a library, demolished a historical house that was over 100 years old. None of you objected to it, didn't say that a historical house should not be dismantled! They took it off, they forgot everything, not transferring it... Technologically, it was allowed to transfer their houses, but no - we took them apart. Now we are building the second round of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia. You must have missed and seen how they were building -- just get out of the brick, put a new brick... Work continues... Two percent... To build a sarcophagus... A could build Chinese from two months to two months. I recently visited Riga Commercial Port... A European project that can be visited by six euros... And there's a lot of sarcophagus or former hangars... Art is also there - artists place their paintings there. An empty, degraded area has been standing for 20 years in the city center on the river bank! Of course... Maybe there's... have two time oligarch owners... or how... Is that so? I don't know. But why then (The Head of the Sitting knocked out with a hammer.) Can't we buy them out of those oligarchs? If the country... You, “Fatherland and Freedom”, were in power all the time, you gave that building to that oligarch... permission - also... No, you don't... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We are trying to make this project the most expensive project in the world. Take Paris, France! Ten or eight years ago they built a huge concert hall... I guess three and a half thousand spectators. Did they build it in Louvre Park or on Concordy Square? Maybe in Trocatter's square? No, no! They built it 13 miles [13 km] from the city center. Thirteen! And nothing! Everybody's going! We want to put all the theatres in here off the coast of the canal... created by Peter I. So that dilemma is very great. But now we live in a democratic country, and the people also have a name... especially if the people also demand that they need it and that... Of course, architect Vilciņš... He died, but his works remained. And if you were in Turaida, on Mount Dainu... That's too... Create it in the Song Mountain ensemble... It's his job. So that he too... As an outstanding architect... and with others... I don't think it's building in a very bad condition, as the Minister said right now. I also admit that those specialists who serve as advisors to the Minister... they can't say any words against it... that the project is bad or that it is not economically profitable... because they will be released the next day - right away. We built a large Mezaparks exhibition of 100 million, even though we were. ... one event... one measure - at best! - There we go. An expensive project is standing empty. Go and see. And that's why... I am for the concert hall, but I am not prepared to pay such a high price from taxpayers' money. So that - reject! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U119	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U120	Minister! Colleagues! Unlike many of you, I had the honour of dealing with development issues in Riga for many years. It is not an easy job, it requires very much attention, sensitivity, ambition, as the Minister said. Undoubtedly. Question one. Need a concert hall in Riga or not? Undoubtedly, the concert hall in Riga is needed. The second question. Where should it be built? As a general rule, the urban development plan provides an answer to this question. The existing development plan in Riga does not provide for this type of construction exactly in this designated place. Third. If we are talking about the fact that this building is outdated, demolition is cheaper than renovation... and that it is not a monument, maybe I agree with it, but - next to the building of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is finally fall out of the entire Riga ensemble, from all Riga's development plans. And, above all, that its building really is not suitable for the work of officials and for normal, human circumstances, for work as such. Fourth. I am not talking about the fact that the first thing to do is to look at the National Development Plan. The next thing that should be done is to try, together with architects and musicians, to develop a project of these intended places, even a sketch, as this case would look like. When I was talking about reconstruction of the Riga Congress House, I had a long conversation with Raimonds Pauls. He thought that its building could really be rebuilt, but its reconstruction was so radical that it would actually be easier to dismantle it and build a concert hall in that place, which is a real option. Five. We also forgot to talk today about what construction costs will be, because it also depends on the project and other conditions, because we are talking only about what the existing building costs and what the demolition of the building costs. How much this project will cost, how the sources of funding will be implemented and what they will be - this is an open question... Finally. I would like to remind you, honourable colleagues, of the discussions around the construction of the Latvian National Library building. Perhaps someone else remembers that in time it was planned to put in place a special electron medium to collect funds for building the building. I am not saying that this option would also be seen today, but - which is also mentioned in the request - that the issue of financial nature has not been resolved in any way and is not even in the project - is not even in the project! - because the costs will depend on the building's own project. Finally. See when it was about different places in this building... or other places, there was a wide public debate, but the existing government and the ruling coalition, you apologies to me, colleagues, are doing absolutely the opposite of any democratic norms. A very recent example is the construction of the State Security Service... building construction. That project with whom was it agreed? No one. The planting of trees by the New Conservative Party is still standing in front, but the felling of trees has already taken place. It is also a construction project which is expensive enough. This project has also not been discussed with anyone seriously, so that it can be said that society is on the floor of the whole project and place offered and ready to support the case even with its own staff. And finally. Ambition is a good thing. The ambition without reason and calculation, you forgive me, is a sign of idiotism. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U121	The time allowed for the debate is 15 minutes. Mr. Dombrava, you're going to have seven? Name to Member Janis Dombrava. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U122	When the political forces ask whether they want to build a new acoustic concert hall, then most of them say yes, but each of them has a different opinion. Well, yes, now there are rare exceptions as well as perhaps that will say “no”. But there are different points of view where to build it. For one, it seems that the concert hall will sink with the AB dam if it is built. For the other, it seems that the Sparrow's money... Money capital will grow if it is built in a different place, while Elizabetes Street has managed to hit many such very emotional stripes that many have started their political career in this building, remember their youth days, so nostalgia looks at this building and certainly does not want to let it be broken. I also have my opinion on this concert hall. I think Elizabeth's place... Elizabetes Street is not a bad place, but I really believe that the area of Victory would be the ideal place. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Let's move... Let's move this monument. (Applause) I think that people's contributions will be collected. Let us give this House just an acceptance of this initiative. I think the Minister will agree too. ( Milestones.) There will be beautiful ponds next to you, where you will be able to go out of the concert lovers. WHY weep, but at least we will have the opportunity to save the budget as well. Let's do it! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U123	Mr. Bondar, you and five... It's going to be enough for four minutes now? ( Milestones.) The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U124	As the only member of the Petitions Commission, I am from the speakers here (Interface: Member: yes!) )... Maybe... I agree with what the Minister said about the past, about the present and about the future. Then speaking about the past. Well... Well, as I'm going to talk about the concert hall here and don't talk to... Yeah, something said in the song, huh? Aria Elksne, “Not worth”. Because, by its very nature, the demand is about the submission of questionable quality documents and the lack of public involvement. So far, there has been no text here on this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “There was!” Impressions: “We need to listen!” ) No, now I listened carefully... I listened carefully, but Aria... Aria Elksne has said the best: “The raiņa tomb flies ravens and pity girdles – it is not worth it, it is not worth it.” ( The ring of noise.) It seems to me that, speaking about the past, Aria Elksne has said precisely with Edgars Liepiņš. ( The transcripts are: ‘ Let’s stop the sitting! ’) ; “Houses!” ) Talking about the speaking now, given that the Minister has said a certain frame. Mr. Valains said... or... It happens between Johns and snow, but George Sixn sang greatly: “It will be around Johns in Mārtīni After midnight just in the middle of the day.” It's about the present! It's about the present! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intersaxes.) Talking about the future, colleagues! I'm just... I see that this question of the concert hall brings such passion, both in the position and in the opposition. That is why I want to say to Naura’s colleague: “One salary that is in front of you is a crowd of friends or a bar of beasts. The most important thing is that you have a rotten branch in your own hand.” Thank you. Reject the request! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U125	Colleagues, somehow poetic... but we got out of the subject. Time to break. Dear colleagues, Members Pavļuts, Dzintars, Jurās, Latkovskis, Zakaitistovs, Augulis and Agešins ask for a break before 9 a.m. on 1 October this year. Do Members have objections? Are there any objections? ( The box “No! ”) ; “No!” ) Thus, there is no objection to Members. The debate will continue on 1 October this year. I thank the Minister for Culture, Mr Puntulis, for his explanation and for his participation in the Saeima meeting. Please call me! Please register the Members! With regard to answering Members' questions today, I must inform you. Member Zarina, Lochmele-Luniv, Tutina, Kucin and Dombrovskis have an urgent question to the Minister for Economic Affairs “On the action of the Ministry of Economics in relation to the results of the OIC power plants’ inspections”. The written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister cannot attend the oral response due to the schedule. On the urgent question to the Minister of Economics of Member Zariņa, Krišāns, Klementyeva, Niconova and Orlov “On the establishment of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers required by the Law on the Electricity Market and their compliance with the decision of the Saeima regarding monitoring of mandatory procurement of electricity”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to the schedule. Now the results of the registration. The name is Marija Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U126	Has not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Arvils Asheradens, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmārs Dūritis (Interfaces: Yes!) )... is, Dūritis is, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Armands Krauze, Maris Kučinskis, Ralphs Nemiro and Arthur Rubiks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2114-U127	Thank you. Interruption until 9 a.m. on 1 October of this year. ( Interruption)
