ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2119-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let's start the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 8 October 2020. Agenda... Colleagues, before we continue to work, call on all Members in the Chamber to put headsets on computers so that there is no sound echo! ( Pause) Dear colleagues, I hope we're... all have dealt with the technical issues that still had to be dealt with. So on the agenda – a statement about Eva Mārtāžas 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima’. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2119-U2	Colleagues! At its meeting on 2 April this year, the Saeima confirmed the mandate of Eva Mārtuja Member, while the elected Members from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties. In connection with the election of Linda Ozola to the Riga Council and the acceptance of her mandate, Eva Mārtuza has been invited to join the Saeima on a permanent basis, and she has agreed to this. On October 7th of this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications assessed all documents received and therefore declares that Eva Mārtuza 13. The Saeima is composed not for a time, but on a permanent basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2119-U3	Thank you. We have heard the announcement. On the agenda – draft decision on Linda Mednes 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for a period of time, while Members elected from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Region shall perform their duties as ministers.’ Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2119-U4	Yes, once again, colleagues! On the basis of the first and third paragraphs of Article 6 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission has prepared a draft decision of the Saeima on Linda Mednes 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for a period of time, while the elected Members of the New Conservative Party from the list of candidates in the Riga Electoral Region perform their duties as ministers. From the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Area 13. Farlis Linkait has been elected to the Saeima, who has set 13. the parliamentary mandate for the term of office of the Minister. The next candidate for parliamentary office in this constituency is Linda Medne, who has agreed to accept 13. The mandate of a Member of the Saeima. At the request of the Commission, Linda Medne confirmed at the meeting of the Commission on Mandates, Ethics and Applications on 7 October this year that she had agreed to accept 13. The mandate of a Member of the Saeima for a period of time, while the elected Members of the New Conservative Party from the list of candidates in the Riga Electoral Region perform their duties as ministers. Therefore, please support the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2119-U5	Thank you. I call on Linda Medni to make an oath or solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2119-U6	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, As a member of the Saeima, I solemnly promise to be faithful to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only language of the country, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and for the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2119-U7	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on Linda Mednes 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for as long as Members elected from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties”! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Congratulations to the Members of the Saeima, Linda Medni. (Applause) Dear colleagues, The agenda for this meeting was then examined. Ms Linda Liepiņa has applied for the procedure. Please activate the procedure section and call on the Members Linda Liepiņa to apply for a procedure. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2119-U8	Hello, dear colleagues! President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. So what I would like to say is that nothing has changed, so we are still in a remote regime, which is not provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia and the laws existing in the Republic of Latvia. It will be a great pity if this approved mandate of the new Members is also declared illegal. Well, I voted in favour, and my motivation to vote in favour was that was the will of the Latvian people, that Linda Medne should be a Member and that Eva Mārtuža should be a Member. Let's say, with a permanent mandate. But I would again call on you, Mrs Mūrniece and the entire Bureau, to return to the format of the sittings laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-08-PT13-2119-U9	Thank you. Therefore, this issue has been both assessed and clarified. National legal experts have spoken about this. Parliament shall act remotely in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you. So the distance of 8 October this year... I'm sorry. Registration of participants. Members are currently registered. It's done well. I therefore closed the remote sitting on 8 October this year. We'll get back to the next sitting in 15 minutes. Thank you.
