ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We will continue to examine the agenda of the extraordinary session of 2 July 2020. The agenda shall be for the examination of requests by Members. Request by Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Urbanoviča, Ulda Augulis, Linda Liepiņa, Didžas Šmita, Jūlija Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Vitalis Orlova, Jānis Krišāns and Arturs Rubika to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “On purchases made by the executive power during the Covid-19 crisis”. Member Ivars Puga is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U2	Good morning, colleagues! On 3 June this year, the Panel of Inquiry examined the request made by Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Urbanovičs, Ulda Augulis, Linda Liepiņa, Didžas Šmita, Julia Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Vital Orlova, Jānis Krišāns and Arthur Rubika to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On procurement by the executive power during the Covid-19 crisis” (No. 28/P13), document No. 2528 and, by voting in favour, seven against and three abstentions, admitted that Members' request should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U4	Good morning, colleagues! I hope you can hear me. If not, please send a message to the administration. This request concerns specific facts about the executive action of the Covid-19 in the event of a plague: an emergency. Before we move to concrete facts relating to this request, I call on you to think of the popular saying "during the measuring of a feast" because it will be very relevant for today's requests. I invite you to ask yourself, ‘ How could this be? ’ The fact that this is the expression of a folklore people means that it has happened many times and that there are certain regularities why it happens in such situations. Why are we going through this again and again – at a time of plague by this power, when society is waiting for other actions from power? These regularities, which lead to such a course of power – dwindling in times of pestilence, are not hard to see at all. There are a number of mechanisms to ensure that society can survive as a sustainable whole. These mechanisms have been developed and agreed over time and lead to some conditions of existence for each part of society that most of the company considers appropriate or acceptable. Processes taking place in the society... The allocation of resources shall be organised and monitored in such a way as to ensure a certain balance sheet acceptable to the company. In the event of an emergency due to circumstances, internal or external, where it is not possible to ensure the reallocation of resources required by society through the organisation of existing processes, the power shall be obliged to make changes to the organisation of these processes in order to ensure the proper functioning of society. On the one hand, it gives power an additional mandate, an opportunity to act, but on the other, it makes the rest of society more dependent on power, its decisions and actions. And the more pronounced and tangible the lack of resources for a part of society in such an emergency situation, the greater its dependence on decisions taken by power regarding the reallocation of resources. On the one hand, it gives additional motivation to gain the favor of power (e.g., to serve, to serve power rather than to perform its functions in good faith). On the other hand, it gives power the opportunity to use it selfishly, giving its approval primarily to those who are willing to serve it and agree to such cooperation conditions (e.g. purchases that would be most advantageous to power). It arises during the measurement of this feast. In turn, the unwanted and disobedient... power has a great opportunity to divide them, to put them in place. And to achieve this, power doesn't have to do anything at all – it just doesn't have to do anything, just let them stop or destroy. Democracy must, of course, be played, because it cannot be done directly and simply. There is a need to create special conditions and mechanisms for the game, through which it will be democratically decided and implemented. Many find it clear what they are expected of if they want to be in the power chain instead of being measured by hunger. For example, in the case of the media, the question arises: how much did they try to give society an objective reflection of what was done by power in this crisis, an analysis of how much was done to praise power? Without Delphi's journalists, we would all be in sacred conviction as to how skillful and self-free power has taken action to provide Latvia with personal protective equipment in an emergency situation in the context of Covid-19. In reality, when we get to know these facts, we see something quite different – irresponsibility, permissiveness, incompetentness, which has probably been not simply irresponsible and incompetent, but the cover of extensive, systemic corruption, because it is hard to believe that responsible officials can act so irresponsibly and incompetently. Such suspicion reinforces the conflicting responses given by officials, which are often... at first had been obviously false, probably hoping that no one would take care of the truthfulness of these statements. In the past, when examining the OIC Aperture, it has been necessary to face a wide range of... the handwriting of feet: from the beginning avoids, tries to lie, then tries to create confusion with all sorts of information, but does not provide clear answers to the questions asked. All this reinforces the above concerns that this is the current exercise of power by using such a very convenient emergency cover. We have already had experience with the OIC, so this kind of power action was very predictable, and we have already taken into account that we are long with these requests, but I will allow you to note that it is interesting at the beginning of the journey. The fact that it will be interesting – this is what you will learn from the facts about these purchases. And what do I want to remind those who want to create this long, interesting way for us? We know how to get this road to the end. We also know that there is a lot of interesting on this road. Only from publicly available information is it known that the rushes were concluded in the last week before the emergency was lifted (i.e. by still taking advantage of the emergency cover!) contracts for more than EUR 20 million. What urgent needs were to be covered and met with these purchases, to get them under emergency circumstances when many procedures and conditions could be circumvented, to hide possible irregularities? We also have information about such purchases. For example, I will mention a company that was able to participate and win a competition for the delivery of expensive x-ray equipment to a large Latvian hospital. How could this firm ever do so if the firm had no marketing authorisation at all, take any action with such equipment? The law stricts that there should be a special permit. Nevertheless, this firm was able to take part in this competition... In this purchase, and the hospital recognized it as the winner. I would also understand that maybe the firm did not really understand what it was doing, but the hospital knew that only companies with such permission should be allowed to take part in the competition. But – no, the hospital not only allowed this firm to participate, but also allowed it to win! And this machine has been delivered. This is a real violation of the law. Question – what forced the hospital to do this? And this is just one episode of all these quick purchases, the validity of which should be explained to the public! In order to avoid an irrational discourse in the future debate on these procurements, I would like to stress that no one disputes that, in an emergency, the power has the right to act more broadly than the framework established for the normal situation. And that it has not only the right, but also the duty to act in an emergency. However, in a legal, democratic country, it is the responsibility of the authorities to then account to the public for their actions, the validity of their decisions and their relevance to the interests of society. And if the power avoids doing so and does not do so even at the request of the highest decision-making power, the order of such power is not appropriate for a democratic and legal state, it is not in conformity with the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. In particular, I draw attention to this by those political forces who have come to restore the rule of law in this country. That is why I am particularly disappointed and concerned by the actions of those leaders who not only accepted the order of such cases but even encouraged Parliament to take a decision on these requests, including... without considering or clarifying the real circumstances of the case in the light of these requests. It is possible that the law enforcement authorities should pay attention not only to those officials who have been directly or indirectly involved in these strange purchases, but also to those politicians who are now trying to cover up these activities. Explain your motive for doing so. I think that by doing this long, interesting path, you will be given the opportunity to give your reasons for doing so. Because these requests, as I said, are just the beginning of the road. If everything with these purchases is what we are trying to present to those involved – as responsible, self-free and susceptible to behaviour in the public interest – then there should be no delay in allowing the public to make sure of it and give them an opportunity to assess their performance properly. Well, at least to appreciate with the applause, as we've done for the doctors. In a democratic country, it is at the heart of their existence – to be useful to society and to enable society to evaluate their performance. Why, though, are officials very reluctant to reveal the true circumstances of the case and to explain the merits of their actions. The first thing that is common to all these purchases and that immediately raises questions – how does it happen that in all these purchases the winners are becoming less familiar with firms that have not specialized in the acquisition of such goods or whose main activity has not even been connected with the sale of medical goods? Well, if that were to be the case, it could still be accepted as a coincidence in circumstances in an emergency. But if that's the case in almost all purchases, then it's more like... It's about some kind of system. It would therefore be justified to find out how these procurement procedures were organised; what were the procurement criteria; what were the reasons for them; how the economic operators have been given the opportunity to know about these procurements and apply for membership; how and on what basis the most appropriate supplier was identified; what was the procedure. All this would make it possible to clarify the real circumstances of the case – the justification for the choice of the successful tenderer. This is one of the things we wanted to find out about this request. Unfortunately, the respondents, as I said, have given very avoidable answers, unable to justify why it was... the justification for such procedures in order to obtain, in the public interest, the most successful offer. The next case, which demands clarification when starting to look at the facts of the case, is the documents on the basis of which suppliers have been selected and these purchase contracts have been concluded. Many of these documents, which seem to prove the conformity of the goods, are obvious forgery and are very lax. And it's easy to see who they are at their disposal... everyone to whom they are available. Many documents are in Chinese only – without any explanation about their content, simply claiming that they have a connection with the proposed transaction. Even with generally available translation tools, evidence can be obtained that rightly casts doubt on such claims. Documents of origin known to be forged are attached. It has been publicly announced by the issuer itself. Documents from non-existent laboratories proving the conformity of the goods are attached, and so on. That's why it would have been reasonable to get... to provide the public with an explanation of how responsible and competent officials have fulfilled their responsibilities in preparing those procurements and in evaluating the documents necessary for those transactions, so that the public can ascertain that this has been done in the public interest and not just in order to secure the execution of the transaction, thus potentially putting a large proportion of the public at risk in relation to the supply of goods of a low quality. We included such questions in the request and asked for evidence and justification to be verified. None of these could be provided by the responsible official. There were simply avoidable answers without any justification. The next key point is: How did the responsible officials make sure that the product delivered was the right product – what meets the requirements of the contract? It should be borne in mind that many of these transactions have been carried out on the basis of documents of uncertain or even unknown content, which, moreover, have dubious origin. In some cases, the document has been an obvious forgery, but the goods have been accepted according to the contract... accepted documents... How, then, are officials convinced that this is the right product? Neither did we receive any such evidence, nor did we receive precise explanations... We received general reservations that raised even more questions. For example, you have all heard public statements about the fact that our responsible authorities have carried out checks on the conformity of goods in certified laboratories. If that is the case, then why could the officials submit only questionable origin to the parliament... and non-existent... and compliance... origin and compliance... the results of tests carried out by non-existent laboratories, but these tests, as if carried out by accredited laboratories in the European Union, demonstrating that the goods have been fit, cannot yet be presented? If all this is true, then it should be quite the other way around – it would have been a basis for the quick submission of these documents. But it is these documents that have still not been submitted. Looking at the dynamics of all these purchases, there is another valid question: how necessary all these purchases have been; why have they been structured in this way... selected delivery times, delivery volumes... and in particular prices? As it can be seen from the information obtained, the authorities responsible had the option of purchasing these products at lower prices, but this was not the case. Why? Why, in certain cases, it was possible for certain economic operators to quickly sell their goods, because falling prices in the market... In addition, in the case of undue large volumes? This applies more to those purchases that were made later when Latvia had already been supplied volumes of masks and respirators that were sufficient to meet its needs for a much longer period of time. However, quick purchases were made for even larger volumes, without waiting for these goods to be bought at significantly lower prices, as prices have already fallen. Then there is a valid question – how has Krišjānis Kariņš, as the Head of the Crisis Management Board, overseen the whole process? Has there been any proactive action? Or just having listened to the fairy tales, having signed something and created soil for the current afēr – just like he did with OIK at the time, signing this OIK... a bill? He was the one who laid the foundations for this afērve. At the moment, it seems that this is happening in the same way. There is a huge difference between how all this has happened in fact and how it is served. The facts are simply shocking. Looking at the next request, we'll go in detail... by points. I'll show you concrete facts so that you can see how interesting the way ahead of us is... We're waiting for... the fact that, on the basis of forged documents, documents which do not at all prove the real existence of the goods and the existence of the producer are subject to decisions of millions and the haste of implementation of decisions by less well-known firms. Within the framework of this request, the defendants were also unable to submit the requested documents, which would enable us to make sure that this was not the case, but that it was implemented in the public interest. Sadly, we see that the power has been set up in the days of the mayor. And for that you will be able to make sure. I call for support for the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U5	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U6	Hello, dear Latvian community! What I would like to say to you is that all this Covid-19 theater, which has happened since the spring of this year in fact to this day, is one great aperture that our power, the government, the ruling coalition, has used not for the benefit of the people, but for its own good. Let me start with an example that is directly linked to this request for procurement that has taken place during the Covid-19 crisis. And in particular, I would like to highlight the procurement that involves buying facial masks from China or from where – Singapore... And let's see the chronology of events. The chronology of events is as follows: When all this began – let's call it chaos, fear – and when an emergency was declared... in the initial stage... and even before the emergency announcement... Let us remember some phrases! Our “genial” Viņķele publicly said that everything is perfect, everything is completely secured (this is true – she said it!) . But the reality was very different. The real situation was that nothing was ready, nothing was bought... and later in the public space, we saw countless Viņķelis reports that the masks will be finished immediately, and everything will be finished immediately. And that made it necessary to buy masks. And then. We will follow public announcements – by politicians, as well as Infectologists and others! When all these “threats” began (footsteps!) , face masks should not be used necessarily or optionally. Even Uga Dumpis suggested that they should not be used on buses, Depo, or in other supermarkets, anywhere. Why? Therefore, because there was nothing to sell, there was nothing to buy from China at an increased price. Who followed? Next followed Mrs. Viņķele's purchases for facial mask... So the purchase. Advertising agencies or some advertising printing companies... suddenly began delivering... from Singapore... mask... Companies whose turnover has never been historical enough to suggest that these companies have at all adequate funding, where they are still engaged in exports, imports, production and similar products! We don't, of course, in Latvia... Neither Rosme, nor Lauma, nor other textile factories are those that produce such products. We have some mystical little capital... unknown SIA, whose owners are in some way related to the Unity or to Development/About! And Viņķelis. And the result: so we get masks – what a big event! It turns out that there are problems with documents; Mr Zarins has just spoken about this, and this is what the whole society has seen. And here's the next interesting thing, and the next interesting thing is this. Then when these masks are brought, and then when in essence everyone realizes that this afēra does not really work, because in fact there is no real danger and in reality in Latvia... statistics show that much more is drowned in Latvia, much more is killed, more people are killed than from... and where else from heart disease and other infectious diseases such as hepatitis C, and so on... And where else to talk about the same common flu! Then this “false” decision to lift the state of emergency is taken, but to continue in the vebinary sittings of the Saeima. This is contrary to the Constitution. At that point it is said that the masks will have to be worn on buses, because they have come from China, they have to be realised somewhere. Well, then people have to go and buy masks, because Viņķele has provided them – at last. You don't need them during an emergency, but when an emergency is over, you need to wear them on buses! We must have come to a very “scientific” finding that our people will bus far more... are more diseased, susceptible to viruses... and that this virus is the most active. And that in the supermarket Depo or Rimi or Maxima – there is no active virus. ( Remember, during the state of emergency, the Depo store was, by the way!) There's no virus there, it's not sticking there; it's just getting in the buses, and it needs to be with those masks. That must have been scientifically proven to be the case? Well, let's assume that science says that Covid-19 buses are the most active. The masks are sold – as far as I understand, something from China has been brought again recently, documents are prepared there, everything is happening. But there is one more question – but what do our law enforcement agencies do? What are the police doing? What's KNAB doing? The general public sees that public money is stolen in large amounts – it is spent in unnecessary purchases! State money is stolen by ordering goods through companies... And there's another question – what is our Financial Intelligence Service doing? Where have the companies with those small capitals got them millions? It's not some money laundering? Is this checked? Usually life is not that a normal businessman with a very small turnover... Well, it's not that he goes to the bank and gives him suddenly millions of huge purchases. Well, he just doesn't give it if he doesn't have the security. Where did these people take the millions to deliver their goods? But every logical person understands this – anyone who has even a little gray cells. It is therefore clear that this afer, this vebinar we are dealing with, is only to fear people. To be afraid! May people be afraid of them all the time, and so that the government and the ruling coalition can do their black things! I'll remind you that if there's already such a worry that people need to be protected so that they don't die so that they can survive... that adult people survive... I have never heard either from the Minister for Health or from anyone else that they worry about abortion that they would worry that at this time, to this day, almost 5 million people in the world have died of hunger. And, by the way, there is a vaccine against it – it is called food! But it's harder to make it because there's a need for effort, there's no business. There's no business here that could be when we explain to the public... We're afraid of something that's actually... In fact, statistics show that more than 99 percent of the world's population and more than 99.99 percent of Latvia's population all of this aphere virus is harmless. That's not like that. Fear policy and slogans that security is more important than freedom – that is the way (in addition – a clear path!) to totalitarianism. To totalitarianism, which you've always been from the podium... of which... Especially there are those national forces all... You say there in Russia - there is totalitarianism, there is Putin, there is... Lukashenko is also in Belarus... and so on. That they've been in power for years and that there's no freedom there. But let's see how Latvia is! In Latvia, the Unity has been in power since 2012 – almost 20 years. For more than 10 years – Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. For more than 10 years! And then it's okay. Now there's exactly the same situation here... We deprive people of their freedom and do not talk about how many diseases have been allowed in this time... How much heart disease has been allowed, how many people have committed suicide because of all this madness... It is no secret that suicide rates have increased. Why? Therefore, in order to be able to make these afex purchases and then go on holiday – now, in summer, go on vacation. Now that we have to prepare people for children to go to school in the autumn! Today, by the way, the Minister of Education and Science... What's she doing? She will participate in a space research task force... political. We in Latvia do not know what will happen in autumn, September – whether children will be able to go to school and how schools will take place – but she will now study space! Education has already been destroyed, now the next one, which will be destroyed, will probably be in space. It should be shown live – just like this sitting. Mrs. Viņķele goes on vacation, and suddenly we have an outbreak. But what has she done? What she has done to make such an outbreak... that such a danger would no longer exist again? This proves that it is the people who are in power who should take responsibility. And another thing that's very long and... and the true talk must be given. You are all afraid here – with Mrs. Mūrniece at the forefront! - meeting in Saeima's meeting room. But I'm sorry, yesterday you all stayed in the social networks that you're in the Vērmanes Garden, where you meet people there without masks and without two meters of distance and campaigning. By promoting you can be courageous and avoid communication with people. Then there's no virus. The virus is sticking only when Members enter Parliament. And this proves all these hypocritical and false policies – these policies, which are aimed at scaring people, telling people that we now have and will be ready for danger in Latvia. We can't objectively have such a danger because we... we are so few that people already laugh, that this restriction, this requirement not to get closer to the other than two meters, actually means that... that by abolishing this restriction, Latvians will finally be able to return to one of the other in their usual five-metre distance. We want to compare Latvia with Italy and Spain, even though we do not have so many people. We compare incomparable things – we compare with other regions. Or may we compare it with our neighbors? And maybe let's tell the truth that the good results of our face are actually because we don't tolerate as much as we should? The less the test is, the less the results are. When you get more, then more is their result. And that's the truth. All that has happened in this time – it has been an afer, which has also been covered by the President of the Republic of Latvia, who has always talked about the Constitution and the protection of the Constitution, who has always said that democracy is very important. But he has never defended democracy. He's never talked to the opposition. Never! He has been a member of the coalition, supported by the coalition, and so has acted throughout his Presidency. Moreover, the fact that in today's circumstances he avoids providing answers to elementary questions confirms this. I call on the public of Latvia to understand that all this happens in Latvia only because the public expects and hopes that a miracle will happen. But wonders do not happen in adult life. In adult life, wonders are created by the adults themselves. And as long as you allow this false ruling coalition to steal you, it will take place. So long will be the vebinary of the Saeima, not the normal parliamentary sitting, as it is in any other country in the world. That's how long these purchases are going to be. So long there's going to be bad quality masks at red prices and everything else. All this will be the most expensive in the world, as we have always had historically the most expensive in the world. And you will be told that it is a “story of success”. And you will believe in it. But stop believing, and stop waiting, and start waking up, and rise up, and show this coalition its place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U7	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U8	Dear colleagues, Do you know what's funny? It's funny that you and four children go to the doctor and there on the door is written that the entrance is only for the masks. Then you go to the pharmacy and buy five masks for EUR 3.59. And while you are wearing those masks, there is a shortage of strictly two masks, and then you go to that pharmacy again and buy the same masks again. These are the same Chinese masks that are currently being talked about. And it would really be funny if it wasn't sad. Because there is no denying that several other European countries, which have received various devices and masks from China, have complained that quality is not appropriate for tests, respiratory or masks. Before you hit your shoulder and say that you, the government and the coalition, are those who have achieved that Latvia is in high numbers or... in the low figures for Covid-19 and have won pandemics, so to say, the first part (you are not talking about the fact that in fact we have to thank citizens and medical staff for all this!) ... Before you do it, keep in mind that you are either fooled... Either you have allowed yourself to be fooled or you have fooled the population. Select one of these options! We know very well... We have heard that there have been several shipments from the Chinese European countries at the beginning of April, in the middle of March, at the end of March... in relation to the assistance... So it was an aid mission, which was repeatedly sent as assistance to several European countries. Not for Latvia. Not for Latvia, because Latvia has paid for the same poor quality “aid” with taxpayers’ money. And now really ask yourself – who is the great hero here? Is it your heroism that you have helped society cope with this blow and have helped the economy not to fall as low as it has fallen? Are you malachi in the sense that you have deceived everyone and about the quality of the good that was sent to everyone... to the right, to the left – to other European countries... that you've paid for it yet? Of course not with your money. Of course not. With our money. And who's the man here? Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U9	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Pugs. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Urbanovičs, Ulda Augulis, Linda Liepiņa, Didžas Šmita, Julia Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Vitalis Orlova, Jānis Krišāns and Arthur Rubika's request to the Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “On purchases made by the executive power during the Covid-19 crisis”! Please, let's vote! On – 26, against – 51, abstained – 2. The request is rejected. On the agenda – request of Members Ivars Zariņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Vital Orlova, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Krišāna, Ivana Klementjeva, Valeria Agešina, Edgars Kucina and Julia Stepanenko to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On avoidance of the request of Prime Minister A. K. Kariņš in connection with purchases made by the executive power during the Covid-19 crisis”. Member Ivars Puga is on behalf of the Commission. ( Pause) Ladies and gentlemen, we have been informed that the committee's rapporteur is not present. So the technical break – five minutes. Let us try to contact Member Ivars Pugs. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U10	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. On the agenda – request of Members Ivars Zariņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Vital Orlova, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Krišāna, Ivana Klementjeva, Valeria Agešina, Edgars Kucina and Julia Stepanenko to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On avoidance of the request of Prime Minister A. K. Kariņš in connection with purchases made by the executive power during the Covid-19 crisis”. Member of the Commission for Petitions, Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U11	Hello, colleagues! I hope you hear me, I know you don't see me. I have some problems with the camera.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U12	No, colleagues, we cannot continue because we do not see you. We don't see you. Member Ivars Puga is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U13	I'm sorry, there were technical problems. On 17 June this year, the Panel examined a request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Vital Orlova, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Krišāns, Ivana Klementjeva, Valeria Agešina, Edgars Kucina and Julia Stepanenko to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On avoidance of the request of Prime Minister A. K. Kariņš in connection with purchases made by the executive power during the Covid-19 crisis” (No. 29/P13), document No. 2631 and, with seven Members voting against, two abstentions and five Members not voting, admitted that Members' request should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U14	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U15	Yeah... We have just had a very interesting vote, namely the vote on the previous request. I call on all those who follow the sitting to record how the New Conservative Party voted and how they will vote in favour of this request. This is the party that now comes to Riga City Council elections with a promise – with a new promise! – ensuring transparency and the rule of law for voters in public procurement. Then follow the vote on this request, because in this request the story will be about the rule of law and openness in public procurement. Let's take specific things, move on to specific purchases. One of the first mask purchases that were made was with GP Nord; it was concluded on 17 March (and here the details are important – follow them... Both dates and volumes)... On 17 March – for a million mask (price – 55 cents) and 100 thousand respirators (for EUR 3,01)... So in general, the contract for almost a million has been concluded with a company that has never had anything to do with it – with a company whose turnover in 2018 has not been any at all, there is no tax paid; taxes paid in 2019 – EUR 10.48 (I might have tried to make a mistake). So with such a company – it's with this company! – a million worth of contract was concluded. Aldis asked, where did this company get the money to perform such a contract, to make such a transaction? Very simply – the contract provides for prepayment. The answer is, too, how the money comes up. The question – which motivated the government to choose exactly this businessman... under exactly the following supply conditions... and pay a further advance? Well, it must be the usual, accepted action; it must be the usual action by officials to conclude such transactions. Perhaps they were attached documents... Documents where the certificate has been revoked, which has been forged... which is obviously counterfeit and which... The fact that it is a forgery has also been certified by the issuer of the certificate itself. Maybe they've been the test report of these goods, which have been done in a laboratory that can't be found at all... that such exists at all. What has led to this? When we start asking the officials in charge, the Ministry of Health, if they've ever found out... on the authenticity and validity of these documents, it replied that... Both the Minister for Health and the head of the National Health Service (NSD) have repeatedly said that the supply of masks and respiratory equipment is taking place... the delivery is subject to certificate checks. How they have happened, how it has been possible that such certificates, which... It is obvious that these are counterfeits, that they contain inconsistencies, which it has not been able to tell. What was said was that a new certificate was submitted on 16 April. What's interesting – delivery took place... The biggest delivery for these million... Almost 900 thousand masks were delivered already on March 28th. Then, on April 16, some new certificates appeared... This is – cargo has already been delivered in Riga for a long time. But this certificate, too... The laboratory is not available in the Chinese list of laboratories. Moreover, this manufacturer's declaration of conformity of the load is only due to 31 March at all. The question – how on 29 March... On March 28, in general, this product was able to cross customs? What's interesting – then there were all kinds of advertising films about how well it was and how correctly it was. But what is interesting – in this film, when you see their packaging (it is filmed as the Director of the National Health Service opens it)... there is a completely different producer than the one recorded in the contract. Go on. Checks. They're telling... Since it is in no way possible to justify that the certificate is in any way linked to the purchase, that the certificate even justifies... attests the conformity of the goods, it is said that in parallel there has been some on-the-spot checks where... tested mask air resistance – one of the basic parameters. Thereafter, it is communicated already later, well after that, however, certified laboratory tests have been carried out and the results of such tests have been positive. But for some reason the Ministry of Health has still avoided submitting them. Perhaps because of these results, it could become apparent that very different masks have actually been tested. Because those who initially... The test results they talked about... These masks, which have been tested here even on the spot for air resistance, were about 12 to 15 pushes of air resistance there, but in the certificates (which are then spoken) there appears with a layer... There is 50 final resistance. This is a completely different quality, another level of product, which clearly indicates that they are two different products that have been tested. And now what you are trying to do is try to hide this, perhaps not only fraud, but damage that was caused, putting the whole society at risk... masks which are not of adequate quality. It's about one purchase. Very short. We're going through some other interesting details about other purchases. Go on. A procurement that takes place... is concluded on 9 April. Two interesting agreements are already being concluded under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence. On 9 April one is concluded with the Singaporean company ADDI Trading PTE Ltd for one and a half million masks and the other is concluded with the company Titled. ‘ Titled” so that you know to understand – it has no connection with this business at all. It's an advertising agency. It concludes an agreement on... So two contracts are being concluded with them. So one is – 90 thousand masks for the price of 45 cents for the mask and 50 thousand respirators for 2.9 euros for the respiratory device (the 10-day delivery), then – one million respiratory chargers for the 14 days for 2.9 euros... Go on. But we're coming back... We will return to Singapore company ADDI Trading PTE Ltd from the beginning. So, April 9. Until then, according to the information provided by the NSA itself, the delivery of masks... there are already four contracts (i.e. with GP Nord, Lauma fabrics, Sun pharmacy and other... ) by a total of more than 8 million masks. From them until 9 April, about one and a half million were delivered, and then... On 9 and 10 April more than a million masks were delivered. However, we are urgently concluding these two interesting contracts. One with Singaporean company ADDI Trading PTE Ltd for a delivery of one and a half million masks for a price of 66 cents for a mask... What's interesting is those documents, if we look again. Therefore, documents are attached alongside them. What are the attached documents? That was one of the things I called for that it would be worth following. Thus, these delivery documents (shipment report) show that the cargo has been inspected by an inspector named Kings Kong. ( Laughs) On the other hand, the only certificate contained in the delivery documents does not demonstrate the quality of the masks concerned, but only the information contained in other documents complies with the requirements of the European Directive. If we look at the mask test report attached to this treaty, then it's from the document... from a laboratory that is not found again, so – fake laboratories. Obviously, this test report has been signed by interesting inspectors – it is therefore happening in China! - Jack, Jean and Johnson. ( Laughs) What is more interesting – if you look at this document (test report) by clicking on the signatures or stamps contained in this document – they will be marked as separate objects. This means that it is a forgery, just a primitive forgery. Taken... the necessary signatures and the necessary stamps are simply affixed on the document. And it was elementary to reveal, even simply looking at it. That is why we rightly asked the question as to how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would then make sure that these documents were fit for purpose. From the beginning, they said that they had done it. When they started asking questions, as concrete, they started to tell them that they were doing it by attracting the Health... Inspector... an inspection representative. They were satisfied that the documentation of the goods supplied was in conformity with the regulations and that the supplier was required to keep the technical documentation in accordance with the requirements. As it was possible, I just told you. Obviously, documents are forged, inadequate laboratories, no other documents. The question is why it was so urgent to deliver these masks, buy them. What is significant is that on 9 April a contract was concluded with Singapore company; on 10 April the masks were delivered. Hopa! There was an urgent need. If it was a rush that was very necessary for medical staff, why were these masks still shared in schools, now closing the exams. And why... Why, if everything was all right, if they were convinced that these masks were appropriate and all the certificates were in order, why were these masks sent again to the laboratory on 19 May? These masks or other – we do not know this already, because these test results, about which it is said to be all right... For no reason do the officials avoid getting acquainted with them. They generously offer all sorts of counterfeit papers, documents, but these true ones are not meant to be given. It's about this one procurement. Let's take a second purchase of the titled. It's really... It looks like a detective. So this other, which was also urgently concluded with the advertising company for the supply of respiratory equipment. As I said, this amount, which in principle consists of a million respiratory chargers and an additional nearly 100,000 masks... 90,000 masks are divided into two parts. As I said, the first one was to be delivered within 10 days, and then within 14 days. Here is very interesting, from the beginning one manufacturer is presented, documents are indicated that seem to be... on the basis of which this contract is concluded. Obviously, they are all Chinese. Test reports, which are in both contracts, actually both masks and respiratory... both are only respiratory. It is said, however, that... The Treaty says that this CE certificate is attached, but in fact we do not find it in the Treaty, we have not seen it. What's interesting is that if we look at these test reports that are annexed to the treaty, then they don't match what these test reports are. They are other producers whose certificates are attached. In time, those responsible for this procurement – the State Defence Military Objects and Procurement Centre – demand to invent foreign affairs... This Agreement may be signed by the Ministry of Defence. And that's what Paškevičs, Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, said. Next, this Protection... The National Defence Military Objects and Procurement Centre accepts this agreement, signs everything, although there are all documents in Chinese. When are we talking about several million worth of procurement – is it a reasonable approach to such procurement? Next, it's interesting... What happens next. The first shipment arrives on 20 April and the reception is attended by a representative of the Consumer Centre, who signs up and specifically writes how she adopts this adoption act. Inscription – the item was verified in person according to the documents attached to the contract, and all these documents were Chinese. The question is, the person who signed that everything is all right here and that she has verified that the product conforms to the documents, knew Chinese? Of course not. Moreover, she cannot make sure that these documents, which are attached to it, are in conformity with this contract in general, which is linked to the transaction. However, this was the basis on which this transaction was legalised. That's interesting, and that's... Interesting is when the next supplier comes... This big deal... We're talking about a million breathers. Of course, they are not delivered within the deadline, and it is the wish that this cannot be done on 24 April. Provision is made for this supply to be made before 5 May. On 1 May, the cargo is in customs, but the Consumer Centre rightly says: “We cannot accept such cargo because the supplier cannot prove that the goods supplied comply with those standards.” And they are again given this test report, which is issued to another manufacturer rather than to the item. On May 11, Ilze Viņķele and Krišjānis Kariņš come up with a hysterical statement – there is a lack of respirators, everything is about to come to an end! On 12 May, on the basis of this, Minister of Defence Pabriks writes a report to the Cabinet of Ministers that something needs to be done, something needs to be done. The Government shall meet in camera and decide to apply a simplified quality check to the acceptance of this cargo. No one knows what that means. The PTC itself does not know. But as a result, on 13 May this product is accepted and goes on. We asked the Consumer Centre, which was forced to accept this product. It is clear from these documents that the centre has indeed accepted it – there is a healthy... reservations written that there need it and that test... assuming that the test has been added but requires a laboratory test of the European Union... and so on. It is inconceivable whether it has indeed been adopted by the PTAC. We asked the PTAC for them to submit the documents on which this transaction was based. They say: “But it’s not our deal! We don't have these documents! You'll ask the Ministry of Defence... National Defence Military Objects and Procurement Centre!’ The centre says, "We don't have such documents at all!" Then the question – how did this product go through? Hasn't it been that the government has simply shelled through the interests of one businessman for... several million to buy something expensive, disproportionate and unwarranted. What is interesting – then, on 14 May, begins to amend the contract. That's... The product has already been delivered, it has already been accepted... Amendments to the Treaty started. I would like to call for my speaking time to be combined, for these five minutes to be added.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U16	So speaking time is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U17	So, May 14. The contract begins to be amended. What's interesting. When do they have all these questions – What is there with these certificates? What about these suppliers? – was commissioned, it turned out that in the contract, in the contract performed, there are already quite other producers (four producers for all), two other goods, other test reports. It's all acceptable. In Chinese... There's no contract... Let's say, there's no contract for all of this, nor... in those follow-up documents which have been signed. Perhaps so no one wants to tell us what was actually signed. Then there is talk – see these documents are all right! These documents are quite other documents which have nothing to do with the treaty or with those goods that were previously adopted. It is interesting that these documents, which are attached, are obviously in different qualities, each of which contains different types of these... There are anti-counterfeiting codes in China, they differed if. Then the question is – what will the government do? All this seems to me that the government has simply made the procurement of millions under special conditions for one economic operator under an emergency. We asked the Ministry of Defence to explain all this. Of course, the Ministry of Defence was unable to explain this. As a result... At the end... what they said – know, those documents have no meaning at all. Tell me, if there's no documents... Let's say, if the documents have no meaning, then why have you added them at all? Why were they even needed to close this deal? Maybe you could just gnaw it in your nose: take it at that price, and that's it. Whatever we want, we do it! Unfortunately, we were not allowed to receive answers to these questions because Mārtiņš Bondars, a member of the Minister for Defence and Minister for Health, offered that we should not listen... and to receive replies to questions relating to those irregularities, it is not necessary to submit the documents required that a vote may also be taken on the rejection of the request, which the panel did. I am now addressing my colleagues from the New Conservative Party. You have heard these facts. These are just a few of the facts that I could have read during this speech, there are still many, much more interesting. It can make sure that documents have been forged, inadequate, that procurement procedures have not been designed to ensure that the public has achieved the required results, but to win the necessary economic operators at inadequate prices... and so on. The documents show that this procurement procedure has been completely opaque and that it has not been possible to clarify these procedures... verify the legality and validity of this procedure. You explain to me... if you are going to vote against this request in this vote and do not give the Saeima the opportunity to consider it further in order to clarify the real circumstances of this procurement and how it has been done in the interest of it, then please explain to me whether the promises you have made to the Riga voters that you are trying to come to power in Riga to ensure transparency and the rule of law in procurement there are no actual misleadings to your voters, like “3 × 500”. I hope it's not that you're responsible that you're a man and a name. You are honest, courageous and wise, and you will answer for your words. If this is the case, today it is your duty to support this request before your constituents and give it further, because your voices will be decisive, what happens next – will we consider it in the Saeima, or will we have the opportunity to see how power has acted in this time of measure and plague? Have they really fought for the public interest, for public security or in reality, by using this emergency as a cover for themselves? I call on everyone to follow this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U18	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U19	Dear colleagues, To be honest, I do not quite understand why there are such fears of requests. Well, the particular request – whether the Prime Minister avoids or does not avoid providing true information. What could be the outcome of the review? If you avoid, show him the yellow card and say: “Come on, Karin, avoid! Don’t do that again!’ If you don’t avoid, say, “Karyn, you’re a bad guy! Continue to act as consistently and – let’s go!” But, seriously speaking, every request is an attempt to assess the potential or actual errors that have been made in individual ways. Naturally, the assessment of their errors is very important in order to work seriously and constantly on corrections to avoid them in the future. Because it is very important that we do it ourselves and not wait for there to be reproof from the OECD or the European Commission that we do not do it properly, as life requires, from people. And demand the truth. I would therefore call for this request to be supported, given that, to be honest, Karina's career will not be under particular threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U20	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U21	Honorable Latvian Society! In addition to what Ivars Zariņš said about facial mask purchases and related companies, I have to point out a few things, some details, which, very interestingly, do not know why, our law enforcement authorities do not investigate, although it is also clear to a normal observer, who is simply going to look in the registers. The first of those things is... so-called Singaporean company named... ADDI... Somehow it's called... These are, first of all, two: one is in Latvia, and the other is in Singapore, and that is, of course, an accidental coincidence. It is quite clear that this Singaporean company is the same Latvian doll that has made a mailbox company in Singapore, I emphasize – a mailbox company. And the state takes orders for the company of mailboxes. This is very significant, and it is taking place under the cover of the crisis, so that it cannot be verified. That's a question at all: how buying, spending taxpayers' money could be some kind of secret, a state secret or something else. Face masks are not atomic weapons. Face masks are not tanks. Face masks are those that put on the face and all of them see. And everyone in society, plus minus, knows and knows how much these masks pay, because you can check it on the Internet. So there's a big question, why the government needs to keep it secret. And to secretize the government needs it for one reason – to be able to steal again a little bit. There is no other reason. Anyone who has a little, even three classes, education understands this. The other thing is this other company titled, which produces some type of printing stuff, promotional booklets or something else. And there's a big question here – the owners of this company are connected with the New Unity, with the New Unity? By Development/About!Is that so? Or maybe they have previously made any campaign for Development/About!Is that so? That is a very big question. A company whose annual accounts we see that this mask transaction is the greatest success of their lives. Never before... never had such a turnover for them, all years taken together. And that's another thing. Third case – from the point of view of the protection of national interests... What you have to say. It is very interesting that we very much need to import dubious quality masks with dubious documents of origin from China because of dubious urgency. But we cannot order them to our local textile producers – Lauma, Rosme and elsewhere. I'll tell you why we're not doing this here. Because then you can't steal it, because you can't charge you, because then you won't get the bribes, because it will be much easier to check it out, because these companies, which work in Latvia, which are large textile companies, will not deal with such fraud. And that's the only reason! In fact, all these purchases show that our government, which I do not doubt, will soon fall if they continue with their... to their political space research groups to be able to return to some paid tourist trips... This case shows that the government is not interested in supporting the local producer, this government is interested in quiet nospert. And that's a fair answer, so it's all right. Because if everything were fair, Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš and the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele would take part in the Saeima meeting today, and with all the documents we bought the best at the lowest price, we worked fast, we are all supersatisfied – medical doctors, society – we are the best ministers and prime ministers ever! Then we shouldn't be ashamed. But when there is something to hide, and when there is something to be ashamed of, it is clear that you have to hide everything, then you can't show it, then you can't talk about it! Then it tells serious faces that we will have another danger so that we can buy something from China again! And another thing that is very important. There is no scientific, clinical evidence in Latvia that society in general... such face masks would be necessary. Nothing proves to be the case! These are political decisions! And what scares me – I'm afraid of the simple thing that our government doesn't really care about human health... and to a lesser extent to ensure that people are educated. We don't care about opening schools in the autumn, we don't care about getting the best medical help. We take care of butaphoric, always and everywhere stories about success stories. Last night, we were told what the success stories are, that no one is sick here and so on. It takes one day, and full media is with it – yesterday and today – that immediately gets it all closed again. And that's what you call a success story – that people lose their job, that people get worse health, that they leave Latvia?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're just stealing, brutally stealing even at the expense of someone else's accident! I would understand – because every government of Unity probably wants to steal a little – I would understand that if you were to do it in a way that would be good for all the others, there would be some benefit for society as a whole, but you are doing it at the expense of the disaster of other people, you are doing it at the expense of people losing their income. You are doing it at the expense of people to leave Latvia again. It's all your policy! I do not know why you want to empty Latvia. I don't know why you have to steal even in such things. You and the OIC are not enough? You're not enough with four billion then? Now Karin says he has a big money – another four billion – you need another four billion? When do you have enough? When are your pockets full? At what point? Give me the number! Maybe... Maybe the whole nation of Latvia can meet you... that number. How much do you need? We could give you that number, and go home with that number. And let the country develop, let it finally live in a country where politicians do not steal and then do not hide the purchases of mailboxes from secret documents. It would be cheaper for our society. That would be better for our society. I therefore call on our Prime Minister and Minister for Health, including the Minister for Defence, who is taking part in this whole field... Very interesting, you have paid PR for over half a million, so you there praise your pianist Rajevski. And that “Deep White” that serves... whose husband had been a Advisor to Pabrik. Let them explain to the public. Tell me your fair price. When do you have enough? You've been, I'm sorry, stole from the people for a long time, we'll throw you up. If you need billions, let us also throw billions as you personally need, and go home to the power of those who will not finally make purchases that will support the local entrepreneur who will make transparent, who will not be afraid of open public procurement, who will try to buy cheaper and better quality, who will not make a farce with vebinaries in the Saeima sittings than anywhere in the world, and who will not talk about the other waves, in the hope that this entire stealing system will be able to continue. Prime Minister Karin, use at least that PR useful in our society so that we learn it on all television channels, in social networks, everywhere... Everywhere we learn, name the price, you're obviously not satisfied with the cinema Pioneer. But society as a whole is aware of all this, for years it has been seen. If someone tries to tell me they don't understand it and they don't see the law enforcement authorities... And then they obviously are not competent, then they obviously do not want or fear to investigate large-scale corruption cases. These things must be spoken openly, these are not things that should be ashamed of speaking or about which should be afraid of speaking, but an open language. How many years will we steal our country? We are ourselves. Then you will say that we are strong and powerful as the most dying country in the world? Are we strong and powerful as a country with the worst export performance even in the context of the Baltic States? We are strong and powerful that we have ports empty, but they work in Klaipeda. And in such a spirit for any area, starting from these purchases with mailbox companies. Simple answer. Why will I tell the post office? Why not a big, promising company? Why such expensive prices? And why was there such a need? Is that the urgency? Which statistics have confirmed this? What has been the basis for this? These are the answers that we want to hear from society as a whole. And it won't be enough for you to take a umbrella on TV or to give some sweet talk from the pub, as we've done well. Members of the Saeima receive hundreds and thousands of letters from people who have suffered as a result of your actions. Members of the Saeima receive calls where people cry that they have nothing to feed their children. Members of the Saeima are aware of the concern from their parents that they do not know what will be with education in the autumn. You're going to explore space now! Buy some more shit, I'm sorry. And you can also sue me for this name by the Mandate, ethics and application in the Commission calmly, but that is true. That's what you're doing. Why don't you love your people so much? Why don't you love your country so much? Do you think life will end after you? What's going to happen? Do you think you will be forever? ‘ The Latvian Road” thought that they would be forever. The People's Party thought they would be forever. And if the coalition of New Unity thinks they will be forever, I can answer you. There's nothing forever! In a material and secular world, everlasting is nothing, and neither will you be forever. Think about it! And a little... A bit of a conscience. A little bit. We're gonna throw you down, just stop stealing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U22	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U23	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2102-U24	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Ulda Augālis, Armands Krauze, Vital Orlova, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Krišāna, Ivana Klementjeva, Valeria Agešina, Edgars Kucina and Julia Stepanenko's request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš "On the avoidance of Prime Minister Kariņš to provide the requested information regarding purchases made by the executive power during the Covid-19 crisis"! Please, let's vote! On – 28, against – 55, abstained – 2. The request is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the agenda of the sitting. Time for notification. Honourable Members! Sunday's round, beautiful birthday was celebrated by our fellow Member, Inese Voika, and we welcome him! (Applause) Thank you. There's also a record of Members. It's done well. So I closed the sitting. The agenda for the meeting on 9 July 2020 will be discussed in 30 minutes at 11.50 p.m. Dear colleagues, I remind you again – come out, please... from this sitting and then register again!
