ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We will continue the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 23 November this year. On the agenda - second reading of the annual state budget and related draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission responsible Janis Cielen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U2	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We're going on. 19. is a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Dana Reizniece-Ozola. This involves changing the rates of micro-enterprises for businesses, craftsmen and service providers depending on the size of their turnover. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U3	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U4	Good morning, colleagues - coalition colleagues and opposition colleagues! We are continuing with the Microbusiness Tax Act. And indeed, this proposal is perhaps one of the most important, in general terms, in the concept proposed by Mr Dombrovskis and I, by changing the tax rates for micro-entrepreneurs depending on the scope of the micro-entrepreneurs and, consequently, the planned normal eligible expenditure, which would be applicable in each area. And both different rates of turnover and tax interest are applied from the size of the activity. Accordingly, a trader, including a producer and a farmer, would have a permissible turnover of 118 thousand euros per year for such a regime and a tax rate of 15 per cent; a craftsman - almost 49 thousand euros, the rate would be higher - 20 per cent; a professional service provider would also have a turnover of 48 500 euros and a rate rate of 25 per cent. The rate would increase to 40 per cent for all groups of operators above these turnover ceilings. As we mentioned earlier, both the size of the rates and the size of the turnover are appropriate for Latvia's situation, based on the example of France. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U5	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U6	Yeah, thank you. Good morning, colleagues! I ask for support for this proposal by Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and Dana Reizniece-Ozola, because it offers a segment of taxpayers that meets the requirements of modern times, and depending on which segment... and which the company is engaged in, it is precisely the tax rate in that case. In the case of segmentation, it is not only necessary to carry out control measures on the basis of analyses, and either to identify risks or to limit the company’s activities accordingly, but also to apply and find, through segmentation and analysis, the regime that best matches that of the company operating in this segment... and to set rates in line with the economic situation. Therefore, colleagues, I ask you to support this approach and this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U7	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U8	The 19th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - The proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! About - 25, against - 52, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U10	Proposal 20 received from Member Pimenova. This proposal also provides for a softening of micro-enterprises' tax rates - to replace 25 per cent by 15 per cent, to replace 40 per cent by 25 per cent, and to change turnover rates from 25 per cent to 35 per cent. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U11	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U12	Colleagues! I thank the rapporteur for the precise wording of my proposal. That is very brief. I propose that we really have a policy on the rate of micro-enterprises that would allow businesses to continue to operate and to make savings successfully before they cease to apply the micro-enterprises regime. That is to say, maintaining the rate of 15 per cent and raising the turnover from 25 thousand to 35 thousand euros, above which the tax rate on micro-enterprises is rising. In turn, above this turnover, apply only 25 per cent and not 40 per cent, contrary to what was adopted at first reading of the draft law. So up to 35 thousand - 15 percent, over 35 thousand - 25 percent. Turnover and rate is a crucial condition for the attractiveness or intimidation of the micro-enterprises tax regime. They are viewed by the businessman when he decides whether or not to become a micro-entrepreneur, so whether or not. Therefore, since the adoption of the Microbusiness Tax Act in 2010, it is these rules that have been the subject of a conflict between the supporters of the micro-enterprises tax regime and the opponents. So I call for support. Again: up to 35 thousand - 15 per cent, over 35 thousand - 25 per cent. These are figures (not to be heard.) ... to remain a micro-enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U13	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U14	The Commission did not support the 20th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U15	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U16	21) the proposal was received from a member of the Commission and not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - The Commissioner's Scratch proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U18	22. The proposal has also been received from the Member ratchet and has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - The Commissioner's Scratch proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U20	23. Proposal received from Members Dombrovskis and Dana Reizniece-Ozolas. The proposal proposes that micro-enterprises tax payers should reduce the amount of tax by 50 per cent in the first year of their operation, reduce the amount of tax by 30 per cent in the second year of their operation and reduce the amount of tax calculated in the third year of their operation by 20 per cent. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U21	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U22	Thinking about how to improve the micro-enterprises tax regime, to make it more suitable for small entrepreneurs who start up and who are active during such a period of flight, there are a number of cases that tax experts have also proposed to improve by analysing this tax regime and looking at how it has developed over the years. And one of the proposals is to take turnover into account when setting the corporate tax rate depending on the value of the goods or materials sold, because it is clear that if we apply turnover tax, service providers who do not have to buy goods or raw materials for their economic activity are much more advantageous, since each case, which is then sold with a higher value, naturally leads to a higher turnover. Thus, in reply to this comment, there was also a segmenting of the overall tax rate proposed in the concept according to the nature of the company’s activities. But the second comment and the proposal, with regard to modernisation and relevance to modern conditions, are more motivation for entrepreneurs in the first years of their operation, when financial resources are more difficult, but also less experience, giving them a kind of run-off period. And the essence of this proposal is exactly that. You have also seen in the past what tax rates and what our offer of segmenting companies was. The proposal then proposes that companies pay a lower rate of micro-enterprises tax than the general rule would have done in the first three years of operation. In the first year, the relief would be 50 percent, in the second - 30 percent and in the third - 20 percent. And then it would be a full rate for the fourth year. It would be like a missile principle: the lower its orbit, the more fuel it needs, i.e. the lower the tax rate for economic operators is to be paid. When they become self-sufficient, of course, they already pay the full rate. In turn, going beyond the turnover established for each business group or segment, the businessman would switch to the general regime. This would be a harmonious solution to the overall economic development. We call for this proposal to be supported. At the same time, it would be consistent with the objective of the law that we proposed yesterday, on which we had a very wide-ranging discussion, that the role of this regime is to support entrepreneurship, especially in the first years of operation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U23	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U24	Yeah, thank you. Decision-making, based on analysis and experience from other countries, is one way of ensuring the application of balanced and economic support measures. This proposal is to be supported, as it is based on an analysis of experience and the basic knowledge recognised in theory that during the initial period of starting a business, both an entrepreneur and his team are facing a number of difficulties and problems. And it is also during this period, according to statistics, that it is obvious that in the first year all... up to 90 percent of who starts business simply goes bankrupt and then does not continue... moving exclusively to the category of workers. And this instrument would directly help those who start business, and those who gain, as a result, an initial experience and also a desire to do business, to do so. Analogic tool by reducing various... various advantages and rates are also provided for in Lithuania. Lithuania even named this tool abbreviated as MB or Mercedes-Benz - the model that allows entrepreneurs to start their business with a breakthrough. Therefore, colleagues, please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U25	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U26	23. proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 53, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U28	24. proposal received from Members Dombrovskis and Dana Reizniece-Ozolas and proposes the introduction of a single economic transaction account. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U29	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U30	Colleagues! We already have about 10 years of experience with the micro-business tax regime. And it really is a simple tax regime that encourages people to start their own business, even if it is relatively easy to leave it or finish it if there is a failure. One of its advantages is not only a relatively low and attractive tax rate, which, in my opinion, is also suitable for smaller entrepreneurs, especially those who are just starting their economic activity, but its accounting is much simpler than other regimes, and it is one of the key elements why other countries have also assessed this regime as a good example and are even trying to repeat it. As I said, Poland is one example where a similar regime is also introduced, but at a much lower rate than we currently have in the micro-enterprises tax regime. And to destroy this regime, colleagues, really means that part of the entrepreneurs will stop their economic activity at all or will end up in some way underground, choosing the usual SIA, paying the minimum wage and possibly also part of the wage envelope. The second option is what the employees of the State Revenue Service themselves predicted when the concept of this tax change was discussed in the government, that to a large extent micro-entrepreneurs will probably re-register as entrepreneurs, also indicating only the amount of the minimum wage, but other economic activities will most probably not be presented, especially in cases where the service will be provided to individuals, which is very difficult to control from the State Revenue Service, and this is similar to that with windmills to fight and try to catch the wind. Simple administration, as I said, is the key. That is exactly the direction that we should think about if we want to improve the small business tax regime, and the transaction account is, of course, one of the ways in which we can simplify this administration. In fact, this Article determines, colleagues, how the transaction account should function. This example is indeed taken from the experience of Estonia. I understand that the government has provided us with years to develop details, technical solutions for how a transaction account could work, and only from 2023 entrepreneurs can expect such a solution, but in fact, if we look at the experience of a neighbouring country, that mechanism, at least at the level of the law, looks relatively simple - the company is opening a transaction account, from the turnover on that account, and the amounts that the credit institution enters into that account, reserve the amount of tax due and, within the prescribed time, transfers it into the tax account of the respective Treasury. We could obviously even make it even simpler in a way, because the public purse is also moving to a single tax account, which now facilitates administration. You don't have to try to calculate how much money should be diverted in each of the different... the corresponding tax accounts. I call for this article of the bill to be supported... the offer. I think that it will also be in any case (even as I said, isolated from the rest of the concept)... I think that a good guide for the government, if the government really, and you, fellow Members of the Saeima, intend to introduce a transaction account and you see that it is a good solution, then there is actually a proposal here to strengthen the operation of this transaction account in law. I call for a 'yes' vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U31	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U32	Yeah, thank you. I would also ask for support for this proposal and I will base it on the following arguments. The finance ministers, yes, change, but the officials of the Ministry of Finance - 99,5 percent - do not change. And it is the Ministry of Finance that is responsible for Latvia's Stability Programme, which was developed from 2017 to 2020 and published on the Ministry's website in 2017. The Section on Tax Guidelines 2017-2021 already provided for tax administration measures to be implemented at that time. Main of these are: introduction of an income account for small businesses; availability and quality of SRS services; revision of accounting requirements depending on turnover, status and type of activity; optimisation of administration of eligible costs of personal income tax. So already in 2017, the officials of the Ministry of Finance understood perfectly what is one of the tools... the instruments which could be offered to business. For unknown reasons, the officials of the Ministry of Finance were unable or unwilling to draw attention to the implementation of these measures. The main focus was on, and financial resources were required for, controlling, gardening and other measures that directly restrict taxpayers. But it is not possible to create a positive attitude towards tax payments, a positive attitude towards tax policy as such, if simplification is not offered in return for controlling and sanctioning instruments... administrative measures and, depending also on the scope and the segment of activity, those measures which facilitate the start of business. An account of economic activity, which is the work not done by the Ministry of Finance, needs to be introduced in order to make it easier and secure both work and income for people, especially in view of the economic downturn and the consequences of the Covid-19 economic crisis. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U33	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U34	24. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - The proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U36	25. The proposal has been received from the Cabinet of Ministers and establishes the procedure for submitting the micro-enterprises’ declaration of turnover. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U38	26. proposal received from Member Skrūdes. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U39	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U40	Good morning, dear colleagues! This proposal is linked to more favourable conditions for micro-entities, in particular as regards the keeping of accounts. If the taxpayer of micro-enterprises is wrong when making this declaration, he no longer has the opportunity to submit clarifications which would correct those errors in favour of the payer. That is why this proposal also makes it possible to make any clarification in the declaration, whether positive or negative, as regards the calculation of taxes, and not as it is currently intended that only those here... only those adjustments which further increase the payment of the tax. Well, really, this business situation is rather strange in the sense that there have also been situations for self-employed workers when the accounting error... Indeed, accounting is wrong, makes a wrong, wrong declaration, but with regard to, for example, the same social security contribution, there is absolutely no opportunity to adjust, even if it is obviously true, well, it is absolutely obvious to anyone that there is simply an error... Of course, the accounting officer is no longer responsible for anything, the accounting officer simply washes his hands, but a person has to pay for it, the State Revenue Service calls, writes, threatens that now we have such a number here and we have to have such a number. And no adjustments can be made to this erroneous declaration at all. That's not fair! This does not really contribute to a positive relationship between the taxpayer and the State. It's about... just like if you forgot your wallet somewhere, everything - you no longer have the right to recover this wallet, the content of this wallet is just as good - that's gone, it's gone. That principle, in my opinion, cannot be found in tax policy in general! Yes, I understand there is such a certain mistrust all the time, with every step that someone makes something up, cheats and tries to get off tax in every way, but... Well, colleagues, let's look at what is happening to us in the government: all kinds of procurement, all kinds of competitions, all kinds of taxes... all redistributives and so on, and so on. You set yourself a negative example and then wonder that perhaps someone is trying to really optimise taxes - this is, of course, not to be supported, but not to apply such an approach to every taxpayer, because you think absolutely everything is tax optimists and people who are trying to save some one unnecessary euro from tax. I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U41	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U42	Colleagues! This proposal is, well, even to say, a commitment to all those who, yesterday in the debate, were upset by the fact that the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service are becoming repressive institutions, because they should actually be much more friendly and more supportive of entrepreneurs. Indeed, this proposal provides that, if an economic operator is wrong, he is entitled to submit a clarification of the micro-enterprises tax return by correcting that error. What, fellow Members, you as politicians, the government that you have made is that this is a one-way relationship, a single-gate game. The first-reading amendments to the law provide that, yes, an economic operator may be corrected, but only if they are clarifications which increase the amount of tax due. Well, this, of course, is not a very favourable solution for entrepreneurs. What would be normal is, of course, if there is an error, then the clarifications are made regardless of whether they increase or decrease the amount of tax to be paid. This is the basis of Mrs Sprude's proposal, and I call on this proposal to be supported as well. It is logical, understandable and favourable for entrepreneurs, creating a balanced relationship between the State Revenue Service and the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U43	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U44	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good afternoon to all my colleagues! This proposal. In my opinion, this is very logical given the way the Saeima voted yesterday on these amendments to the law. And I think that the Saeima should set a good example in supporting such proposals - a good example of the fact that not only the errors made in terms of the budget can be positive - can also make mistakes that have been made by an entrepreneur, especially a micro-entrepreneur, which may, perhaps yet, allow him to leave a little more money in his mask. A great shave, I think, would in no way be of such a proposal. And so we could show that at least in some way we understand... I am also thinking of this proposal as well as of hardly any meaningful, coherent comment on the part of the applicants. They, I think, are no longer expected by the whole opposition. But if we look at this, let us compare this situation with the example that the government now sets... The government can be wrong and wrong in many places. We have seen over the last six months that, for example, the same masks that do not meet any criteria are being bought in completely inadequate form and procurement is being made in a very dubious way. We also saw that the Constitutional Court intervened in the work of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, and the Procurement Monitoring Bureau intervened in the procurement of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which was about... much more to fix... whether or not in excess of the amounts laid down in the first subparagraph. And there didn't even follow any kind of apologies, nothing... none of these cases. Everything was said to it... There were not even any meaningful comments at political level on these situations. Everyone just excuses that there is a crisis. And in the case of VARAM there was not even any crisis, there simply lived further, as if nothing had happened. In my opinion, these are things where public administration has to set some example, and recognising an elementary apology or error would be the absolute minimum. That's what we're... and Mrs Sprūde has offered, it is that if you see some mistake, then the micro-entrepreneur can also make a correction. What the government proposes with these amendments... The government proposes these amendments... The only possible error... if you admit an error, it is that you agree to pay more in taxes. I think there will be few micro-entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs who will run to the State Revenue Service and tell you that, I am sorry, I was wrong to pay a tax of EUR 200 more. This, I think, is an example... Well, it's going to be, but I think it won't in any way motivate entrepreneurs... such an attitude by the State will not motivate people to become entrepreneurs, nor will the entrepreneurs really be more careful to keep track of their accounting data. And this proposal really aims to build a normal dialogue between the State Revenue Service and micro-entrepreneurs - so that these rules of the game are the same. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U45	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U46	Yeah, thank you. It should be understood that it is not difficult to make mistakes in accounting because legislation is very complicated, fragmented and very often changing. The taxpayer therefore needs to maintain a strong enough team to ensure traceability for all changes made to the legislation by the legislator... you and me, my colleague. And I believe that allowing a company, a taxpayer, to correct errors is one way of accepting and saying, yes, we can make mistakes, so we also allow you, if you made a mistake, to correct the error. Another important thing that can be said is that - no - it is possible to abuse error. Then the answer is as follows: the State Revenue Service institution under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance is one of the... at the highest level provided by analytical software and analytical programmes, as well as human resources, which should learn to quickly select and, by segmenting taxpayers, exclude from circulation those who abuse any of the legislative options. Another important point is that the legislator is also responsible for all the changes proposed and implemented. And one of the areas of responsibility is in the past even... the positively assessed tax reform, which set a zero rate of return for reinvestors, but was very complicated by the progressive regression of personal income tax. The innovations led to thousands of people who were indebted to the State. And they owe the state not because they have been mistreated, but because of legislative changes. In the previous period, I offer to amnest these people for tax debts. Unfortunately, the Saeima’s amnesty was not attributed to these people. And for that reason, currently (it will also be in future legislation packages on personal income tax) the State Revenue Service has provided for automatic payment of tax debt and non-reimbursement of personal income tax in cases where people have incurred debts related to previously implemented tax reform. I ask for support for this proposal because it is more favourable for the taxpayer and allows him to correct his error. If his error is abusive, then I think that four thousand officials working in the State Revenue Service, with modern analytical tools and with a modern, modern structure, will be able to exclude unscrupulous taxpayers from circulation in a very timely and complete manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U47	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U48	Colleagues, I have to agree with my colleague, Mrs Švekova, that the State Revenue Service really has a very good analytical, technical provision, it also has a good human resource, but what could be improved is a human resource. That's a little derogation. But, colleagues, if you do not support such a provision, so that its relationship between the country and the taxpayer is much less equal, then it is indeed necessary to give very serious consideration to the proposals that we have already proposed to you in the context of the community law, also in the context of the analysis of the situation with the soft pay. The late payments were paid to entrepreneurs after difficult, hasty rules of the game, the amount of which was... The amount of work was large for the State Revenue Service, and the State Revenue Service itself then, in public as well as in private negotiations with the entrepreneurs, who were later required to pay the cut-off benefits, said that they had made a mistake and, in some cases, unduly paid the cut-off benefits. The entrepreneur received this payment in good faith and then, when the money had already been spent (and this funding had already been granted to the employee rather than to the entrepreneur), it had to be repaid to the entrepreneur, especially in a situation where the crisis had not yet taken place... and the lack of working capital for almost everyone is currently observable, with the exception of perhaps some high-tech sectors, which may derive from the community's time. In such situations, it should also be stipulated that if the State Revenue Service erred, they may correct their error, but only for the benefit of taxpayers, it would be an equivalent relationship, then it would be an equal treatment. Otherwise, as I said, there is a game in one gate. I really call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U49	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U50	Colleagues! The fact that we have so often changed the rules of the game has really encouraged several entrepreneurs to review their possibilities to operate and pay taxes in Latvia, because, as we know, also... Well, talking to a number of people who have already tried their business opportunities in other countries, such as Spain... An example is that if in Spain you open your business (and it is possible to do it quite quickly), then you don't have to worry that the government every year or, I don't know, every... every third year, try to change something in the mode you've counted on when you start your business, everything is stable. And stability is actually the best - the best! - what government can do in general for business. Yes, Spain has high taxes, but people know that they will have nothing to change, they will not have to fly, they will not have to run to an accountant, go on courses, in countless courses, how to pay this tax, how to calculate this tax. They have calculated everything very well. They are aware of their responsibilities towards the country. They work and have calculated how they can earn for themselves, feed their family and remain honest with the country. It's so simple. It's so easy! And we still cannot do this by changing the rules of the game every year. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U51	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U52	The complexity of the tax system is precisely why this proposal is local and would be very welcome. It was also read in the press that the responsible commission, looking at this draft law, was also recognised by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima that all these tax rules are very complex. And that's definitely what it is. Error is natural. And in this case, these mistakes... errors - because the side effects are reflected in the businessman's possible follow-up from one... One option proposed by the government when it comes to error... recognise the error and the SRS will take it into account only when it is paid more. The second is what Mrs Sprude offers, too, this second direction. Because now it happens that if the country needs something, then there's the big state machine that can turn to this little bread baker. But at the moment when the bread baker has made a mistake and wants to get something back, the bread baker remains alone against all the large state apparatus, and not only the state apparatus, but also the law will be on the side of the State Revenue Service, not on the side of the bread baker. Colleagues! Let us support the bakers of bread, let us give them an opportunity to cooperate in good faith, I wouldn't say the word "fight"... in good cooperation with the State Revenue Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U53	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U54	Good morning, colleagues! I also strongly call for this proposal to be supported, and I will try to explain why too. Those situations, where action or responsibility is not symmetrical from the taxpayer's and State Revenue Service's point of view in tax collection, have already been discussed in the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima many times, looking at other laws, where similar situations also appear, as well as in this particular situation. Viktors Valainis has just mentioned that many of the norms of the law are complicated enough, and sometimes they can be interpreted differently. And what happens in a situation where we have this asymmetry - that can only increase the declared amount, but there is no possibility of reducing it. Well, then, logical behaviour on the part of business people would be that if there are interpretations with some, let us say, tax rules... application of the rule, the taxpayer first presents in the declaration the most advantageous, least expensive amount of payment, because he keeps in mind that if the SRS indicates that he has applied the wrong rule, he will legally have the opportunity to clarify it and not punish him. If, on the other hand, he has immediately shown himself the most unfavourable option, then there will be no opt-out and no chance to replay these numbers. And then the question is: will this increase the administrative burden or reduce all the work that the SRS has to do? I don't think so! I ask you to think about these things, because we are already interested in it, however... both the legislative provisions should be interpreted precisely, and so that the solution can be as equitable as possible for both parties in situations where there is still some room for interpretation. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U55	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U56	Good morning, dear colleagues! I had already thought that one of the political leaders of the Ministry of Finance would also comment on this proposal, but I guess we will not expect it, so I will take the opportunity to comment on this proposal, which is why it should not be supported, of course, by a very strong demagogy on the part of the opposition. So if someone has read this proposal at all - there's... it shall begin with the words ‘after the expiry of the time limit laid down in the fifth subparagraph’. And the thing is that I already understand, of course, that none of the previous speakers is likely to have been micro-enterprises. I've had it. And so there's a very simple system in this case. So now it's Article 5... namely, the fifth part, which is referred to in the version already supported by the Commission, provides that... and I quote: ‘The micro-enterprises shall have the right to specify the micro-enterprises tax return no more than twice for the reference quarter during the month following the date laid down in the second subparagraph.’ So this means that after the deadline for lodging the declaration has expired, the declaration must be submitted for each quarter by the following month... For example, on January, February, March - to be submitted by 15 April, and then there is still a month in which you can change the declaration twice as much as you think. And after the month in the middle of May has passed, John is already approaching, then, as the current version provides, after the time limit set in paragraph 5 of this Article, only such clarifications as to increase the amount of tax due are entitled to be submitted. And there's a very long time now in that sixth part of the current sixth part, it's an expansion. It is about not having to submit such clarifications as to reduce the amount of tax... the amount of the salary to be paid to the staff, paid in that quarter, for example, and so on. In this case, the version supported by the Commission simply shortens the current version, making it easier to read, because in fact, these micro-enterprises will not be able to have more than one employee. And that's why that article, too, is being... its part, the sixth part, is shortened. And it's absolutely misleading... As I said before, there is a right to correct the declaration within a month, as good as possible - forward and backward. It is absolutely misleading - to say that it will not be possible to correct it at all, or if it can be corrected, then only up. Anyone who has a micro-enterprise knows at the moment how the declarations can be corrected. I have also had time to correct the declarations. I have to say, I never had to fix it down. It has been necessary to correct up if it's forgotten in circulation... Well, the accountant had not received, for example, an invoice and therefore the turnover was actually higher in the quarter and had to be corrected upwards. And in fact, always within a month, if this has been the case... I don't remember exactly... Thus, the declaration was corrected. Always, 100 percent of cases, it was up, in my case. And also... It seems that once again there was a need to correct the declaration because there were problems with accounting. And then, of course, that correction was up. I would call for the public not to be misled and familiarized with the current wording of the law, so also with the fifth paragraph of the relevant article, which states that it is possible - and I even recommend - to follow the declarations made very precisely and correct them also down. So, for every quarter... At least one and a half months more time to correct the declaration as good as possible. Of course, good governance too... Unreasonably long time to correct declarations could be unreasonable. I therefore call in this case for the proposal to be rejected and not to listen to their demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U57	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U58	Good morning, colleagues! First. I would like to respond (Not to be heard.) ... Secondly. My proposal provides favourable conditions for people. It should not be forgotten that micro-enterprises - these are small people who may not have accounts - are not able to recruit an accountant. Those who do not even have education in the economy. Maybe they're bakers of bread, cake makers... the different people working in this area and using this tax regime. So I pray: be tolerant of these people! It must not create such conditions that, I apologise, there is one person against a large apparatus - against the State Revenue Service! When the State Revenue Service was wrong... was human error... Four thousand transactions... It was wrong... No, 55 thousand transactions... and the smallest figure was four euros, and everyone had to turn back, then it was all right! The machine works, the officials work, they get the salary - everything is fine! And when a man... man is usually wrong... Well, sorry, only twice can, to the third - then pays taxes more. That we understand is not demagogy. You have to pay. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U59	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U60	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, society! Once again, from a legal point of view, there is a bit to talk about here. In particular, Mr Feldman has forgotten one very important matter from the point of view of the specific proposal. There is a principle in the administrative process - the principle of proportionality - which must be applied every time. The restrictions imposed on an individual must be proportionate to the benefit to the State of imposing such restrictions. In particular, restrictions cannot be more drastic and powerful if they do not actually benefit. What Mr Feldman is talking about clearly and clearly shows that there is no explanation - either rational or emotional or practical - for the restrictions that the ruling coalition wants to impose at the moment. Every person can make mistakes, and we know how complicated the accounting system is in Latvia in general, the accounting that every businessman has to carry out. It's a whole "space science"! And often even the State Revenue Service itself does not understand how this accounting is to be done. It is so complex in the territory of the Republic of Latvia, and therefore everyone can make mistakes (even the Member Kaimiņš, for example!) . And that's why a person needs to be given the opportunity to correct such mistakes because it can't be... Indeed, I agree with Mrs Sprude that there cannot be a situation where a person cannot make mistakes and correct his mistakes, but the state can make mistakes there, correct as many times as he wants, and so on. This is neither proportionate nor legal, nor correct. We came to a very clear and clear conclusion yesterday within the framework of this same law, discussing other proposals, that the country cannot create a bureaucratic system that makes people more difficult. On the contrary, the purpose of this law... As we remember, it was the first... One of the first proposals we discussed and we had a long discussion, and Mr Feldman also discussed... So the aim of this law, proposed by the ruling coalition, is to reduce the administrative burden. The aim of this law, which we are discussing, is to reduce the administrative burden! At present, the administrative burden is not being reduced but is being increased by regulating the issue. Such an offer from the ruling coalition is not in line with the purpose of the ruling coalition itself. The proposal is therefore absolutely logical and meets this objective of reducing the administrative burden. What does that mean? This means to come to business as far as possible; to respect reasonable logic, to carry out actions arising from the principles of administrative procedure, in particular from the principle of proportionality and the principle of legitimate expectations. In particular, to assess in each specific situation whether an economic operator exploits such an instrument... or it's really relevant... the relevant activities have been... Well, I don't know... or human error. We will therefore support a very rational, logical proposal, come to business and reduce the administrative burden in line with the objective set by the Microbusiness Tax Act! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U61	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U62	Yeah. I only want to reflect on the recognition that declarations of preference can be corrected as much as I want and whenever I want... Well, it's the purest demagogy! The taxpayer can only correct the declarations and correct them when he has actually made mistakes. And for ordinary workers, you can do this for three years... back, except only for the annual report, where there is... the income statement of the undertaking concerned, which may not be adjusted accordingly. That is, the legislator has envisaged separate... separate... as... an individual tax on an individual basis. And reference to Article 5 of the law on micro-enterprises' regime... tax... The purpose of this article, when drafted and applied by the legislator, was to establish anti-avoidance mechanisms to ensure... in fact, during the period when it was supplemented, it was intended to prevent the retroactive presentation of employees in a company, a micro enterprise. And it was at the time when this instrument, which micro-enterprises... used several companies dealing with construction... construction work. Thus, the big merchants fragmented their business and hired sub-contractors, who used the labour force without registration. But this offer... This facilitates the possibility and says that the taxpayer could correct the declaration not only on the amount of tax increases but also on the amount of tax reductions... amount... the state budget. I therefore believe that this is balanced and that it is acceptable. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U63	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U64	Thank you, Mrs Mourniece, for giving me the floor. There is another specific part of the administrative procedure law which must be applied each time when assessing what may be, which may not be done by a private person, including an economic operator, i.e. whether the actual conduct of the State concerned or the conduct of the institution (and, as the case may be, decisions taken by the State or the institution) is generally necessary in a democratic society in order to protect the rights of other members of society, democratic facilities, public security, well-being and morality. In the administrative process, it is called the principle of a democratic system, and such a principle must be applied to the tax collection regime, since the tax collection regime is an administrative process. And then the question arises: how are the rights of others violated? How could the theory in general... How, from the point of view of legal theory, could the rights of another person be violated if we give the entrepreneur the opportunity to correct the declaration not only up but also down? There is no legal argument against it. On the contrary, such a regulation does not violate, but improves the rights of other actors in this democratic system, because they have exactly the same opportunities. And that's right. There cannot be a situation where you can only pay more taxes; there must be a situation where you can also pay less taxes. This is already too much tax burden for entrepreneurs in our country. From an administrative point of view, it is only right that an economic operator can also fight for lower taxes. This comes from the point of view of the rule of law, from the principle of proportionality, from the point of view of a democratic system, and ultimately from the point of view of legitimate expectations. The State Revenue Service can also count - more, less - in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U65	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U66	In the Commission, proposal 26 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U67	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - The Commissioner's Scratch proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 58, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U68	27. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola. The proposal proposes to change the system of distribution of micro-enterprises tax by extending it to 70 per cent - state social insurance mandatory contributions, 30 per cent - personal income tax. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U69	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U70	Colleagues! One of the reasons why it is planned to raise the tax rate and introduce a number of other restrictions on micro-entities is the social security argument, saying that a large proportion of micro-entities are not sufficiently socially secure. We have already mentioned the figures, namely that, in fact, a much higher number of employees, not fully insured, are working in the general tax regime - there are about 180,000 people in the general tax regime - while the number of people with less social security than the minimum wage is about 35,000. Data from the State Revenue Service show that in the first half of this year the average salary (net) received by people working under the micro-enterprises tax regime is 518 euros - in fact, it is even more than the minimum wage, which is planned for next year, much more. One of the good proposals at first reading is... it has been done by the government (and I think it should have been done a long time ago!) - restriction has been removed... The EUR 720 cap on pay, which I think has also been one of the reasons why people working in this regime are less socially insured because... When we changed tax rates a few years ago and increased the proportion of social contributions paid... from the total rate... 80 percent, then... One, in my opinion, would be to allow those working in this regime to pay higher wages. At the time - a little over a thousand euros... If the corresponding wage had already been paid for micro-enterprises, then the person would have been fully socialised. Unfortunately, the government and the majority of colleagues at that time did not support this average... They also wanted to make this regime as attractive as possible at the time. Their idea was that if you have already chosen to work under the micro-enterprises tax regime at all, then you have to be a baby, you have to get little and not to earn more. You want to make more of it - go to the general regime. We are, in this way, actually for ourselves too, now, partly because we have cut into a foot: we have not allowed these people to increase their social security. Now this error is being corrected. And fortunately too, during the course of the readings, the government has fallen behind and retained the following proportion of 80 per cent and 20 per cent, which is an essential part of the micro-enterprises' tax rate being shifted to compulsory social security contributions. Our proposal is to maintain this proportion around the same, with 70 per cent shifting to social contributions, 30 per cent to personal income tax. This proportion has been taken into account in the package with the proposal that... both increase the turnover allowed for micro-enterprises in the tax regime (depending on the type of activity) and remove the limit on the remuneration that can be obtained under this regime (of course, the turnover is different - it is already a natural restriction) and increase the rate. I call for this proposal to be supported. This is, of course, part of our conceptual proposal for modernising and improving the micro-enterprises regime.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U71	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U72	Thank you, Madam Murniece, for her name. This proposal is, of course, part of the overall package of proposals that has been tabled, and there is less and less here - less and less! - remain within the framework of all the alternatives submitted by this common opposition. But the fact that here, in this proposal... Why should this also be supported by taking away from this overall package? It is precisely because of this distribution. 30 per cent of personal income tax... I think in the context of this budget, which... outside this law is being directed... That 30 percent... personal income tax... Deviation from this tax... 30 per cent... be in the right place. The proportion currently proposed is as follows: 20 per cent. It doesn't differ much, but yet... If we see that personal income tax accounts for the majority of municipal income (more than three quarters of municipal income is directly from personal income tax!) , then this proposal could even slightly improve the situation in which there are municipalities at present. I think all municipalities would only be happy (whether it is a large or a small municipality!) In order for some increase in taxes to enter their budgets, especially in this situation, where this budget provides for a reduction of 90 million for municipal budgets. This situation is very critical for all municipalities that are further away from Riga, especially in Latgale. The cuts in municipal budgets are unfortunately more than four per cent for most Latgale municipalities. That is, of course, even great - even big! - create budget deficits for municipalities. For one thing, it was about... around a million, and it was created by removing all the functions that could be the new functions that the municipality could carry out from next year... By rejecting all this, by rejecting all new projects, only providing basic functions... there is still a budget deficit. In no way does this budget even try to address it. However, with this proposal, which would not change the total revenue of the budget (it would only change in one small tax... only to change the distribution of the budget) could even slightly improve the situation of municipalities, I think. The sub-committee of Latgale for Human Rights and Public Affairs had gathered together (I have information about it), but it was not far from being able to solve the problems of Latgale municipalities. As Mr Kazinovsky said in one of the debates, the Minister of Finance had no time... did not find time to join this sitting. And if we are talking about solutions, this is one small solution (at least a small one, but a solution!) , which you colleagues could support. This could improve the situation of municipalities. This ratio... Let me remind you once again: the currently proposed is 80 against 20. What the opposition colleagues are offering is 70 against 30. I therefore call for support for this proposal - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and Mr Dana Reizniece-Ozola's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U73	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U74	What is this proposal about? Mr. Valaiņš correctly pointed out that he wanted to reduce the part of the tax that would be passed on to the social insurance of the person concerned... for the municipalities. And if the version currently supported by the Commission is that 80 per cent of the EUR 100 that has been paid into taxes goes to social insurance (in my opinion, however weak this budget may be, it is the budget... One of the objectives that goes beyond the budget is to increase social protection!) and only 20 per cent would be personal income tax (in accordance with current laws, income from this tax is shared - it is paid into both the state budget and the municipal budget respectively), then I am not surprised that the CEO of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia Mr Valaiņš is speaking in the debate not about people, but about the fact that he wants the municipalities to be happy and happy. I think that this budget is not about making the municipalities happy and happy... and where further mention is made of Latgale, where there are also these two large municipalities, which are members of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia, - Rezekne and Daugavpils - which are managed by those who... Well, let's say, those that I can call a state maybe unfriendly forces. And now there is a question that is also being answered: why has the Social Democratic Dombrovskis even put forward such a proposal? Social democrat Dombrovskis, if he really were a social democrat and not a certain lobbyist of particular interests, would have to submit a proposal that the entire tax paid at 100 per cent is actually paid to each person's social insurance so that he has more benefits, would have to... accrued pension, would have health insurance and so on. But no, he put forward a proposal to reduce this social security for people! Then the question is: what is the point of paying taxes at all if that main objective of achieving better social security is not achieved? This is one example: in general, the quality of the proposals that the opposition has put forward. Because one thing is to submit... I'm trying to be objective... One thing is to make constructive proposals that can be taken into account... And also, hopefully... Even if the Ministry of Finance, for example, Parliamentary Secretary Zakaistov, is currently not commenting on anything (I don't know if he even participates... Hopefully taking part in the sitting... It's morning, it's 10, as the clock shows... or later, he may be able to take into account in his work all this when drawing up some future draft laws that will be brought to the Saeima, he will be able to take these good recommendations into account, while the other thing is that when it comes to demagogic proposals that mislead the public and are, in fact, against the public interest, then there is nothing else left to talk about it aloud. I think that, in this case, it would be right to talk about it... to discuss the proposal if this amount would be increased, but not reduced, for social insurance. And in this case... Knowing the situation in the country, both this year and last year, when people were active in demanding more social insurance (this is, by the way, also very important for those social democrats... and left liberals)... and this year, too, when, in the context of the comma's crisis, social insurance still... Either, it or else... no matter how unpopular it is, it's still essential... essential... Well, let's say, the place is also in the area of discussion that people talk about at home and at work... That is why such a proposal is, to be honest, a surprise to me. And, of course, I am calling for this proposal not to be supported, because it is, in fact, against... Well, if the budget is too... raise social security for people, then... in fact this proposal is for the municipalities of Rezekne and Daugavpils or Ventspils and Jelgava... Mr. Valaiņš would, of course, be happy and happy. I call for this to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U75	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U76	Colleagues! Reflecting on what Mr Feldman said, first of all, I would like to remind you that the municipalities are those to which, in a situation where there is a lack of resources, the people turn, and the municipalities are the best to see and understand how the people in social difficulties can be supported. Local governments have a social function as one of the most important... the most important tasks, so there is nothing to ironize that someone is also making sure that local governments have sufficient funding! In particular, it should be noted that in the following year, a large part of Latgale municipalities' budgets will fall by four percent. And there are municipalities where this will be much greater than their social services budget throughout the year, and they will not be as able to provide their citizens with essential social services as they did in the past. Colleagues! And Mr. Feldman! Proposals to read and understand do not mean to write them and try to still interpret them publicly, completely loosening them from the rest of the context. I think that, in reporting on this proposal, I have explained quite well that this is part of the overall package, where there is a proposal for both a substantial increase in the rate and a substantial increase in the remuneration that can be paid to micro-entrepreneurs, and a substantial increase in the turnover with which the micro-entrepreneur can work. And there is a huge difference between whether the salary will be paid from a company with a maximum turnover of 25 thousand euros or from a company with a maximum wage of 118 thousand euros. If there is an opportunity to pay higher wages for micro-enterprises, then there will also be more tax and social guarantees. So don't deceive society and do a little math!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U77	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U78	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Well, to be honest, Krišjānis Feldman's words about the municipalities caused a harsh misunderstanding. The meaning of municipalities, their work, their functions and responsibilities is not clear to the end. It is, after all, divided what services the state provides to citizens! Local authorities are not public bodies or private institutions. The municipality is an elected institution by the local people. Municipalities have statutory specific functions, responsibilities. Their responsibilities are very many, and they are very important for citizens. But to provide these services, of course, there must be funds, budgets. And if this budget is not available or reduced, then these services are not fully provided to citizens. And for Latgale municipalities these funds are reduced significantly next year compared to other municipalities compared to Riga - more than seven percent compared to this year. That's a huge amount. This is a huge reduction. Go on. Another very important thing that has not been systematically addressed in our country is the standard of living of the population – rural, regional and Riga. The standard of living of the people in Latgale varies three to four times. What should the state do in this situation, as it does in other Member States of the European Union? There is no other way - they invest in funds, they provide various tax incentives, they provide grants. No such thing is present in Latvia. So, on the contrary... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. One of the means or instruments to be able to... Latgale municipalities are financed from the state budget much more than the rich municipality - it would be one of the instruments to smooth this uneven development. But the opposite is true. On the contrary! And then the question arises: what has Latgale done to the government, the state that they have to suffer... those residents living in the areas of Latgale municipalities? Whether these are major cities or smaller municipalities... What have they done? The European Union's Structural Funds as well... In the normal Member State of the European Union, regions are created directly to specifically support regions through the Structural Funds. Here, on the other hand, huge efforts had to be made to integrate the fourth objective of regional development into the National Development Plan. Perhaps it will be possible to achieve this objective by investing in regions if these administrative regions are set up at the border... That's the opposite - it's really... Someone wrote in comments that our government and government are similar to that of the Occupants... that it treats regions, fields - it's like colonial and... a hidden policy. I will never calm down until this injustice has been removed. This draft law on micro-enterprises tax... Unfortunately, this law will also be very painful for Latgale, because there are many micro-enterprises in Latgale. Once again, I call for no support, at least without voting in favour of these amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U79	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U80	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! After three... five minutes: a meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Let's see the appropriations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U81	Also Members' registration regime. Registration has taken place. Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U82	Dear colleagues, Let's keep sitting. We can see the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act”. Proposal No 27. Member Jūlija Stepanenko had applied for. Please log in again to the system. Yes, please, the name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U83	Dear colleagues, To continue the debate on this proposal, which sets out the distribution of the proportion of micro-enterprises' tax payments, I would like to maintain the idea that we started before the break and which was also commented on by Mr Feldman on this proposal on demagogy. I could say that demagogy could be when one Member of the Saeima, when preparing for the municipal elections, expressed his opinion very clearly on the elimination of the micro-enterprises tax, trying to tell his constituents that he is against it, but then, when the co-operative crisis comes up, the second wave, and when the budget debate begins, speaks quite differently. That could be demagogia. If we are talking about this distribution, it is, in my opinion, very justified by the fact that local authorities are constantly being attacked by the permanent fragmentation of income tax. So we see that this budget once again imposes additional responsibilities on local authorities, but there is no solution for them. If we talk about the fact that income tax simply goes somewhere in space and does not help people in any way afterwards, then it is not true: income tax, as Mrs Reizniece-Ozola also said, is the most important part of the municipal budget, which is actually very much involved in the implementation of the social function. And social functions are not only benefits for the poor and the poor, they are also kindergartens... kindergartens, and these are also the wages of kindergarten teachers, on which we discussed a few days before... whose coalition did not want to be moved to the national shoulders. So what are we talking about, honourable colleagues? It is very clear and clear here that local authorities should receive a higher share of income tax for micro-enterprises. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U84	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U85	I would like to express today my true understanding of why Mr Kazinovsky left the Group of the New Conservative Party. And to a large extent Mr Feldman has already pointed out that regional development, regional problems are absolutely indifferent to them. This is certainly not the case for Mr Kazinovsky. And his decision is completely understandable. But I would like to turn to Mr Feldman, the great guardian of social justice, who is so cleverly debating here how wrong it is to reduce this special budget. If you're so social... the special budget protector, then perhaps explain: how is it that you cut one per cent of this budget tax as a whole? If you already care so much about social security, it should have been maintained at the current level. And here you are... you have begun this discussion in a completely incomprehensible direction. Colleagues, as far as municipalities are concerned, yes, that is true: municipalities now have a large budget cut, and people are always the first place where they turn when they get to problems. And there are different issues - there is also the supply of wood to some low-income people who do not require much resources, but that is very important. And in this case, you deny these people. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U86	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U87	This proposal, of course, is not acceptable, because it is completely incomprehensible why most of the tax should be shifted to something other than the person's own social insurance, which is actually linked to the person himself, he cannot lose it over time. And in this case, it must be borne in particular in mind that that tax is what he is. Overall, yes, I have always supported a reduction in labour taxation, so the reduction in the VSAOI rate by 0.5 percent for the employers and the workers side by 0.5 percent, which means one percentage point, is better than any reduction in labour taxation. And, of course, it should also be mentioned that this move, for example, with the differentiated... the substantial increase in the upper limit of the margin of exclusion - that is not the case, let us say, the worst thing that could be done to reduce the tax burden and also to leave more money on people's hands. But in this case we are talking about micro-enterprises. We are now in the law of micro-enterprises, where taxes are already... Any paid... are small, and you want to deprive that person of its social guarantees rather than, for example, increase them. If someone thinks that micro-crafters... craftsmen and bread bakers called by you, and who... will be maintained now by the large municipalities of Rezekne and Daugavpils; it must be forgotten about it - it will simply not happen. Their municipalities must attract serious investment and end their lives in some other east-oriented reality. And then there will also be revenue for municipalities. No, I call for this absurd proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U88	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U89	Colleagues! A little naive really sounds Mr. Feldman's words and such faith, the belief that the social... social contributions are directly linked to the customer - that is not unfortunately so. Because, as we can see from the time of the crisis, the judgment of the Constitutional Court on the reduction of mothers' wages in 2010 - no... no social guarantees... No social insurance... no one can count on a person. Because the moment can come when a person is simply denied this social guarantee... and those people who calculated during the crisis that mothers' wages would remain to the extent that it was planned and embedded on the principle of legitimate expectations... It made them disappointed. Such a striking example from the 2009 crisis, which we all have already remembered very well and which we are also going to mention today, is that we cannot expect any direct attraction from these social contributions. I call for support, however. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U90	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U91	Colleagues and society! What seems very strange to me is that we are talking essentially in this bill about how to increase people's basically taxes, because all the opposition proposals are on the contrary: to reduce in order to maintain the basically existing level. And the position of power is absolutely clear: the destruction of the micro-enterprises tax regime will, by its very nature, increase taxation for people who are not already the most prosperous part of society. And that surprises me at a time of crisis, because in other countries, the governments are simply the same for people, just because they live or work in the country, regardless of the amount of tax they pay, actually all or a large part of it... grant benefits, the aid is paid in various forms to economic operators without, say, going to (not to be heard) ... automatic checks of these aid payments. But we are, in principle, in the opposite direction during the crisis. We are increasing taxes on micro-enterprises. And that seems completely absurd to me. Absurdy for the reason that also... Mr. Feldman is now the only one who has taken it... their bad role. And here, of course, tells God's signs of how people will be better off, that they will have to pay more taxes. But I would call on the coalition of power to name it as politicians... Well, there's one politician who's come up with this... It's Karin or Reir or Zakaistov or Feldman. There is one who has come up with this cutting-edge idea of abolishing the micro-enterprises tax regime. But it didn't come from the air. And even if it is referred to as a political compromise, for which it had to be offered in the ‘compromise’. Who was it? I would call for the position of power to be named after these politicians so that society as a whole knows. And then there's another small remark. It's clean. I have such a purely human, personal interest and curiosity in listening to and watching Mr Feldman's speeches. I would very much like to ask Mr Feldman: the next time you speak, maybe you can move by five centimeters to the side so I can see those five only books on your shelf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U92	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U93	Hello, colleagues! I think that the draft law drafted and presented by this government is far from improving the well-being and social security of the owners of micro-enterprises. Here, black to white is written that tax policy is changing not for the benefit of the businessman. Consequently, it is demagogicism that we are giving this distribution of taxes to a businessman - and that is really absurd. The proposal in question deals only with one thing: how this tax is distributed. I think that micro-cooperative, Mr. Feldman, probably knows that any micro-enterprises, even if they are doing or working in the IT field and they are doing in the virtual environment, are still on our sinful land in a specific place... On the first floor of the house where I live, there is one micro-organism. Naturally, its owners are interested that the path to the customer-operated company would be asphalted, so that lighting would be inserted, so that other conditions would also be created. I am not talking about social assistance, which could, if necessary, be requested from the same municipalities. That's the point one. Two points. Split... By distributing part of this tax in favour of municipalities, we also increase the interest of municipalities in supporting micro-enterprises in their activities. And here these forms of support are very multifaceted, but unfortunately there is... is paid in principle mainly from that part of the budget, which is formed by personal income tax. Therefore, it is not a question here of whether it is absurd or not absurd, it could be debated whether it is sufficient or not to create the appropriate conditions, but it is a very different subject for the negotiations. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U94	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U95	It is very interesting to listen to the debate, colleagues. And I would remind you that this proposal is about how to distribute the tax on micro-enterprises in fact. And the proposal is that a larger part of the tax should actually be passed on to the municipality. And then what do we see? We see from the discussions that the debate is talking about the fact that the municipality is better aware of how to spend the income of citizens and workers. In my opinion, this is absolutely not the right approach, because the worker himself knows how much he makes and where he will spend the money, and it is not for the municipality to decide where to spend his money. It is now, in my opinion, an absolutely wrong approach, because it does not make the municipality work as such more efficiently and think about a more rational use of the municipal budget. Instead, we will take money from the population and only grow a municipal machine. That is why we also see that this proposal is obviously wrong and cannot be supported. So I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U96	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U97	I very much liked the phrase just said by the genius John Butan of the New Conservative Party, that citizens themselves will know where to spend their money. This logic is very understandable and supportive, because then taxes should not be applied at all, because citizens know where to spend and probably they know better than airBaltic to invest. Mr Butane, you're from the field of traffic, but you understand something. The citizen, I would admit, would spend these taxes on its survival rather than invest hundreds of million in airBaltic. That is, reflecting directly on your argumentation art. There's one more thing. If we are talking about taxes, about the economy, or something else, Mr Butane, then I would really ask you not to talk about these issues. Mr Feldman, to speak, because he has at least been the taxpayer of micro-enterprises, I understand that, but in your case, I read the press that you have to ask Russia now for cargo... that you have already lowered the area of traffic through the bubble. And traffic - it's business as I remember how much I have an understanding of this subject. That is why you, Mr Butan, are better off on the table than on taxes and entrepreneurship, just talk about stupidity, just as you have just said, that citizens know better about all payments and that taxes do not have to be paid by the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U98	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U99	Yeah, thank you. Well, the replica that just came from Mr. Butane is unique. If taxpayers were to decide for themselves where their taxes could be used, then I think there would be no such category as coercion... The categories of conjecture, as parliamentary secretaries, would not perhaps be other categories of conjecture, perhaps there would not have appeared one another's silly and stupid project, which unfortunately is not decided by the taxpayers. But this proposal is not about it. This has already been imposed on taxpayers quite a burden. And this is just about how and in what directions this burden will be spread to the benefit of society. And when it comes to municipalities, it's not about municipal bureaucracies, because it's far from worse, or bigger, or less efficient than, say, the government apparatus. This is about the direction in which these funds could be used. And here is the essence of that proposal. And if this is not understood by each other, it is a problem for the Member and unfortunately for the voters. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U100	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U101	So I would like to remind you once again of what the proposal is about, because I think once again that Members have not really got acquainted with the proposal that has been tabled. The proposal is about the distribution of taxes, not about the amount of the tax, whether it is paid or not, but where it goes. What am I saying? I say that it is better to pay social insurance than to the municipality, so social insurance as such is the personal interest of every individual - whether it be more pensions or social benefits, health... health or other services. In turn, when the municipality pays, the individual has absolutely no guarantee that he... the municipality will provide any service or aid. Of course, you can say: here will be business support or similar, but in fact, what we see from experience in life - that municipalities are not its most effective organisation. There are those who are better, there are those who are worse, but in fact the incentive for municipalities to be more effective is precisely in crisis situations where these budgetary resources are not enough to think... they themselves how to increase the size of the budget. And the size of the budget can be increased, not just by increasing something... on tax redistribution issues, but to contribute to an increase in the income of the population. And as a result of the rise, the part to be received by the municipality will also be much larger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U102	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U103	Yeah, thank you. The nature of the proposal I just... A brief comment. Personal income tax also does not just go into the municipal budget. As we can see from... Even today and yesterday, and last night, and certainly tomorrow and tomorrow in the budget package under consideration... We see that the redistribution of personal income tax takes place... and it is the Members of the Saeima who determine, and they... Unfortunately, this tax package reduces the proportion of personal income tax that goes to the municipal budget. This proposal merely strikes a balance between their redistribution. And one important point, too, is a reminder to Mr Butane. When the government and the governing politicians supported the administrative territorial reform, one of its objectives was to make the municipality more interested in the development of commercial activities, to attract more active people and to link the local government more closely with jobs and citizens. That is why it is important where a person is declared where he receives income and what part of his income is also included in the municipal budget, thus attracting and encouraging municipalities to become more creative and supportive of the business environment. Because logically, the more people's income tax complements the treasury in the municipality... the municipality, the more the municipality is interested in developing infrastructure, developing education, developing accessibility to the relevant sports activities for its residents. It's just wrong to think that social... There must be no conflict between the social budget and the personal income tax budget... to contrast state bodies such as the Ministry of Transport with local government bodies and the local government’s security. The government has already reduced the government's income and you, the members of the coalition, have reduced it. You already took the free lunch for the children, putting it on the back of the municipality. You would now also like to impose an obligation on social workers to control the low-income beneficiaries. How long can municipalities continue to limit themselves simply by imposing additional obligations, and unfairly still publicly offending them in some way? There are indeed a number of countries, such as Switzerland, where it is the level of local government... and the municipalities are those which play an important role in the overall state installation as such and in the involvement of the public. And there is no better instrument to attract people to participate more actively in the work of the municipality as well as to ensure that part of his income is transferred to the budget of the municipality. It is a mutual instrument with a bilateral direction. And I think that when, I am very sorry, but as a result of the failure of the Latvian Railways, close to 50 million has already been invested in saving this institution and additional appropriations are being made... And today, we are close to 18 million additional funding accepted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission by the Ministry of Transport, which certainly does not give the impression that there is something in this ministry that is in order to plan, that there is a good and thorough host principle and that there is a general understanding of how to carry out their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U104	The name to Member Karin Scratch. You're going to have three minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U105	Yeah, that's enough. Colleagues! I would also like to remind you and the voters of what you did in these two years at all, and I would also like to remind you... I fear even (Not clearly heard.) ... which will be still because the natural resource tax has been redistributed, took away the municipalities, you took the gambling tax away from the municipalities. Even the children's lunch you took away. You'll take everything away! You, I don't know what you mean. Clearly, you don't have any experience in municipalities - neither Butan nor Feldman, so you can be so brave, you can take it away... as the favorite word for Feldman - to deal with demagogy, because from practice you have no experience, and I am very sorry that the municipalities are very quiet... that they do not oppose your decisions, so I call for support for this proposal and not for demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U106	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U107	The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission did not support the 27th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U108	Please call me! We will vote on the 27th proposal tabled by Members Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and Dana Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 56, for - 2. The proposal was rejected. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. We're meeting in an hour -- we're continuing the sitting at 13:30. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U109	Dear colleagues, Let us continue the budget sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”. Member of the Commission responsible Janis Cielen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U110	Hello, colleagues! We shall continue to work on the 28th proposal from the Members' Group - Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Dauge, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskis and Bergmanis. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U111	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 22, for - 41, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U112	Proposal 29 received from the Legal Office. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U114	30. Proposal received from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozolas. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U115	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - The proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 46, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U116	Proposal 31 - from the Members' Group - Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Many, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskis and Bergmanis. And this proposal proposes to remove the planned minimum social contributions for the self-employed. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U117	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 45, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U118	32. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U120	33. the proposal has been received from the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U122	Proposal No 34 has been received from a group of Members – Reizniece–Ozola, Valainis, Koite, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskis and Bergmanis. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U123	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 46, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U124	35. Proposal received from Members Dombrovskis and Reiznieces-Ozolas and related to the protection of micro-entities against creditors' claims. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U125	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U126	Dear colleagues, I will call for support to be given to the proposal made by my colleagues, because we are talking about housing and its protection against creditors' claims... I think it is very important to remember once again the debate on which we... in which we have been trying, for the second day, to show colleagues from the coalition the picture, the average taxpayer of micro-enterprises, how he lives, how he works and what his average income is, and what his wealth is. And in this case, it is precisely the sole protection of housing against creditors' claims that would be a very important support mechanism in this situation, especially given that we have still not achieved the support of coalition colleagues for the idea that, at this time of emergency, any protection from various contractual penalties and fines should also be provided if we are talking specifically about the collection of real estate tax. We had such a proposal submitted by Mrs Švelova, but unfortunately this proposal was not supported by colleagues, hastened somewhere with other proposals, but this problem has still not been solved. Yes, these are two different things, but if we are talking about housing, we should make it compulsory and we should make it compulsory to talk about it and remember it. Colleagues! It will be a very difficult time ahead, and you, honourable colleagues from the coalition, probably the best to know, because the opt-out of the micro-enterprises tax... the destruction of this regime actually coincides with... Yes, of course, it coincides with the difficult situation that we have begun and which is likely to escalate even further in the coming months. And what we could read today in the State Audit Office's report... Thus, the State Audit Office report stated that, in fact, the greatest one, can say... If this were to be said, it was the micro-enterprises' taxable persons who benefited from the down payment because they did not have to wait and look and calculate what social contributions they had. So coming in front of that second wave, starting with the second wave and not knowing how long it will last, how long it will be necessary to pay these benefits that have not yet been paid... You eliminate most of the beneficiaries of these benefits, thus probably relaxing all functions. I will therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal by helping to safeguard the single house, so at least there will be something. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U127	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U128	Colleagues, good afternoon! I would urge you to say something about this proposal to the authors of the bill, at least the faction that defends this bill... the authors, THE YOUNG Unity... because it is now a proposal that protects micro-businesses in some way, so that they can protect their only housing in a very specific way. If there's a businessman in the regions who owns a legacy or whatever home, this present... The proposed regime is about this: if you want to operate in the micro-enterprises tax regime and get very minimal tax discounts in contrast to what is available when working in the SIA regime, then please assume the risk, liability with all your assets that you own, and then you can operate in this regime. We do not rule out the fact that, given the degree to which the draft law is based on the dislike of micro-entrepreneurs... we do not rule out that these entrepreneurs should also take personal responsibility, which is also wrong in itself. However, to assume that these people have some kind of opportunity to protect their only housing - we stand up for this - and that is this proposal that we would also call on you, fellow Members, to respect it. Because this entrepreneur wants to do business exactly as drastic... it is precisely because of the lack of protection mechanisms for economic operators that could be completely depreciated. Or, looking at this moment, even these idle benefits, which Mrs Stepanenko mentioned... one is cool that they're paid there... The bad side effect is that they are being put back at the moment. And in this case, if it's an entrepreneur working in SIA mode, he's much more protected than if these idle benefits were to be paid back back to micro-entrepreneurs... what is already being offered. And at least the housing in which this micro-entrepreneur lives would be the minimum thing that should still be ensured. Imagine the situation: if the baker of bread in Jelgava for some reason, due to these amendments, the increased interest rate becomes difficult to deal with the big competitors, then the same State Revenue Service... Maybe some mistake after this entrepreneur applies for a idle benefit, he turns out to be not eligible, even though the State Revenue Service has paid him it, in this way he can owe to this State Revenue Service, and later this procedure... this debt may grow, there may be some kind of tax debt, and such a situation may lead to the formation of debt against creditors. And then that's the whole scene... It's sad. This baker in Jelgava may take away the only apartment or house, perhaps the same house, where he cooks its bread. He's... All this comes to the creditors. Colleagues, in my opinion, I would not very much like such a scene to come true in life, but this proposal is aimed precisely at protecting, in some way, at least small businesses, at least in some way at the level of the level of competition that we are talking about here. The aim of the law is also to mention the creation of competition, only in this respect competition is not similar – the employee of SIA regime is more protected than the micro-entrepreneur in this case. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U129	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U130	Yeah, thank you. For reasons not known to me personally, the path to the Nordic example and model of construction is basically driven by increasing salaries for ministers working in public administration, the President. For unknown reasons, the draft law providing for simplified insolvency proceedings for small debtors has disappeared in the Ministry of Justice somewhere. For unknown reasons, it is the beneficiaries of small and medium-sized income that are subject to an additional tax burden, through tax reform and the elimination of micro-enterprises. But, in my opinion, the Nordic route is a path that also provides social and stable guarantees for its citizens, for ordinary people. And the interest of a normal person begins, of course, with minimal... inviolable housing. This proposal would also specifically provide this inviolable, primary, single housing for this population and category. I therefore ask my colleagues to support this proposal in the Nordic road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U131	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U132	Colleagues! This proposal is not up-to-date. It's taken... This is based on a summary of the experience of both France and Estonia. And especially... Even if we look at it in isolation from the rest of the package... and this is part of the complex proposal to change the micro-enterprises tax regime, to segment companies, to apply different rates, to motivate especially the first years of operation with lower tax rates and to strengthen anti-avoidance rules, to prevent a micro-entrepreneur from working as an employee, owner or beneficiary of real benefits in the same sector, then this is one safety valve for him as a businessman, as a susceptible person, risking his own capital, creating a job for himself and, often, for other members of society as well as members of his family. This is a way in which we are at least partially trying to protect them from full bankruptcy and from starting a life of zero, especially in view of the fact that you have also proposed to increase the responsibilities of micro-enterprises at the moment, preventing a limited company from becoming a micro-entrepreneur. SIA is protected. If we remove this possibility for SIA to operate in the micro-enterprises tax regime, then also business organisations indicate that this significantly increases the risk of private insolvency. The private person in insolvency proceedings is also not protected from the removal of all property, including the sole residence. In order not to reduce the spirit of entrepreneurship, which, as we have already been discussing this subject for two days, is extremely low, lower, much lower in Latvia than in a country like Belarus... this safety cushion is extremely important, and that is why this proposal has arisen, as I would like to emphasise once again - not even a fictional one, perhaps unfortunately not a fictional one, but taken from the experience of neighbouring countries as a good solution. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U133	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U134	Since none of the authors of the proposals comes, they do not participate in this debate, it appears that the authors of the proposals imagine that Latvia lives in such a regime that people do not own, that everything belongs to the state, and I think that the time was in the Soviet Union. And that... In the Soviet Union, perhaps it would be acceptable: such an approach here... be allowed to conduct business. In this case, I think anyone, as well as a micro-entrepreneur... This winter, which comes, will be full of uncertainty. Any micro-entrepreneur may find himself in a less competitive position with higher tax rates and may face problems such as the accumulation of EUR 10 000 of debt due to some business failures. I think this winter it can... anyone can face this situation. Any of these SIA operating in the mode, if he were to find himself in such a situation, would be protected. So that he doesn't take away his house or maybe his job in which he creates, produces his own... creates its own business. In this case, as my fellow Members have said, this has been taken over. In Estonia, the businessman is protected in this way, including in France. Well, let's look at the same example of Estonia, whose draft law... it has never been recognised at least during this sitting, but it seems to have been shared. This proposal also comes from what they share. Maybe something hasn't been done to the end. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U135	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U136	Colleagues! Everything is very simple. During the crisis, any recovery must actually be frozen in relation to all those who have suffered, who cannot work, who fall, for this reason, turnover and so on. There's an emergency. In an emergency situation, there must be an emergency solution; people must be helped. But just... The country will gain more by helping people than by laying them out of their homes - and the essence of the whole proposal. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U137	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U138	35. proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U139	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - The proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Let's vote! - 30, 52, abstaining. - No. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U140	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. And it's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U142	37. - Proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. These transitional provisions are intended to maintain the actual rates of taxation for micro-enterprises. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U143	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U144	Colleagues! Entrepreneurs themselves, business organisations and just a society that follows what is happening outside the walls of this house, understand that any attempt and policy that leaves a person now without work, without a source of its own profit, is critical... critical to the stability of society. Because if really the Ministry of Finance estimates that 32 000 micro-enterprises' taxable persons will find a job after the planned change in the micro-tax regime, there will still be a change in the tax regime or, I don't know, they will do something else, just without even explaining what the plan B is for this group, then it must be understood whether they really have real opportunities to find it. I think we ourselves... Especially for the members of the government who have spent the last evening planning various kinds of support measures for entrepreneurs, it must be understood that this is... This is precisely the moment when the need for labour has actually been reduced rapidly for entrepreneurs, workers are made redundant, staff burdens are reduced, because in business now demand and turnover are not as high as in good times or in normal times. This means that many of these people will not be able to find new jobs if they are forced to leave the micro-enterprises tax regime. Statistics show that still in the first half of this year, some 16 thousand, slightly more than 16 thousand micro-enterprises were employed elsewhere. Perhaps this would then be a relatively more secure part of the micro-enterprises' taxpayers. If even they are forced to leave the micro-enterprise or to close their business, extra work, then they may have some plan B - they earn somewhere else and will be able to support their family. In general, however, colleagues, overall, the number of micro-enterprises in the tax regime exceeds 80,000. If the plan is to save only 19 thousand workers in this regime, then the question is, let's say, rhetorical, I don't know, the opposition is worth it, but I think it is very legitimate - what will be done from 1 January, from 31 July, those people to whom you will have turned oxygen into their tax regimes: micro-enterprises' tax regime, the self-employed tax regime, the beneficiaries of royalties, who will be rapidly increasing tax burdens, tax payments and will not be able to continue their work in the usual way? This proposal is intended to maintain the current tax rates for micro-enterprises, waiting for a better time. Well, at least next year, we look at how the economic recovery will end, whether the government is smart enough, and also the European Commission's funding, which will also be allocated to the recovery plan, will not spend any kind of policy orders, IT projects, but really will create jobs, really will invest so that we can get back on track, really will help transform the economy so that people are not forced to work with low wages... or low value added in enterprises. If everything really goes like butter and the economy recovers, and once again we reach the four-five per cent growth rate, then we can also think about changing tax rates for small businesses. Today, everyone needs to be in a welfare regime. What the government is doing at the moment, what the coalition partners, as you try to put everything on the Minister of Finance, on Kariņa, on the political force of the New Unity that has fought a few places, will be the responsibility of all of you, all the others, for leaving many families in Latvia without income at this time when there must be a welfare regime in the private sector rather than in the public administration, which will continue to increase wages. And that's not the point... It is not just the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Parliamentary Secretaries. This is a general question of public administration, not to mention the fact that the Prime Minister, when he was asked whether he was willing to give up the increase in wages for the government, said in a rather cool way that "we have increased salaries for medical staff, we have increased salaries for teachers", forgetting to say that you have increased the tax burden for small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U145	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U146	Yeah. Colleagues! It's pretty bad. However, it has been examined, already... Well, it's coming to the end of the proposals... No mechanisms of protection and no steps towards opposition have you taken - at least in this draft law. And quite hard to continue to vote. That is why, perhaps in this place, it is worth thinking about this proposal once again. Once again, I would also like to remind you personally that, however, this is a very large population, staffing, more than 80 000 operating in this regime. Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola has already mentioned - even about 20 thousand after this vote... there will be a very uncertain future for these people. For the rest of you, it's going to be... in the already difficult circumstances, it will become even more complicated, and that is all on behalf of one thing, so that the budget deficit can only be kept at a level of at least 3.9 per cent. I have such reflections here, is it not that you want this reform... It's so peculiar... The peculiar madazohism is just as it was when the Minister of Transport came with amendments to the rates of tax on imported cars, which caused a great deal of dawn, and then members of the Saeima began a great fight for how they are going against their own minister. The cadastral values were just the same: the Minister comes to the government with an offer, against which the party that was represented then joined "no". Such a peculiar fight with yourself. At the moment, those working in the cultural field are in a similar situation. Initial offer... The government itself offers... Then, of course, for those working in the field of culture who were very well mobilizing and really very beautifully expressing their views, and were even partially, but were heard, now has been promised... various support mechanisms created. But the creation of its support mechanisms - that's the kind of red tape you create yourself and continue to grow a public administration machine in this way, you don't let them just work in the way they worked, but actually put them in the role of a petitioner... Government: please give some kind of support. In this case, it will inevitably be 10,000 here... tens of thousands of people who will turn to and will be forced to turn to the government precisely because of these amendments. It will be forced to turn to the government with a request for help, and it will become such an absolutely unnecessary petitioner. Those who have been able to take care of themselves, to pay taxes, to exist in some way, and to make every one of us proud of them, to pray and to call on the government, to ask for some kind of help so that they can simply survive. In a way, the government will once again be able to sit down, think, laugh, or do they really need: “What are you doing? On the other hand, we have big companies, like airBaltic, which is very important for our economy and so on, let us invest a hundred more... “ Colleagues, in my opinion, this is the place where the Saeima should still stand in a tough position and say: “No, colleagues, we are against such changes. We are in favour of maintaining the existing tax policy regime. We are thinking about how to support small businesses even more, rather than put them in a very difficult position and get them to go to the government afterwards and ask for support and then the government will say, "Oh, that bad Saeima has abolished these tax regimes, and now we have to help them." “ Colleagues, think with your head and vote with your conscience.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U147	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U148	(Sound disturbance) ... President-in-Office. Colleagues! The record has already been overcome in the debate on this budget, but I think this is one of the final proposals of this draft law, where I do not think that there is some kind of fiscal... defects... And why the whole coalition is voting so unitedly... and this is the case in all budgets. But I would also like to talk a little... This is an opportunity to soften at least one of the impressions that will remain after the adoption of this budget in some way, because what will then remain after this budget? Firstly, it will remain that the Prime Minister, the President and the Ministers have increased their salaries. That is the first point. The second point will be that it's oppressed and evicted, I don't know, underground or where, evicted... the small businessmen have been driven out, but to some extent... Well, fiscally together, they don't play such a very big role in the country as they play against their families, against the fact that they don't have to pray for benefits at the moment. They feed themselves, keep their families, and here they are pushed down. There's a couple of laws in front, where it's once... At that time, I can afford to say, my friend Reyra has argued like a Prime Minister by repealing the proposal on compulsory social contributions, which of course... must affect all those who are unfair, who still have to respect those who are in some way... as I said, your families support at least. So when I go back to micro-enterprises, I remember them all the time. I think that we have been auditing well together to push those who used this form of taxation out of this environment so - as an illustration of one example - that not a man but a micro enterprise sits in every electricity pillar so that construction can divide all its employees into micro-enterprises. It seems to me that those times have gone away, I have not seen a micro-organism more in any of the Latvian electricity poles. At the same time, I have seen micro-enterprises who are still trying and who then, if possible, go to the normal... the big business. I have not yet found an answer on who is using this regime. As a micro-enterprise could buy “Dzintari” - well, it’s a question of this... perhaps some shortcomings in this regime that need to be mitigated. But with this, we are simply hitting people who do not deserve it. Once again, as I obviously understand the situation, the budget must be voted on and you will be voting. And what the New Conservative Party is doing right now is simply using the fact that the New Unity with its Prime Minister and Finance Minister has been pushed into such a corner. They have nothing left to manage this budget... Where else will the one who can't defend himself... They're now Professoring on this whole background and trying to be like... Well, in every government someone tries to be a opponent and say that he is better than others, to criticise. But it seems to me that this budget really does not seem to be good and will have a very good impact on future development as well... I don't think someone will praise it very much. And the time of crisis... time of crisis... Look out, get out of here. The Old Town is empty. And at the moment, give a good kick to small businessmen?... We put these questions, make this arrangement later! I also listened to it - about all these forms. What's going to happen? What will happen in the future? Make a future, make new forms of small business, and then press on the roads of those who, well, may have also arisen only during the previous crisis. It seems to me that this is perhaps one of the last options; there are some three proposals left here: this... In general, this law, well, it has no place in this budget. That is what I really say with full responsibility. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U149	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U150	Colleagues and society, especially society! By adopting the public budget, by actually destroying the micro-enterprises tax regime, we are offending a very large part of society. These are tens of thousands of people who will be taxed during the crisis. And in fact, within the framework of this debate, I reached one very harsh conclusion. The harsh conclusion is that now it is very likely that the government and the ruling coalition are doing everything absolutely right - that they are increasing taxes. I am, of course, saying this quite cynically, but I am doing it for one simple reason. I do not see that these 20 and more thousands of people, who will increase taxes during the crisis, protest at the Saeima or the Cabinet of Ministers - that they would actually protest. They protest in sofas. And that's not right. Dear people, you also have to protect yourself. The opposition will do its job. Explaining for each proposal why such proposals are being introduced, what protection they could offer. They will be rejected by the heading. But, obviously, it is necessary to come to a situation where tens of thousands of Latvians, who are already the hardest to go, have the least state support in the context of the super-crisis, that these people must increase their taxes because they do not oppose them. This is the way in life, dear society, dear people. If you don't argue, if you're afraid, then the government does what it wants. Then the coalition of power does what it wants. And that is absolute truth, absolute law. That is why I do not even invite you to start protesting. I invite you to just sit in the couch and think about why it is happening in Latvia. At a time when other countries, including neighbouring countries, in Estonia, are helping the least prosperous part of the population, small businesses are helping... And why doesn't Latvia help? The answer, I allow, lies in the fact that the society that is in our neighbourhood is much more involved in political processes, is much more involved in these events, not only by protesting, say, physically on the street, but also by engaging in political protests, taking part in parties and so on. If we compare the number of people, what... what is, let's say, in lots in Estonia and Latvia... And that's the consequences. Those we see today. It's not a surprise, it's nothing new, it's happening from year to year. In a way, a coalition of power can be very well understood. If excellent cynical people sit in the coalition of power, who have an indifferent fate of society, but who at the same time realize that society will not claim to be afraid to protest that there will be a tendency to protest, this rule will lead to taxation. Here you see it as a classic example - both taxing, non-protection in times of crisis, and everything else. Think about these things! You know that I have always spoken a direct language. A true language is not always pleasant, but it is absolutely true that I tell you, dear people. As long as you wait for miracles, the Luck of Happiness, the Sun, or anything else, nothing will change. And ye shall deserve it, that nothing shall change: for ye do nothing yourselves. No one else has a duty to defend you. It is first and foremost the duty of people to defend themselves. So all those tens of thousands who are now going to be taxed, not giving protection, and all the rest - get ready, you're gonna have to go on the streets! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U151	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U152	Colleagues! I would like to add to what my colleague, Mr Gobzem, said, that this... Well, this protest from society was very civilised. If we see this annotation at the bill, then at the Public Participation... in that box, we see that several submissions by natural persons, objections, proposals that were directly related to the change of this law were submitted. But in view of this, it was in this description that this MUN rate is being... The MUN regime is mainly used for a variety of less correct purposes, and then it is decided to eliminate it. That is the answer, which in practice means "we do not care what you are writing and what you want to say to us, we must get a budget of around 20 million per year for the next three years from this event". Colleagues! Right away, I think you can say that the budget won't get anything from this, maybe even on the contrary -- minus... The strange thing is, too, that... Well, I understand that Mr Zakatistov has been staring at his salary supplement for some fourth day now: he is nowhere visible, he does not want to speak, even though Mr Bondara and Mr Zakatistov promised us a wide-ranging debate when presenting this budget, to tell us all how it will be, how business people will live and how you have come up with everything now. Well, the fourth day is already today. We cannot expect Mr Zakatistova's comments on this dossier, so we cannot expect it. Most of all, I would like to hear Mr Zakatistov's comment on why an institution such as the Board of Fiscal Discipline, which, as we see from the public space, has warned you, honourable budgetary drawers, about the great risks of taxing in this crisis situation. Well, because it is a crisis situation, I think you have already understood it yourself, you see it, because you have also voted in favour of introducing an emergency situation. So you see, however, that something is not good, but in this crisis situation, despite all the warnings, despite - yes, well, well, the natural persons, who are those that they can then point out! - applications from natural persons, despite opposition from the Board of Fiscal Discipline, Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry... I do not know, in fact, whether there is any institution other than the Ministry of Finance, which agreed to change this regime. I don't know. I'm just... Last sitting there were some brave UK Members who tried to show something to their... Either, you can't understand what its position was - or, since they wanted to bite the New Unity for the fact that maybe the UK was forced to give up the unlimited minimum of EUR 500, or something else was - but the position is not clear. The position of Zakatistov is not understandable at all; it is not at all. Who is responsible for this budget, we do not know, it is simply brought and it is voted automatically. Who has voted there - from those boxes we also do not know in fact - instead of Mr Zakatistov, for example. So, honourable colleagues, what can I say? I call for this proposal to be supported and for us to think carefully: perhaps we can refer this draft law back to the Commission. I do not know what the Legal Office can say in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U153	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U154	Dear colleagues, Well, colleagues, this bill is not a masterpiece, but it is, it is presented, we are debating it. There have been very well-founded proposals, in my view, but the problem is somewhere else. The problem is that we are living in a crisis, we are living in a severe and unpredictable crisis, which will never end either in January or March, and it is not known that there will be a third or fourth or fifth wave... It must therefore be borne in mind that during the crisis, radical changes to the rules of the game can only take place with one aim: if we are a hundred points guaranteed, one hundred per cent is guaranteed that the amendments to the rules of the game to be introduced will improve, and the situation will be significantly improved. Here, to be honest, there is no such opportunity... there is neither an opportunity nor an expression of such an objective. This draft law focuses on the fiscal direction. The fiscal effect is rather questionable, but maybe it will not. But this week we reviewed twice draft laws “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”. One is from the budget package and one is from an emergency... an emergency situation. By adopting this bill, is there a guarantee that the government... There are no uncertain risks - I stress! - I don't know... The risks will appear among the people... but the undefined risks that will need to be addressed in the same operational way as with today's accepted... by the law ‘Amendment to the law on maternity and sickness insurance’. There, too, were the accusations that, behold, it was not thought out to the end, that it was necessary to think of salt further and salt more broadly, and so on, and so on. That is why the proposal that has been tabled is that it is supported by its very nature, so as not to create artificial and unnecessary obstacles to the work of the government when it comes to working in an emergency. And so I think that if we act with some brain potential, maybe that proposal could also be supported. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U155	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U156	Yes, colleagues, I... In reply to Julia Stepanenko that there have been some people who have written some applications or some paperwork, I would like to say that it is too little to write applications and papers. Tens of thousands of people who will receive tax increases in times of crisis, write a couple of pieces of paper - with which there are too few, dear people! Waiting for the eight members of the opposition speaking in the debate... that a miracle will take place and eight Members will be able to vote 51 votes in Parliament... I can answer you right away: such miracles do not happen. You need to learn maths! How eight against 51? Somehow... Okay, that's about 20-30 to 50... with the tombs. But we also need to teach mathematics in this area and we need to look at it, as we do in other countries - Germany, Denmark, France, Italy... Anywhere! And if people don't appear, please... then I think that the government is doing absolutely right. So the government is raising taxes for those who do not argue. The government will stop only if people start protesting, and that is a harsh, real life truth. If Latvian society does not want to understand this harsh, real truth of life, does not want to open its eyes, they are afraid or have laziness, or something else, then it must be concluded that Latvian society lives too well. I admit that this speech is very cynical, but how else do you wake up, dear people? You are also responsible for what is happening in your country and what your government is doing to you. Your laziness is why it treats you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U157	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U158	Colleagues! I think it would not be so hot to debate just about changes to the micro-enterprises tax regime if, together with this, you did not eliminate the patent fees and would not significantly increase the tax burden on the self-employed and beneficiaries of royalties. All this must be seen in the context. In addition to the fact that you are already planning to extort two thirds of employees from the self-employed regime next year, leaving only 30 percent of the employees there, just as you are planning that more than 30 000 people who are self-employed will find work elsewhere or move to another tax regime, it would be good if those paying the micro-enterprises tax regime were one of the potential employers, but in this draft law you expect that the micro-enterprises tax rate will only be paid by the owner of the micro-enterprises. In turn, if we want to recruit other employees, we will have to pay full social contributions there. And, colleagues, it's all... together with an increase in the rate of micro-enterprises to 25-40 per cent of GDP without the possibility of write-off eligible expenditure, the tax burden is too high. The Latvian Taxpayer's Rights Association has calculated... You can also meet everyone... It's pretty good with this... In order for a micro enterprise to pay an employee the minimum wage (EUR 500 gross), costs and social contributions - this year it is necessary to provide income of almost EUR 10 000, where the owner of the company himself will not have earned any cent yet, merely providing the employee with salaries and social contributions. You simply spoil both this tax regime and the rest, and you will leave people on the street. Please think about it. And those who... Colleagues, you are not from the Moon either and you have become Members (a part of you have experience in municipalities and businesses) and are able to logically think and understand how its system works overall.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U159	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U160	Regardless of the government's intention to say that there is no tax reform in this budget, it is, in substance, a very large tax reform that is being proposed and which we are calling for through this proposal to restrict, suspend and maintain the existing rules in some way. Some coalition politicians have already expressed themselves in public space, yet they call it tax reform, but the government has not done so, promising more changes in taxes some time later. At the moment, for some vague reason... The only explanation that has been the case is to increase social guarantees. And there have been a number of counter-promots that it could, quite the other way round, increase the shadow economy. Different calculations... About 20 thousand people at all, this fate of the future is not absolutely clear, and instead we have not heard anyone... none of the same arguments about how these entrepreneurs, these over ten thousand... Or at all... Do you really... Maybe we're wrong, maybe they're not going to be in the shadow economy, maybe the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry is wrong. What's... Is that so? Who is right then? But I would like to say that it will still be true for the opposition in this case, and the government makes a big mistake with this - the draft law will have a relatively small impact on the overall budget. The things we talked about yesterday - these start-ups and other regimes that are still... What is already there and what will still be... Well, I think I should have arranged everything in such a way that there is already a clear alternative, and then a death sentence for micro-entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U161	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U162	Yeah, thank you. I would disagree with what I said that this bill is not a masterpiece. It's a masterpiece. It's a masterpiece of the destruction of micro-enterprises. It is an indifference to the fate of 60,000 people, it is a great arrogance for the opinion of businessmen and their opposition to the masterpiece. This draft law is a masterpiece, how should not make decisions that are not based on modelling of the situation, that are not based on expert opinions and that are not based on the relevant analysis and segmenting of taxpayers. I ask colleagues to support this proposal and to allow the micro-enterprises regime to be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U163	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U164	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U165	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! On - 28, against - 54, refraining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U166	38. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. The proposal also concerns the possibility for a limited liability company to work under the micro-enterprises tax regime. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U167	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! On - 29, against - 52, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U168	39. - the proposal of Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola to supplement the transitional provisions with the following text: "The law shall enter into force on 1 July 2021." This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U169	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U170	Yes, colleagues! It is not for nothing that I am talking about this situation with regard to very uncertain circumstances... what winter will be like, what the disease will be like, when vaccines will be available, what the economics will be. And we should all be honest, and nothing bright at this time looks like that. At the moment, at such a time of uncertainty, we are discussing quite a debate on amendments, quite a debate. It's not for nothing that's the second day - it's getting closer than noon... when we are debating it. The opposition, as far as we can, is trying to talk to you, thaw them up and make them understand how bad the small business will be. The objective of this proposal is to bring the law into force in July 2021... These amendments. I call for this to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U171	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U172	39The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U173	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U174	Dear colleagues, The last one is 40. - The proposal from Member Slurry. The proposal provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2022. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U175	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U176	Colleagues! I would also like to say to the previous proposal that this also justifies my proposal in the draft law on amending the Law on Budgets and Financial Management, that transitional provisions... a transitional period of at least half a year must be allowed for tax changes, which are detrimental to the taxpayer's situation. But you didn't listen. This proposal is, in my opinion, even better for taxpayers, because it leaves this nightmare for a whole year, allowing them to prepare for those people who would otherwise be at risk of all this on 1 January. And maybe in the meantime, the government would finally come up with some kind of ailment and understand these people they have done... What they are going to do. If we... Since we are currently working on the platform e-Saema and applying for a procedure is really a rather long way... I have to say... So I ask you to listen to me, too. I ask colleagues to examine the possibility of returning this draft law to the Commission, if possible. If this is not possible, then say that the Rally Ride does not allow it. Because this particular draft law is, well, one of the most harmful draft laws in the budget. It should be recast. We had a practice where we had to redraft draft laws that were not qualitatively, thoroughly considered and debated. This is one of the draft laws, the most striking example of which has been said negative about this draft law by all those who will be affected, but the coalition Members and the government do not listen at all to those micro-enterprises' tax payers, do not listen to the representatives of different organisations, and simply go ahead as a voting machine, with no rebuttal argument. Well, the only counter argument we have heard is that this regime is not being used in good faith. Well, then we can also look at the funding of parties, because the funding of parties, as we also see from the increase this year, is not being used in good faith, some will never be enough. Then we also eliminate it, we figure out that the parties must be financed by personal income tax, and each of us notes the EDS he wants to wish his own euro. And that's it. And that would only be fair, because now, such a shawl of money for those who are doing the most damage in our country, in my opinion, is not justified in that case. I call on you, colleagues, to support this proposal. If you do not support this proposal and probably you do not support it, then I would ask you very much to look into the possibility of returning this bill back to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U177	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U178	Colleagues! What you have to bear in mind, the government, the members of the coalition, you are now in a difficult but very close partnership with you. You're in partnership with the community. And if you can predict your own behaviour yourself, you may think that you are analyzing, you make logical decisions, then your partner is unfortunately very unpredictable and may cause much more damage to your partnership than planned, not only to you as heads of government, but to society as a whole. Entrepreneurs already understand that winter will be very difficult, and I think no one... During the discussions on previous support measures during the extraordinary sitting, the Minister also acknowledged that she was not a light region and could not predict what would still happen in the next month, where she was still in the next year. And this must also be taken into account when planning tax changes. Because at the moment, in such a very unpredictable situation, significantly increase the tax burden, also allowing it to be largely extortioned from these regimes by tens of thousands of workers (taxpayers) who will be forced to look for work in a situation where there will be no one to recruit them... You also see for yourself, I think it is difficult to predict the turn of events in good time and also to predict perhaps even well thought, and to propose well-designed state aid measures. With state aid measures, you are always delaying you, you are offering them after the income has already fallen for companies when you have been forced to limit your economic activity once again. You are, well, because of a lack of experience... and it's also partially understandable... It happens that you are as the first time with a pipe on the roof, and not everyone has learned from the spring crisis either. You have a corrigendum of errors all the time - decisions made at the last moment, then many times corrected. This means that you are also unable to be able to do so with the support of the state, which, even if you raise taxes and when a worker stays out of work, you could give the families what to eat, would be how to overwinter even in the coming months... That is not so good yet, even if it is well thought out. Well, and unfortunately, the third factor, too, is that society does not have too much resistance to such experiments. In the middle of the summer, Luminor bank had carried out a study that showed that 26 percent of the Latvian population... I'm not talking about micro-taxpayers... of all residents of Latvia would be enough savings for only one month. And more than half - 58 percent - these funds would last only two months. You yourself have repeatedly argued that people working under the micro-enterprises tax regime are not adequately socialised. This means that if they are unemployed, if the government does not offer any immediate support instrument from the budget, then they will not receive sufficient social guarantees. This means that in two months, some even faster, they will have zero resources to support themselves and their family. In these circumstances, colleagues are, well, extremely risky so as not to say even more strongly, that it is insane, increasing the tax burden by leaving people out of work. I call for support for this proposal by my colleague, Karina Slūde, which is postponing this decision for at least one year. Indeed, it will give you time to assess the situation, it will give you time to understand how your partner community is doing and how it will have an impact on the economy and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U179	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U180	Colleagues, following the adoption of this budget, there is a certain category of people who can predict their lives for the next two years. It is the Government, the Head of Government and the President of Latvia. Here everything is clear and understandable, they are not threatened, and they will maintain their standard of living on the same level as now, and perhaps even the salt will improve if consumption for themselves changes. On this matter, it is impossible to prepare for life in chaos, but it is possible to live in chaos, which we all do, and not only as legislators, but also as a very large part of our society, thanks to our active work. Therefore, in this case, in order to reduce their entropy, it would be important to freeze this draft law, as I said today, in order to reduce those risks, the risks of uncertainty caused by dialogue with the community. This dialogue is difficult, unpredictable, and indeed the government... is not disabled... most likely... there will be a need to find solutions to support the micro-enterprises sector if it still exists in some way. That's why it's... the break that Karina offers - it's a great place. Does not change game rules during the game! Especially heavy games, deadly games during which the outcome is not known to anyone. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U181	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U182	Yeah. More, colleagues! It is not for nothing that radio advertising is being heard at the moment, where the largest business organisation in Latvia is asking the question - has political parties promised something like this to their voters before the elections, or has they agreed something like that with the non-governmental sector? And I think it's completely in place. The tax reform was promised. Is that how it works? I think no one was expecting such a tax reform. This approach, which is now being proposed, also requires some electoral mandate for such amendments, and nothing can be better than elections. We have heard from previous speakers on other proposals that, of course, politicians in the election process come up with different games and tell them how much they are defending micro-entrepreneurs, although in a few weeks they come up with such amendments... which is immediately after the elections. I think that this proposal would put this issue... put real in the parliamentary election process, thrown in. And it would also be much more difficult for politicians to hope that society will forget it. I think that society will not forget anything and these amendments will leave a very, very important impact. Immediately after this vote, I am absolutely sure that the political parties will compete for the best tax... development of a special tax regime, because it will prove that the micro-entities regime... people have left this regime and there is great displeasure with... The shadow economy will grow, people will come to the government after the support, the social budget will be under stress. All these things will come together after this and the next vote. Colleagues, during the examination of this budget, this vote, the next vote, and then the only opportunity will be to vote against the entire budget in order to avoid these changes. However, I call on you, colleagues, to think national, especially those from the coalition, and to vote in this proposal... The budget, I think, will not fall out of it, this potential revenue from the budget, I think exactly the other way round, there will be some revenue. If it does not support this proposal, revenue - quite the other way around - will fall in the state budget. And all of you, as one, will have a great opportunity to go and tell the voters about your vision of the micro-enterprises tax regime until 2022, to tell and put it in your election programmes, because... and thus to achieve voter support for such amendments as well - why not? You will then be elected by someone in the Saeima, and you will have every opportunity to do so. And in this case, my colleagues do not really understand why both the CPV LV and the Development/About! , and the National Association after all... At the moment, too, the website of the National Association reads the opinion of Romana Moneyiņš, which he thinks about the micro-enterprises tax regime, which he has published several years ago and where there is a completely different position, but unfortunately no proposal has been put forward in this debate. And really be honest then to the end, be responsible: vote in favour of this proposal, colleagues. I really hope that what I have already started to talk about is not going to happen, that immediately after these votes, political parties will begin to measure, which is the greater defender of small businesses, who are the creator of more new regulation, because it is likely that this will also happen. Only this will happen in such a way that you will have actually destroyed a working business, a working business and the fact that these entrepreneurs simply have to go into the shadow economy. It will be very difficult to get back, colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U183	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U184	Proposal 40 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U185	Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - The Commissioner's Scratch proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 53, for - 1. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Now, please, pay attention! Member Stepanenko has asked to refer the draft law back to the commission responsible. We will vote in favour. Please see the procedure section. Can we vote? So we will vote for this draft law to be returned to the responsible Budgetary and Financial (Financial) Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 55, for - 1. The draft law has not been returned to the commission. Member of the Commission responsible Janis Cielen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U186	Colleagues! All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the second, final and final reading of the draft Law on Microbusiness Tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U187	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 57, against - 32, abstaining. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U188	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and prepared for consideration at the Seimas sitting at second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance””. A total of 38 proposals have been received. 1. - Proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Article 1 of the draft law provides for a change of words and a addition of words that are, in fact, unseen in the basic text of the law. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U189	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U190	Colleagues! We have discussed several times today, too, that these draft laws which change the tax policy of micro-enterprises, in the area of patentpayers, in the area of economic operators and also in the area of state social security contributions are interrelated. And this proposal, too, is not so much about this draft law. As here is being amended with reference to the income of micro-enterprises... law, then, unfortunately, here too... If, in essence, we support the idea that in the future the taxpayer of micro-enterprises would also have the opportunity to be a SIA, it is more correct to... On the contrary, SIA would also be a micro-enterprises tax payer, then this proposal should be supported. Colleagues, recently, on 25 November, former Minister for Economics, Arvils Asheradens, chairman of the Education, Culture and Science Commission, mentioned at the conference that Latvia should prepare for the economic leap following the Covid-19 crisis. This was the presentation of the Latvian productivity report - the 2020 report. Well, it's interesting for me to understand how this leap can be secured. Is that really the idea - wipe everything out and then start from zero. Because then any small step, even if it were just a centimeter of the ground, compared to zero, is of course a huge leap. It seems to me that it is not really hard to build and, however, better to maintain the foundations of a much less stable economy on which to build when we would like to ensure their recovery. What this budget offers is actually the opposite. The tax burden on small businesses is increased, leaving them out of work. The only economic stimulus that can be seen in the budget is strengthening the construction sector. Next year it is planned to design a concert hall, build a prison for three years. Well, yes, such measures are planned in the budget, but hardly all members of society should now become builders, and the promotion of one sector can hardly lead to harmonious economic development. Indeed, I think that we ourselves have experience quite freshly in our memory, too, that, due to the congestion of European Union funds, for two years already there was a heating of the construction sector, which finally turned into overheating and was not necessarily the radiation in other sectors. On the contrary, prices in the construction sector have risen rapidly, even four times, and have quadrupled into individual orders, but this does not mean that the economy as a whole lived in a harmonious life of development. This proposal is linked, as I said, to the micro-enterprises tax regime, allowing them to continue to work in a more secure regime. When registered as a micro enterprise tax payer, SIA - it would allow even a little, well, to keep what is currently in place without destroying everything. And then would perhaps be the hope that we will recover from the communion crisis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U191	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U192	Yes, colleagues! The economic leap will certainly be, and sometime it will be. When this is the case (at least in the sense of Mr Asheraden), we could learn this from Mr Asheraden, but he will certainly only share it with his group members, perhaps also with some good coalition colleagues, but not with the whole Saeima, and the opposition will probably not be able to share this information. But it would be good if we knew it. Regarding this proposal, which provides for micro-enterprises to be allowed to operate in the SIA regime, even though it did not support the... Unfortunately, they didn't get any support, but maybe there's someone else to suspect quite a... Let us say this, the hard coalition votes with some exceptions, where someone may refrain from somewhere, and yet one of the coalition Members is a little persuasive... However, I would ask you to think about economic growth, about the form in which the micro-enterprises tax regime operates. If it did not succeed in the previous draft law, at least with this - “Amendments to the law “On State Social Insurance””. This proposal is precisely for the purpose of putting these micro-entrepreneurs in the doorway. I would ask you, my fellow Members, to put on your leg... If you really want to help these special scheme entrepreneurs sometime afterwards, then I would ask you to support and put them in the door as much as you can, and in this way to get some sort of way back to the road that you will definitely have to look for. It is already clear that the next year's budget will be even more complicated than this, and it is already clear - the budget to come will also be very difficult. And in these circumstances it will be very difficult to return such norms. Seeing coalition parties' ability to implement some of their political initiatives at all, I strongly doubt that one of the political parties currently in the coalition will have the capacity and the ability to bring about some improvement in this tax regulation. This has failed so far. I'm talking about... I think that the baker of bread - the taxpayer of micro-enterprises - in Jelgava will be very disappointed with these votes by Members. It can, of course, also be anything - a karoš dregser in Riga or any home maker - but, most importantly, colleagues, try to visualize for yourself what is then this small businessman... the micro-entrepreneur. This proposal, if you could say so, would create something... some small backtrack for you, so you can sometime return to normal regime. Otherwise, if you continue to reject these proposals and vote as you are voting... Make meetings with some of your political groups, discuss again and consider whether you will be able to give your finger to the small business, some kind of help with the decisions of the Saeima or not before the next elections. I think it's not going to work, rather it's the other way around. Also with the government support mechanisms, after you have supported the allocation of over a hundred millions to airBaltic... Wait for the Gauss interview - you can read his first comments today, where he is already beginning to tell us that European airlines are now turning to their governments. Four five million a week is what they... pay for this situation at the moment and which goes minus. And, colleagues, there will be money to find somewhere, and you are likely to have to decide on it, the highly respected government and its supporters.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U193	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U194	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that the proposal provides for the exclusion of the words in point 2... not only those who are in the draft law, but also those who are not... ‘member of a limited liability company’... no one is currently in the law. I call on the Commission not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U195	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Also Members' registration regime. Registration has taken place. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U196	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance””. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U197	2. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. It is also envisaged that those micro-entities who are members of limited liability companies should be included in the self-employed. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U198	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U199	Yes, colleagues, indeed this is also a proposal, which is linked to the amendments proposed by the government to the micro-enterprises tax regime, which will prevent the future use of the micro-enterprises tax regime by SIA and thus increase the liability of private entrepreneurs who work in this regime, as we have already discussed, also posing a serious risk to the solvency of a natural person. And all these restrictions, which have been proposed so far in the micro-enterprises tax regime, and not only, are, to a large extent, justified by the need to increase fair competition and increase social security. Two major problems that the government now proposes solutions. While the free time was... was also an opportunity to read good books - Egil Levite, “State Minister”. That was the idea that came to mind when I read that book. It usually seems that the opposition or any outside leader, who is fighting for power, is carrying out populism, but now, my fellow Members, it can be concluded from the President's text that populism is unfortunately partly a government itself. Why do I say that? The President writes that populism is simply pseudorisation of complex problems. And it's one of the signs of populism, but the very first, which is mentioned in the definition proposed by the Prime Minister. Here we really understand that there is a problem. Yes, social security, according to the State Revenue Service, is relatively low for a large group of society. Insufficient social contributions are made to almost 270 thousand employees working in different modes, of whom only 35 thousand are in micro-enterprises' tax regime. The government is offering a simple solution: we are introducing minimum social contributions, making life difficult for micro-enterprises, making life more difficult for the self-employed, forcing them to move towards the general regime, because all of us must pay the same taxes. It sounds good, especially when it is put together with a desire to take care of small people, who see they have a problem suddenly upon paying their early benefits. One large part of society does not seem to be able to receive sufficient retirement benefits because they have not paid enough social contributions. Such pseudo-cares about society also offer pseudo-crimes. Those, colleagues, are not solutions because, by significantly increasing the tax burden, making it difficult to work in these small regimes, you will not increase social guarantees and not support small taxpayers, but you will increase the burden of payments for those who already earn less and leave some of them altogether without funds and with monthly income. And that, colleagues, is far from a solution. I call for this proposal to be supported by all those Members who believe that this concept should still be maintained, that SIA may also use the micro-enterprises tax regime. Because neither the commissions from the Ministry of Finance, from the Ministry of Economics, nor any of the Members, colleagues, nor here in the Parliamentary sitting, having already debated the fuel day on this issue, have we heard arguments about the importance of such a restriction for micro-entities (not to be heard). ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U200	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U201	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U202	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 51, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U203	3. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis to maintain the previous social security regime of the natural person receiving the royalties. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U204	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U205	Colleagues! Thank you to the rapporteur, who really, even separately... reading this proposal makes it more difficult to understand, but it is one of the sets of proposals that we have put forward in order to maintain the existing tax and social contributions burden on the self-employed, including those on royalties. The Artists' Union of Latvia has already made several comments in this context in various forms (both in public campaigns, letters writing, on television, and participation in expert meetings) that the tax burden that the government currently offers, especially in times of crisis, will not be tolerated in this field. The beneficiaries of royalties, colleagues, are, to a large extent, the creative persons who are so difficult and difficult this year because we remember - already in spring it was one of the sectors or one of the areas... the creative and cultural sector, which by law was prevented by the state from working. Now, there is already a second wave of the community and there are restrictions on society... the organisation of public events. Not just the theatres, the concerts that the country for its own... the institutions organise, but also for the organisers of private events, this is a complete stop-gap period, which in fact does not allow them to earn. State aid measures, colleagues, have also been delayed. We remember the spring when Estonia had already revised its support programme for the second time, improving and expanding to creative persons, and Lithuanians had been implementing support programmes for creative persons for several months, our government was not yet able to make decisions in discussions, I do not know what to argue about, trade and not provide this support. What needs to be taken into account by beneficiaries of royalties - without their equalisation with self-employed workers in the field of social contributions... We will continue to discuss how well-considered a government solution is now, which has really become a little milder for at least half a year, but this does not mean that it creates a sense of stability and security for this group of taxpayers. The beneficiaries of royalties have to bear in mind that personal income tax will rise rapidly, bringing it into line... Yes, for micro-enterprises, 25 per cent of the IIN will have to be paid if the revenues do not exceed 25 per cent and 40 per cent if there are any. And it has to be said that the sector itself is amazing and amazing in this situation, where they have difficulty earning, as it is also ready for even an increase in taxes and has offered its vision of the progressive nature of these taxes, less sticking to lower revenues and increasing if the annual income exceeds 55 000. Colleagues, what must also be taken into account... its social contributions could already be introduced, increasing this share of the taxpayer if, in addition, it had been accompanied by support instruments. To a large extent, creative persons are also performers of the public order, but what should definitely be done in the medium-term budget should not only provide for a small increase in the State Culture Capital Fund, but also for all state cultural institutions so that they can review existing projects, where contracts have already been concluded and funding for payment of higher social contributions and personal income tax contributions is not foreseen, as well as for financing new measures, so that they can compensate for these increases not at the expense of the authors themselves, reducing their already low income, but at the expense of the state. This is not what we are currently seeing in the medium term. The State Culture Capital Foundation also has additional restrictions, and not all authors will be able to receive this support. Moreover, this regulation, which you will see later in the draft law, provides that authors are entitled to ask for support to cover social contributions from the State Culture Capital Foundation, but nowhere says that the State Culture Capital Fund has such an obligation to compensate for growth. This means that the whole area will have a huge uncertainty about their payments and income during this time of insecurity.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U206	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U207	Hello, honourable colleagues! I will speak as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and I would like to remind you that the draft law stipulates that a self-employed person who obtained the status of a creative person in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations and whose subject of compulsory contributions per year is less than 12 minimum monthly wages set by the Cabinet of Ministers, is entitled to request financial support from the State Culture Capital Fund in the programme of measures to support creative persons. The State Culture Capital Fund shall make the minimum compulsory contributions for self-employed persons in the special budget of state social insurance. Contrary to what the opposition has repeatedly said about humiliation... No, it is a support mechanism similar to that of creative persons in Lithuania, and the specificities of the sector must be taken into account. In situations where some creative work is made in a much longer period and exceeds the limits of one calendar year, such support can be very useful and acceptable in an empty period. With the help of the State Culture Capital Fund (and it is a big money), 1.7 million euros will be allocated for the amortisation of the increase in costs due to tax changes for the recipients of royalties - both cultural creative persons and the creative persons employed in the media. Even as an improvement of the bill, it should be noted that if a self-employed person predicts that his income will not reach the object of a minimum contribution in the second half of 2021, the person will be able to pay from actual income by submitting to the State Revenue Service a statement of the income planned for the quarter. So that the aid will be and is now.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U208	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U209	Mr Janson, I am really glad that even small but funding is earmarked for the State Culture Capital Fund. And I was happy to hear that you mentioned the media sector today, because a few days ago, when we discussed this issue at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, I asked what would happen to journalists who would fall out of the status of a creative person. The answer of the Ministry of Culture was that the Association of Journalists, the Association should agree with the Latvian Creative People's Union on the possibility to apply for this support from the State Culture Capital Fund. But I am absolutely convinced that with this funding the State Culture Capital Fund will not be enough and administration will be relatively difficult so that its support may not be received in time. Moreover, colleagues, if up to now the authors' remunerations contracting entities could count on a relatively simple process, because all the formalities and tax payments could be carried out by the authors' remuneration payer - the company or the institution - and its accountant, now you also put all these creative persons in the role of hostage with this extremely complicated administration. Since Mr Janson even mentioned that - and this is already true for the second half of next year - if we want to pay less than the minimum social contributions from the minimum wage, then every quarter (and this applies not only to authors but to all the self-employed) - every quarter! - will have to submit an application to the State Revenue Service, trying to predict the amount of income of the next quarter. Ask the creative persons how stable they have the amount of income, how predictable they will be. Finally, you greatly increase the administrative burden for authors, accountants, the State Revenue Service, the State Social Insurance Agency. In the budget too, you will see, additional funds will be needed to adapt your systems to the SRS and to manage it at all.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U210	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U211	The Commission did not support this proposal, 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U212	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Valaiņa, Dūkes, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskas and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 54, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U213	4. is the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to exclude Article 3 of the draft law. This is due to the fact that we have abandoned our intention to impose social contributions on the self-employed from 2023 on all income. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U214	Members are in favour. Wait! Proposal 4 was put to the vote. Can we go back to four? Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The Members... Proposal by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission Please, let's vote! For -56, for -6, for -14. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U215	5. - Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis' proposal on the rule of Article 3 of the law on the elimination of Article 6, paragraph 3.2 of the law, which provides for the maintenance of the insurance regime for an economic operator who makes patent payments. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U216	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U217	Colleagues, right now (Interfaces.) ... patent payments made for an economic activity in the amount of 50 or 100 euros... insurance of these patent-payers, they are subject to pension insurance and disability insurance, but no unemployment included in this insurance. With less money being paid, there is also a smaller basket of services coming from the country, but that means that those self-employed people, in a way, should be said to be invoiced. Mr Janson mentioned the example of Lithuania in his previous discussions on the previous paragraph, where the authors also have support from the state social contributions. I do not know whether such support is available to authors in this country, but what I know is that there are no minimum social contributions in Lithuania for the self-employed, now patent-payers. In a way, like... in similar forms, because it is very well understood that this is a form of economic activity where a person takes care of himself, of how much he has earned, and of himself taking care of his insurance, on account of the fact that, if less social contributions are made, there is also a smaller insurance service that is received from the State. Colleagues, what is proposed in the People's Income Tax Act is a proposal to eliminate in general the legal form of current tax payments, such as a patent fee. And again, it could even be considered in peacetime by offering some other good regime for these small operators, who are hairdressers, who are photographers, naughters and other groups. Then it could be understood, but it is a total madness to do so at the moment. One of the reasons why these groups have chosen the patent fee regime because, I said, in regions turnover tax... not turnover tax, but this patent payment of 50 or 100 euro is not so small at all if we look at how it is made up of turnover. Even if EUR 50... Well, those 500 euros to be a 10 per cent turnover tax, for example, the hairdresser in the region has a lot to do to earn this amount a month. But one reason they chose it is simple accounting. You pay a patent fee, you work legally, and you have to register your income in a free form, even in a form that makes life much easier. Now, by eliminating this regime, you say that they must find another tax regime. Should I work for someone? Most likely, during this time of crisis, the photographer will hardly be able to just get a job in his field, go as a seller or builder, or re-qualify in any other way, as well as hairdressers and buds. Or try to become a self-employed person, who, together with your new proposals... in order not to pay social contributions and at least minimum wages, he will be required to communicate with the State Revenue Service on a quarterly basis, trying to predict how much he will earn in the next quarter. And with a tumultuous heart at the end of the year, it must be hoped that there will be no tax conversion that will make this little businessman pay off. We call for the patent fee regime to be maintained, not to eliminate it at the moment, especially if there is no convenient, easily understandable tax regime instead.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U218	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U219	Colleagues! See and... If there is such a peculiar fight against the shadow economy, which can otherwise not be called, it must also be returned and recalled where its patent fees... why, in general, such a regime has been introduced. One of the main reasons is what Mrs Reizniece-Ozola said: hairdressers, photographers and other professions working in this regime, simply to pay taxes, some kind of taxes... either, to be motivated to register, this regime has been introduced. Imagine, now they have to move to the next taxpayer's regime, and then this patent-payer, who has so far recorded and paid everything out (not hearable). ... charges, imposing an obligation to forecast quarterly turnover in order to be able to pay taxes. I think the Ministry of Finance could hardly predict a quarterly budget revenue forecast at the moment. Of course, there is something already, but I think to put that right on the heart and say that it will be like that - hardly anyone can afford something at all at this moment, because these predictions are changing in particular at the moment, and where else to make it happen to people who do not have specific knowledge. Under such circumstances, we can see that choices in this case, too, are likely to fall in favour of the shadow economy. In this case, I must remind you of the views expressed by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry that here too very much links... and also the patent fee payers, I think, at the moment it happens... The economic downturn is already taking place... Already in this way, the state should be happy for anyone who still pays taxes after everything that has been done with regard to cut-off benefits. But after all... these attitudes from the government towards what is happening at this time of crisis, specifically towards small entrepreneurs, patent-payers and others... We had the opportunity to talk to the Saeima with these businessmen, so let us call them, who had come to the protest campaign. Well, those stories are sad. And now these stories are even worse in the regions. In contrast to the nature of any support mechanism, an equivalent support mechanism, without simply putting... people say you'll take care of your... Social cushion... in the sense of the future. People need this social cushion today, now, not sometime, after some time. Today you have to think about how people eat, especially given that a fifth of the savings is just... A fifth of Latvia's population has enough savings for only one month. We need to think about tax regimes so that people can pay them, easily manage them, and this is definitely the case. I, my fellow Members, call for this proposal to be supported. And think about what you are doing here. Because when you drive these people back into the apartments, you pull them back into the envelope, you pull them back into the shadow economy, get out and regain confidence in the country, and get the sense that taxes are right to pay, I think it will be very difficult. Because now that very many people go for social assistance, for health care... face huge rows and forced to go to private medical institutions. Colleagues, this situation needs to change in some way. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U220	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U221	Dear colleagues, What we had begun with the previous government when we had another 12. Saeima, - this careful, perhaps not always flattened path to our compatriots' return to Latvia... We also had a very beautiful start for the Diaspora Law and the Return Programme. It is completely damaged at the moment by the new government, not by the new government, but by the government of Kariņš, probably to some extent only doing something understandable to them, a certain task of completely releasing Latvia from the people. For for what are the women, the manicure masters, the cosmetologists, who were at the Saeima on Monday, rejoiced at this moment, then were at the Cabinet of Ministers? I will tell you what they are now happy about, what a message they have learned. They were pleased that Mrs. Viņķele was ready to meet with representatives of the Association of Cosmeticians and Cosmetologists in Latvia. So they are happy with some hope that is likely to result in a simple talk at the end. But they are just happy that they have the chance to hope for some outcome, that they may be given the opportunity to work. Listen to me! For you who have guaranteed income until the next Saeima elections, nothing will change, but these people have now been left entirely without means. As we have already said, only a small part may have some savings for a month, but that month is already over for many if we count from October 14. There is no benefit, so far nobody knows. People simply look forward to being allowed to do something for them to earn money. In fact, we should all now show the greatest respect for those people who are still able to earn their livelihoods at this time, in these abnormal circumstances, and also to carry one or two euro to you, honourable Members, so that you have a salary. Because what you are doing right now is putting extra stress, extra burden on this one... Let us take the example of a certain person, so this woman, who was at the Saeima on Monday, was her manicure master. Look at them, tell them that you're going to go to the accountants, make them transform the way they work, pay for the accountants' service and hope... and hope that it will also be all that no new amendments will come to your mind again. And then hope that these people will gladly stay in Latvia, that they will not leave anywhere... Well, colleagues, I don't know. Mr Zakatistova may, however, finally have joined the sitting and has gone into this situation and on this matter. Perhaps we will finally expect Mr Zakaistov's comment, because when he presented the budget, he was ready to talk about almost every bill. Now we can't hear anything. Mr Zakatistova, we very much call on you, as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, to comment on this draft law, why you are so hostile to people. Please tell me what that idea is. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U222	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U223	Colleagues! Already in the spring, patent-payers were in an unpunished situation, because they were indeed a group that could not qualify for the opt-out, despite the fact that a large part of them were prevented from working or having practical restrictions, their insurance did not include social support for unemployment. This means that they have all the discussions that we have been talking about today... eight or nine months, or the amount of the allowance there, is also completely past because they cannot obtain such support. And now, even at this time, when the masters of beauty, mostly masters, have a total ban on working with the law, there is still “good” news that we are going to completely eliminate the patent fee regime as such, not allowing people to work themselves. Also for the part not referring to the State, local authorities after social benefits. On that background, of course, colleagues seem indeed sad that the Head of Government and Ministers are planning to add more than EUR 200 each month to their representation expenses and salary supplement next year. It's money with which some of these beauty masters, especially in regions, even survive for a month. I saw in the public space that instead of having a debate here at the Saeima sitting, the UK Members did not mind the way in which the budget failed and that they would come with a proposal to reduce the salary for ministers. You tell us, colleagues, how long we need to take the debate further so that you have time to produce a proposal, because you know very clearly that there is no proposal at present to reduce ministerial salaries anymore in the budget package. The only one that you voted against a few days ago was ours.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U224	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U225	Thank you. For patent payers. The choice of patent payers to work in this particular regime is their free choice, aware of the consequences of the reduced social security package. Given that the draft law proposed by the government and currently discussed does not provide for an increase or extension of the range of social benefits due to these changes directly to the patent payers, it is indeed correct, especially in the light of the economic downturn... It is not too wise to leave the existence of this regime and the freedom of choice for those working in this field. In particular, given that the tax package, which is in conjunction with the budget, does not provide a model situation for the behaviour of the taxpayers currently present and operating under this regime, there is no model for other possible instruments that could be used if the regime were to be wound up during the crisis. I therefore believe that this kind of instrument - patent payment for those working in this area - should be maintained at the moment and supported by this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U226	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U227	Colleagues! It may seem that we are talking only about hairdressers and photographers. I would like to point out that there are, for example, physiotherapists in this category, the same massiers, caretakers, helpers in home work, stings, florists, floristists, wood-ploughs specialists, experts in various objects, manufacturers of soft and wood toys, potters, blacksmiths, lock-lockers, music instrument musicians, art makers of textiles, leather and related materials, tailors, clothes, cutters... Its profession area is quite limited, which can work, and it is a much broader set of specialists than just hairdressers and photographers. But each one of these professions is very respectful, and every one of these professions, if we look at the amount of the patent fee that must be paid, it is some kind of tax revenue, it is some legal position in which the patent payer, the craftsman, is in relation to the country. It is a matter of taking responsibility and working. However, in this case, I do not think that every stinger or disengageer knows at all today and whether tomorrow will know what changes he is expected from 1 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U228	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U229	Dear Latvian society! Member Viktors Valainis listed a number of professions. If you have not heard it, then after this live broadcast from the Republic of Latvia, be sure to look at the Saeima. All these people who work in these professions must remember that now, while you sit and wait for a miracle, laws are being passed that will make your life worse from 1 January. It's getting worse. The only solution to change this is to show solidarity and to go with the same people who are the taxpayers of micro-enterprises, with those people who are demanding the depression of the Minister of Education Šuplinsk, with those doctors who are dissatisfied with Latvia as the least in the European Union, say, the paid sector during the crisis and in such a spirit, unite and start to defend their rights at last, because I must only repeat - all these proposals, especially on the budgetary issue... as you see, we've been looking at the budget for days... The majority of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, that is, the coalition of power, those in power - New Unity, New Conservative Party, KPV LV, “Development/About!” The National Union, I hope I didn't forget anyone between... These are people who will reject absolutely all the proposals. That's the deal. Such an agreement is, of course, not reached in the Saeima, but somewhere outside the Saeima. At the moment, you see that a voting machine is taking place at the time of the adoption of the budget and how the machine simply goes over. There is no real discussion, apart from the micro-enterprises tax, which was a little discussion by Krišjānis Feldman, but there is in principle no discussion, and this machine will vote for everything against you in times of crisis. Why? That explanation is very simple. The explanation is that mathematically it has been calculated that you, dear people, those who will be affected by these changes in taxation, in terms of your income, in terms of your social protection, in terms of your social security, in terms of your social insurance and everything else, are not an elite of the power parties. Power parties estimate that a part of the public sector, which employs approximately 300 000 people, will vote for power parties, and in this way these power parties believe that they will have enough. If you do not believe in my explanation, you can read it purely mathematically, how many parties to power have voted together. It's about... There will be a little more, but there will be about those limits because, for example, about 50,000 votes for the New Unity - 56 or something like that... thousands of citizens of the Republic of Latvia, the smallest of all parties. And in this context, for all those people who will remain unemployed, instead of hobbling the coffers to travel to other countries, there is still an opportunity to change it all. And that's a chance... Because what do we have that opportunity? We can, of course, change the budget. The budget may be amended on a daily basis. This can be done by Parliament. But to change the budget, you need your response. And it must be massive. It must be clear, and this clear reaction can only be caused in one way. And that one way is mass for all these people who were listed by Viktors Valainis, for all professions, from photographers and hairdressers to house-servers and mowers - everyone has to go to the streets! Absolutely! Aldis Blumbergs, a man who promised that he would never be in the government of New Unity, will speak behind me. Now he's...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U230	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U231	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to emphasise that, as a self-employed person, those who currently use patent fees as a form of tax payment can register for the payment of taxes on self-employed persons. Apart from being subject to only pension and disability insurance at present, they will receive contributions from the minimum wage, they will also be subject to maternity and sickness insurance, as well as to health insurance and parental insurance, and therefore to incapacity for work, which is an essential form of supplementary insurance. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U232	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Valaiņa, Dūkes, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskas and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! - 29, against - 55, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U233	The proposal tabled by Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Many, Dūklavs, Jalinskis, Kučinskis and Bergmanis provides for the exclusion of Article 5 of the draft law. This Article lays down two exceptions to the members of the board of public limited liability companies, including workers to whom compulsory social security contributions are transferred from another Member State, in accordance with the Regulation, where it is possible in such cases to... In other words, it is not necessary to comply with a maximum period of 60 days by which these persons may be registered back as socially insured persons. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U234	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U235	Proposal 7 has also been submitted by Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Many, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskis and Bergmanis. This proposal provides for the exclusion of Article 6 of the draft law, while also excluding references to relevant provisions from points 75 and 77 of the transitional provisions in Article 18 of the draft law. This article, which they propose to exclude, changes the subject of compulsory contributions to the self-employed. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U236	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U237	Colleagues! This is one of the proposals, part of the package of proposals, which seeks to abolish the concept proposed by the government at first reading in this law, which provides for a very rapid increase in social contributions for the self-employed... gradually, but very quickly, but within a few years. True, for the second reading, the government recently appeared and at least offered some relief for the second half of the following year. If the income is lower than the minimum wage, then the self-employed will actually be taxed... social contributions will be increased from five per cent to 10 per cent by shifting it to pension insurance. But in order to be able to pay this tax in the amount of 10 percent rather than full social contributions every quarter, the self-employed will have to register with the State Revenue Service... not to register, but to provide forecasts of expected income for the following quarter. As a result, as we have been told, no matter what the tax will have to pay from actual revenue. At the end of the year, a conversion will take place after 12 months. All of this has still been given the responsibility of the government to come with a proposal by the middle of next year, which will take place in 2022 and beyond. This means that the sword is still hanged over the heads of the self - employed. It is most likely that after half a year, we will again see a pleasant surprise with the government's proposal to introduce social contributions regardless of the amount of income and the self-employed, probably also from the entire amount of income, which will significantly increase the tax burden on this group of taxpayers. Why are there forecasts that this is exactly what will happen? Because we have still not seen the medium-term budget change figures and reduced tax revenues from social contributions in the coming years. Somehow that money will have to be grounded. But, unfortunately, this proves to a large extent that a small derogation from the government at the moment, even on the last night of the coalition meeting behind closed doors, trying to understand what to do, so that there is no social explosion now before the adoption of the budget... we clearly understand that it is a time purchase, colleagues, so that there can be some sort of agreement between five parties and the adoption of this budget, because it was obvious that in society, at last, taxpayers also understood... began to understand how rapid the tax growth was expected to be, and dissatisfied grew rapidly. Colleagues, the Ministry of Finance itself shows in its presentations that we currently have 92 536 economic operators following planned tax changes. Some time will pass, but after the planned changes in taxes, the Ministry of Finance plans that 27.5 thousand or 30 percent of all taxpayers will remain in this regime. 32,000, even more, to cross into paid employment. We remember an additional 32 000 of the micro-enterprises who will look for work at the same time as the self-employed. And 32,000, as it has been formulated here, will not generate any income from this tax regime. 32,000 people! What happens to them next is not said. All this is in a situation where we still have extremely high levels of unemployment in the regions, especially in the Latgale region, it remains at the level of 13 percent. And it does not seem that the next few months, with all these new restrictions, could bring a positive perspective. Colleagues! I call on Members to support this proposal, all the others, which abolish all these foolish increases in taxes, increases in social contributions. At least some sense of security for the next few years. Government Even (A Sound Break) ... can receive tasks, we can also ourselves (A sound break.) ... to delegate to them the duty to come next year with a reasonable, balanced, thoughtful special. — Sound Break. ... the implementation plan. But it is clear that such a plan must also be prepared at a time when it is clear what will happen to the economy, not in this situation, when the government itself does not know what will happen next Monday.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U238	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U239	About 100,000 self-employed... in this area, and what we are calling for, we really call for the existing regulation to be maintained. We are not calling for an opt-out and for the self-employed to be completely tax-free to continue living. We are calling for the regulation that is in force at the moment to be left. And all these proposals are directly aimed at maintaining the existing framework. What will happen after New Year... Of course, the number of self-employed is not small, but I am absolutely sure that a very large proportion of those working in this regime today do not know who will wait for them in the new year, which will wait for them in the year... In the middle of next year, because simply with these changes they will get acquainted with the accounting officers and the State Revenue Service. At that point, they will get a full description of what, let us say, Christmas gifts have been provided by the Saeima for them in the field of social security, which they have at the moment, the most important. I would like to remind you once again that all these negotiations on these social security amendments started only at the moment when the question of idle benefits arose. And, of course, the Ministry of Finance used it successfully and turned it so that, you see, these people do not have social guarantees, they are left without income, somehow we have to help them. In normal economic conditions, these self-employed... they do not come to the government and do not require any support. They're working... They work just like all the big companies in the country, they work, they deserve, they're fine. In times of crisis... This is why there is already an emergency situation in the country, where we are in circumstances where we need help, and not only the small but also the large, very large, and even the very large, very large need this help. And it doesn't matter what kind of payments they have made. It is very silly to try to compare these self-employed with a medium-sized company with completely different development opportunities. Self-employed... I wish any businessman - micro-entrepreneur, patent fee payer, self-employed, anyone I wish to switch to SIA regime, anyone I wish to become a big businessman. And there are many examples that have started from small production facilities. In Jelgava, for example, the Caramel Workshop has started its activities in a multi-storey apartment and is now successfully exporting its products; there are even several factories and... have also been production facilities open in the Baltic States. Good examples have been given, and they have begun with such regimes. And these are the ones that help them in their initial business phase. And these are people who are able to take care of themselves, they have chosen this way - not to work in a company, but to create, produce, work so that we can all be happy for them if they are successful. If they're on average... and maybe, even if there is no growth, they still work, they are in some normal tax regime. And when these people are in trouble, the worst thing you can do is to let them know that they have not paid any tax or something else. They must help regardless of their tax situation. At the moment, they are simply being punished instead of aid. I think they've been punished in the most difficult time for them in their business phase. And for everyone other than those who receive the remuneration of the state budget, except for members of our government, too, the parliamentary secretaries, who, as has already been mentioned, celebrate the increase in wages... It would, however, be worth explaining and participating in this debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U240	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U241	Yeah, thank you. I may not agree with what Mr Valaiņa said about big companies working. The big state-owned companies, starting with the Covid-19 crisis, such as the Latvian Railways, released about... up to a thousand people... staff. airBaltic, which is also a public company, dismissed about 1500 employees. That's how this workforce... the number of people moved to the social budget and unemployment benefits respectively or sought employment in other areas. ‘ The Latvian economy faced the Covid-19 crisis at a time when its economic growth started to break down as a result of economic cyclicality, a reduction in transit (freight) and the "capital repairs" of the banking sector. As a result, the economy had to face a double negative burden." I quote from the opinion of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. At the same time, when proposing the next year's budget package, the government intended to equalise the fiscal space with measures affecting the most vulnerable groups and income recipients, which so far did not claim, and also took into account, the risks that they might be less socially protected when they operate in this area. You know, when force majeure occurs, the state chooses to protect state-owned capital companies, even though these companies lay off workers, forcing them to become potential unemployed. At the same time, the government and the ruling coalition are achieving an increase in the tax burden on those categories of citizens and taxpayers who themselves provide with a living and still minimal but tax. I believe that this proposal should be supported. And there is neither the right time nor the right place for the offers offered by the government and the governing politicians. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U242	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U243	Colleagues! I would like to remind you of the sadly painful statistics that experts said at the public conference on the risk of poverty in the European Union just mid-year: Latvia still has the second highest risk of poverty and social exclusion in the European Union. 434 thousand Latvians or 22.9 percent of Latvians live on or below the poverty line, and the highest risk of poverty in Latvia is for the unemployed - 57.7 percent. And in this context... Yes, by the way, such a sharp drop in that poverty indicator - it's us... the overall race in the European Union is not significantly improved - it took place in 2018, when the minimum wage was rapidly increased. The tax reform was introduced into the personal income tax... an unlimited minimum and relief, and substantial support was provided for large families of children. No such improvement has subsequently taken place. But in this situation, colleagues, risking 64 000 taxpayers being expelled from this tax regime and becoming unemployed, once again putting them at risk of poverty and not giving them the chance to earn themselves - it is not a work of the mind. It's going to be so deep after the communion crisis that you're not sure you're going to want to lose everything. Most likely, hurry away from this government.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U244	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U245	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to point out that this definition of the subject-matter of compulsory contributions for self-employed workers, in accordance with the transitional provisions laid down in the draft law, will only apply from 1 January 2023. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U246	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U247	8 / 8 - the proposal from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. It is envisaged to supplement Article 6 of the draft law with a new paragraph, which provides, in substance, that the subject of compulsory contributions by the State from the general budget and special budgets may not be set by the Cabinet below the minimum monthly wage. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U248	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U249	Good evening, Members! This is about compulsory contributions (not to be heard) ... from the general government budget (not available.) ... What is it? I will remind Members and all those who look at us now that they are mandatory contributions from the national budget to pension insurance and to ensure that they are not unemployed. From the special budget for employment - also for pension insurance, from the special budget for disability, maternity and sickness... as well as pension insurance, unemployment insurance and invalidity insurance, as well as the special budget for occupational accidents, where the person's disability or illness is caused by an accident at work or an occupational disease. The Group of the Social Democratic Party shall propose that the object of these mandatory contributions, as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, may not be less than the minimum monthly wage set by the Cabinet of Ministers. Whoever, but the state must be consistent. If, indeed, a minimum contribution is introduced in the interests of social support for citizens, then the state must also fulfil its obligations. And in those cases where a person is insured from the general budget or from the social budget, as is the case most frequently, the insurance must be at least equal to the minimum monthly wage. We call for support for our group's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U250	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U251	Yes, colleagues! I also call for support to be given to this proposal by my colleagues, because it really shows consistency and the genuine intention of the government and the state representatives to really take care of the social security of every citizen of Latvia. And if self-employed workers, payers, micro-entrepreneurs, including those working under the general scheme are required to be fully insured, whether they have it in 2023 or not, and, moreover, the self-employed must also be consistent in the calculation of the amount of income in those cases... Mr Pimenova mentioned an example of when the State makes these contributions, at least minimum social contributions should be provided. Without this, I would also like to draw attention to what was raised by the business organisation's discussion within the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax)... and has also mentioned in its letters that there is now another group that has remained outside the country's sight. If those who are currently working try to earn their own income at least in part, rather than doing nothing, then they will be obliged to have more and more social insurance every year, while those who are capable of working, who are probably not working at all, are not subject to any obligation. The State does not pay social security contributions for them either, so that if they have any difficulties, such as illness, they can receive adequate support from the State. Again, another example of a certain degree of inconsistency, which clearly needs to be addressed. And this is, in my opinion, one good proposal that helps to do so. I call on you to support the proposal of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U252	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U253	Colleagues! I also call for support to be given to our colleagues in the opposition... Proposal submitted by the Group of the People's Republic of China. In my opinion, Mr Pimenova and Mrs Reizniece–Ozola also told us very well. I would ask my fellow Members to focus on the documents annexed to this draft law, which follow it. They are the most diverse calls of organisations to look at this draft law as such. But I will turn to my colleagues in the coalition when it comes to this proposal. Well, we're so three days away. The parliamentary meeting is currently taking place here, a debate on proposal 8, which also involves a small amount of government action. And now I see that there is an active debate in the parallel world about the fact that ministers still... And the members of the government speak... Representatives of the government are talking about the fact that ministers should still reduce wages. That's the three-day delay. I think maybe a three-day delay would be necessary, and maybe we could stop this sitting until Monday. Perhaps the Members will have changed their views not only on the remuneration of the Minister and the President of Latvia, but also on this issue. Maybe that's the way that's going to be understood in some way. I would like to thank Mrs Indricksones: for the first time today, I hear that someone really explains on behalf of the Commission the substance of the draft law, the meaning of how well this can be done in these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U254	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U255	The Commission did not support the proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U256	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 31, against - 52, abstaining - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U257	9. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Article 6 of the draft law provides for the exclusion of the eighteenth and nineteenth parts (Article 14 of the law). Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U259	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Article 8 of the draft law is to be excluded. Article 8 provides, in other words, that the status of the patent payer should no longer be retained. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U260	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U261	Well, colleagues, we, in turn, strongly call on you to retain the patent payers. I can also say thank you to Mrs Indricksones that indeed... For the first time, it can be seen that the Commissioner is trying to look into the draft law and the proposals and to reflect their idea correctly. But colleagues also commented on one of the previous proposals on maintaining the patent fee on behalf of the Commission that if patent-payers become self-employed and pay more social contributions, the huge benefit will be full social insurance. Indeed, full social insurance will be, but, colleagues, it will come together with much higher payments. And even now, patent fee payers could choose... the self-employed regime could be chosen and social contributions increased. Self-employed workers are not denied this. If more than the minimum wage is earned, then more social contributions can be made to guarantee it is also adequate, but the share of the patent payers and those who have opted for the regime does not choose this option, just as the micro-enterprises tax regime does not. And especially after the micro-enterprises tax regime, whether limiting - raising the rate and reducing the extra activity - some of the former micro-businesses who did not need employees have moved to the patent fee regime apparently because it is financially more advantageous. And the second factor is the simplicity of this regime. Well, I like... I remember one interview last year with one patent fee payer, watchmaker. Kaspars Brokan. A public interview in which he says why he chose to be a patent fee payer. ‘ With a patent fee,” I now quote, “all things are simple, accounting practically does not exist, because only once a quarter has to submit used receipts. I don't need a cashier, I can issue cheques on request. Most do not even ask for a check, but I usually explain that a check is also a guarantee for the work done.” Very much, in my opinion, a good example, where a person himself offers to issue a cheque. And that's what I think is a good comment that banks also look good enough on patent payers, which I think is interesting, because banks are usually very sceptical on small... tax regime... payers, where there is a need for e.g. mortgage credit. Well then the patent fee payer, watchmaker, says yes that he has a positive experience with credit institutions. He also admits that social contributions are not so high, but if there is a need for a reasonable amount of money, the banks are acceptable, and now, in any case, this watchmaker working in this tax regime sees a number of advantages why it is for him who does not need other employees who care for his own income that this regime is the best, although indeed, as I say, it is not very cheap. And this regime, like the micro-enterprises tax regime, was introduced in 2010. Well, I do not know the whole motivation, but I assume that partly also as such a post-crisis solution, so that at the time when there was huge unemployment, when there was a huge shadow economy, one legal way to pay taxes to such self-employed persons, to do their work without fear of the State Revenue Service and to work in good faith, taking care of their income, also being partially insured, 67 per cent of the patent fee is transferred to social contributions. That is not the right time now, my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U262	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U263	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues, I will also try to continue in some way to convince you that, however, this patent fee regime, although it does not work so much... I think that the total revenue from this regime is not so large that it can now save the Latvian economy, certainly not. I think that the benefits that society will derive from this will not be in proportion to the losses that will be incurred by the patent payers who are currently operating under this regime, both administratively and in terms of the amount of taxes. And also for their own protection, as is basically mentioned for the abolition of this regulation in general, it is for these people to have social guarantees. Nor do I think that at the moment when they need these social guarantees, when they want to receive them, they will be - which the state will be able to provide to them to such an extent... The experiments they expect from all this - that they will be in such a way as to be able to meet in some way the needs they will have. And then... You promised that you would take care of these people! I think when they see the amount of these concerns in terms of money, it might be that they will be rather disappointed about this approach as such. At the moment when he pays a patent fee, currently choosing this regime, he has clear rules of play, and even when something bad happens to him... Also, I believe that if a person has to help and if he... he's in such a situation, he's got to help. Whether the municipality does so or the state is doing it through any programme - that is simply what it is, and that is the duty of all of us. Our primary responsibility is to care for those who are unable to take care of themselves or who are in difficulty. In this respect, I would like to quote a part of the letter addressed to the parliamentary commission and all parliamentary groups by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry: “At the same time, in view of the economic turmoil caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, which creates uncertainty about the time and resources required for economic recovery, as well as the fact that the draft law contains a number of technical uncertainties and legal structures that will not contribute to the achievement of the defined objective, the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry does not support further progress of the draft law.” And now, also for the second reading that we are now... voting, nothing has changed in substance. I still believe that there is now a whole group of huge people who are simply... When Mr. Gobzem... I could have objected to Mr Gobzem when I named these patent pay-off groups - log-outs, tailors, photographers, a variety of hairdressers, stuns and those working in these professions... I think and I'm absolutely sure, it's not... and is not in any way opposed simply because of the many thousands who work in both self-employed, micro and many regimes... And I am very happy that these people have a job, there is something to do, and I think that much of the public is not interested at what we are doing here today, what we are fighting for here today. They do their job and are enthusiastic about their work. Unfortunately, they will only find out about these changes when they come into force, colleagues! And that'll be the worst. This will be the worst of all, because today, I think, many of the people who will be subject to these disproportionate changes do not know what is waiting for them next year. They just work and do their job.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U264	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U265	And again, Mr. Valaiņš, I have a little bit of opposition to you. First of all, as we know, then I'm a little interested in a photo myself, and I'm in the chat... a thought exchange site where all Latvian photographers are present. I think that it is absolutely clear to me what all Latvian photographers think about our Parliament. I have direct and direct contact with them. Secondly, all my previous practice has been related to self-employed work in a field where everyone is working in this field... In particular, in the context of the case law. I think that those people all think very clearly exactly the same about the Latvian Parliament and the ruling coalition, and this applies to most of these areas, which think exactly the same. I had a sewerage master here. He also thinks exactly the same about the existing government, and the problem is that we have to move from them to take active action. If we want to protect the interests of our people, it will not be enough for Member Gobzem to negotiate - which is already falling on the nerves all the time - that Mr Valaiņš will not be able to negotiate or Mrs Stepanenko or Mrs Reizniece-Ozola. It is necessary for society as a whole to start demanding, and it must be explained to this society that, from 1 January, taxation will be raised for those who are most socially protected, namely those who take care of themselves and not those who are cared for by the state or those who are employees, for example, in large companies, which still have the opportunities to keep up work and so on. That's why it's important, and I can explain it by being in this photographer - it's just an example - a domain exchange site... There has been a sharp and radical drop in the amount of work, because you can't take a wedding, you can't take a picture of other events, you can't go abroad to make normal, say, commercial photo shoots and everything else. And so we can go through all the professions. We can also go through the profession in such a way that objective people have less money left on their hands to spend on them. As a result, they are less good watches, shoes, now they live the way they have been, and it directly affects everyone now. I do not doubt that these people are working, but I do not want to say that they are not interested, they do not have time to follow Parliament's work, but they are not interested in parliamentary work, because people are already completely disappointed in Parliament. And disappointed also with Parliament's capacity to protect society, say, in the field of social security. The public's confidence in Parliament that Parliament will take care of Latvian society is close to zero. There can't just be under zero, there can't be minus, the lowest is zero, so. I think there is no other institution or organisation to which less would be entrusted. So, Mr Valaiņš, please, in my direction, do not make any accusations in the future about photography and about the people who make patent payments, and also help me to call everyone to wake up, to stand up and to protect themselves, not only by complaining about how they do not care, but to take and start active activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U266	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U267	Dear colleagues, I remember that last year - when we debated the lack of medical pay and the seven-fold allocation of party funding - the coalition found one small pioneer... considered that it would be enough. And it was Members' salaries. Members' salaries were only frozen, and then the coalition was able to continue with such a calm heart to do its work. Now, as we can see, the UK has found the pioneer - the ministers' salaries. We can see that all news portals are now talking only about the fact that the brave UK has encouraged and forced the coalition colleagues in fact to agree with the words that ministers' salaries should not be raised. Well, they met, they agreed, and they agreed that the ministers did not have a salary... Ministers do not deserve an increase in wages. Okay, of course, they didn't show it in their works, we already missed... they missed this opportunity, so they voted in favour of freezing the ministers' salaries. That is clear. But if, my colleagues, you think, by leaving such a sacrifice and trying to raise political points for yourself at the expense of it, trying in every way everywhere... tell all journalists how you are fighting now that ministers will be less cake than usual, then you are wrong, because by destroying these regimes you are offering to review not really what you have done, but simply, well, a populist move here after you have voted against the freezing of ministerial salaries. Now you have considered this and only in words you are going to say: ministers do not deserve an increase in wages. If, for example, Mr. Feldman, who told all the media today about this... If Mr Feldman believes that ministers do not deserve an increase in wages, then most likely ministers do not deserve an increase in wages because ministers have offered the Saeima a very bad, poor budget. Only the fact that one of the ministries has not come and has not spoken in the debate does not mean that it is enough. In fact, the fact that you are currently saying that ministers are working badly also means that ministers have poorly prepared this year's main national document. Not because they're not talking much. You all talk a little, the honourable coalition, but you probably do a good job, as you believe, but the ministers are not working well. So, now, bring that budget back to the government, recycle. Will be bad, will be all very bad, you'll just lose even below these points, will not minus 68, but minus all 99. And it won't be okay. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U268	Time to break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U269	Dear colleagues, We will continue the budget session. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance””. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U270	Colleagues, we are returning to the debate on whether and why it is worth maintaining the patent fee regime. I would like to draw attention to the extent to which the number of payers is high and what could then be the intended effect of changing their tax regime. We currently have roughly (not heard.) ... patent fee payers, some of them reduced fee payers - pensioners, people with disabilities - who will also be able to benefit from this regime, while others, colleagues - are 0.3 percent of the people employed in the country. If you really think this is a problem, this is the tax treatment that leads to huge distortions of competition in the country, or it's where in some way... who does not bring enough resources, like such a black hole in the budget works, then, obviously, it is not. You too, by imposing a greater tax burden on these taxpayers - you will not thirst out the budget and will not extinguish the biggest historic debt. I think much more should be concerned about the fact that once again the headings are appearing, that in the spring airBaltic may return to additional support from the government. 286 million already invested there, it looks like... Well, like Bermuda in the triangle. And we should have discussed such investments in the Saeima in a very detailed and much more active way than has been done so far. In turn, UK colleagues. I also call on you to do so when you prepare your proposal on not increasing the ministerial salaries, perhaps it is worth further improvement, perhaps it will be possible for you to reach a compromise in the coalition. Make it possible, however, for ministers to get a pass from Old Riga, and perhaps we could also maintain the patent fee regime and grant each of the ministers a year in place of higher wages.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U271	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U272	Yes, colleagues! First of all, I would like to draw attention - a bit of technical... That's what's left of every... Every break is followed by a lighthouse. Hope you hear me right. I would like to respond to Mr Gobzem. Of course, photographers... As Dana Reizniece-Ozola has already said, 0.3 percent of all of us are those we are talking about - patent fee payers. The photographers are about five hundred who... I let you, if you are in that environment, then you could know a part, perhaps even a large part, of them, but there are more than a thousand hairdressers, there are also kids who make up a large part of the patent payers. And I'm in that comment when I turned to the fact that a lot of people don't know... I had thought more about this comment. I also thought of micro-enterprises as taxable persons. Of course, there are many who show their displeasure, there have been several protests, but I think the biggest one... Unfortunately, the vast majority of these amendments have not been fully informed. And they will receive full information only after the communication of the State Revenue Service... In the State Revenue Service, when these... will enter into force. Moreover, I think that for the vast majority of the Saeima, it would already be difficult for a hairdresser to say today what his life will be like after 1 January. I think that would be a great challenge for every Member of the Saeima and also for the Minister. And there's nothing to do with the ministers, my colleagues. This is the work of the Saeima and the responsibility of Members of the Saeima to debate these issues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U273	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U274	Mr. Valaiņš, I have to protest again and say that, despite my liquid hair, I always go to the hairdresser. And the hairdressers also ask me what life will then be like. I must also say, quite honestly, that it will lead to such a plan and not too much prosperity. And it is also fair to say to people that this will be so until the people wake up. Not only for hairdressers, but for all other patent payers, all private sector will have rather harsh conditions from 1 January, they are already harsh, but they will be even more harsh. And in this context... I have already said everything in principle, but the main emphasis is in fact: society, you must understand that this is also what the media write, what the social networks write, this is already the great restart, as English says, making you all poor, addicted and, in principle, deprived of everything that you do not own! This format is exactly this, through such a format it happens, and this so-called conspiracy theory has long since become the conspiracy practice of legislators. It is the most realistic conspiracy practice of making people poor, without property, wholly dependent, those who have to pray for benefits, regardless of the country or municipality, and to whom all this goes. It's just the beginning, dear people! If you don't turn out, it's even worse. Start with the private sector, then with all the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U275	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U276	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U277	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 54, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Members Jansons, Latkovskis, Zakaistovs, Ples, Jušas, Leiiņš, Stein, Možville, Asheraden and Baumane ask the Saeima, at its remote extraordinary meeting on 23 November this year, to set a period of debate of three minutes, speaking for the first time, and one minute, speaking for the second time, until examination of the agenda items. Please enable the procedure section! Can we vote? Please call me! Let us vote on the timing of the debate at the remote extraordinary sitting of 23 November this year - three minutes, speaking for the first time, one minute, speaking for the second time, until the agenda items are examined! Please, let's vote! No, 58, no, 25, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the timing of the debate: speaking for the first time - three minutes, speaking for the second time - one minute. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U278	11. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Article 9 of the draft law provides for the exclusion of everything that could be said... This Article. And it was a condition that the self-employed person has the right to specify the mandatory contribution within 10 working days of the request of the State Revenue Service and in accordance with the verification established... and a quarterly report. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U279	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U280	12. - the proposal made by Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Article 10 of the draft law is to be excluded. This article is intended to provide for the establishment of the subject-matter of the new minimum contributions and the arrangements for making the contributions. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U281	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U282	Yes, colleagues! These articles, which will follow, and the proposals which will follow... on the part of the government... and Budgetary and Financial (Tax) Commissions... These are those that we can call the heart of this draft law, if it could be said that such a draft law has a heart, because they provide for the introduction of minimum social contributions. You look at the table of proposals... You will also see that the previous attempt to introduce minimum social contributions was in 2016 with the beginning of 2017 and is being lifted as a result of public pressure. And I'll remind you that it was a time when the economy actually grew at the rate of four, and then five percent. While now, on the contrary, the economy is falling at the same pace. Business organisations also point out that in fact such an additional payment would apply to 269 thousand inhabitants of Latvia, 180,000 of them working under the general regime. It is at this situation, at today's minimum wage. Next year, by raising this rate, the number of people who will be affected will be much wider. And, of course, business organisations also focus on employers, highlighting a number of factors that have not been sufficiently assessed when introducing these minimum social contributions. One is that in practice there is a high risk that part of the employees currently employed for part-time work will remain unemployed. Yes, the country has, for its part (and you will see in the paragraphs below), offered exemption groups - retired workers, then mothers, if they look after a child under three years of age, and a few more groups. But there is a very wide range of people who, unfortunately, remain beyond the scope of these exceptions, such as simple families of many children... Well, usually a mom who, trying to reconcile work with private family life, in parallel to looking after children in part... at least half-yearly, trying to work so as not to lose all their professional qualifications and fall out of the labour market. There are many companies in the regions where people are provided, at least in part allowing them to earn money. Because of their dependence, they don't even... and because of their standard of living, they are unable to work full-time. But it is like such a very important social support measure, because instead of going to the municipality to claim benefits, they work. You will also see letters from the LASP, from other business organisations, where you can see concrete examples. Such amendments to introduce minimum social contributions will leave a number of people unemployed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U283	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U284	I would also like to draw Members' attention to those letters which are annexed to the table on the examination of this draft law, and, colleagues, well, to this national education, which is currently being offered in terms of social guarantees... From the point of view of the professional organizations that represent these employees, who are here... Taxpayers... strongly oppose such imposed positions. I'd like to take a little bit of memory, too. I remember that this kind of approach was already proposed and that... The examination took place at the Social and Labour Commission. Under the leadership of Mrs Aia Barch, this has happened. And I too... It was time to be present and to see these many representatives of non-governmental organisations - all kinds of people who had come and discussed this issue. And it was during economic growth. After a couple of hours of debate with these organisations, it became clear to all of them. When you meet these people, meet them... They each represent different societies, non-governmental organizations... The full room of the Social and Labour Commission was then. And there wasn't a story... I remember trying to talk about the compromise... There was no story about the compromise texts. One gate showed that such changes would simply leave people without work. This burden is so fragile that in this case I am absolutely convinced that people will be unemployed. And when we work in this vebinary regime, I think none of the politicians voting on this issue would be... I would very much like to see them vote after they met them, talking to them... A little bit... To be proud of the fact that 100 people or how many people are connected to a commission meeting there - that doesn't mean that you're just one of those 100 people you can see where you can still hear! That does not mean anything. And in this case, colleagues, I call on you to support these proposals, however, and to come back to... maintain the regime currently in place.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U285	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U286	Colleagues, I could not apply for a procedure. I do not know why I was not allowed, but in the context of this proposal I also... and, in the context of all the other proposals, I would call... I would sign such an application - reduce the debate time immediately to one minute. There's nothing to learn. They're gonna confirm everything as well. The coalition is not debating, the time is being wasted. After all, MEPs probably also have better things to do than listening to the opposition. And there's nothing there to support those people. There is nothing to offer them social insurance. Let's only vote against people better, and peace! Well, that's what it looks like right now. So, colleagues, if there is such an opportunity, I will be the first to sign the application: we will reduce the debate time right away for one minute, we will not start another lunch, well, so it will be a polite thing. Because you're going to get to it. And I'm going to sign and I'm going to hit 'for' all of this. Because, well, the scenario is exactly the same as last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U287	Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U288	Colleagues! These amendments are not timely - several employers' organisations point to this. You yourself see that this is the moment - and the next months too - the next year will be the moment - when demand for labour fell sharply. Instead of recruiting new workers, companies are forced to reduce or at least reduce their workload. And that's how... Well, it's a good thing that there's the idea that if a person works part-time in a number of workplaces, then he could sum up these loads. But it is clear from all this that employers' payments are still unpredictable and made dependent on the conditions most of them (not hearable). ... employer controls. And in this period of uncertainty, to avoid unpleasant surprises that after a quarter (not heard.) ... conversion and they will receive a larger bill, most likely people (not hearable.) ... will be able to survive without them, either, thus again increasing the unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U289	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U290	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U291	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U292	A number of future proposals will apply to the groups of exceptions, to those people for whom minimum contributions may not be made. 13. - a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance. Planned to express this draft law... in the fourth subparagraph, point 4, in the form of a person dependent on a child under three years of age. Unlike before... at first reading, where this child was supposed to be in the tax book. This proposal has been partly supported and incorporated in 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U293	(Sound rupture) ... the vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! For - 21, for - 45, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U294	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance. It is envisaged to complement discount groups with persons with three or more children under 18 or under 24, of whom at least one is under seven years of age while the child is studying... Also with persons with five children under the age of 18, provided they... one of them continues training in the professional or higher... special education. Addition of point 7... persons who are dependent on a minor child recognised as a disabled person in accordance with the laws and regulations. This proposal was also partly supported and incorporated in the Commission17. - the Commission's proposal. I call on you to vote against or to abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U295	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - a proposal from the TB/LNNK Group! Please, let's vote! For - 20, for - 47, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U296	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola and Many. Additional conditions shall be laid down for self-employed persons so that they are not subject to compulsory contributions, as would be the case if they cooperate with the State Employment Agency and engage in personal development and retraining activities. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U297	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U298	I would not ask for this proposal to be put to the vote, because it is no longer relevant, but I think it shows very well how poor and chaotic the preparatory process for this draft law has been. We prepared this proposal, either shortly before the deadline for the submission of proposals, because in the public space there was an excellent government idea that it would be possible not to pay minimum social contributions if the taxpayer turned to the national social service... i.e., in the social service... and prove how poor he is and how inexperienced he is to earn at least the minimum wage... And social workers would be made into tax administrations and, I would say, also perhaps psychologists to a large extent in this situation. Well, it is really good that the government came out and, at least at the last minute, removed this idea without increasing the administrative burden on social workers as well and removing this pointless way of administration, but I would say that the proposal that is being proposed on the ground is not as successful as it is. For indeed - not simply, at the moment it is allowed not to pay minimum social contributions at least from the minimum wage, if a person sees that there will not be an opportunity to provide a minimum wage as a monthly income, but self-employed persons, for example, must declare income forecasted at the State Revenue Service every quarter and try to prove that they will not achieve the minimum wage... every three months. The State Revenue Service will then collect these taxes from the actual amount, i.e. all will have a job. Everyone will have a job. Will there be any real benefits from such complex administration, I do not, in fact, see it, except that, for self-employed persons, for example, in this way, the government makes life difficult - either, so that it is so difficult and unpleasant to work in this regime that, at the time when the government once again offers the current tax increase, they will finally decide to abandon these tax regimes. I do not call for this proposal to be put to the vote. As I said, this is really no longer relevant, but a very good indicator, in my opinion, of the process of drawing up this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U299	Thank you. Consequently, Members do not object to the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U300	16. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. New Article 20.4 on the establishment of the subject of minimum contributions... the payment of compulsory contributions. Here, too, is the most significant difference where it is established that a self-employed person will not... she will not be subject to these mandatory contributions if she cooperates with the social service and the social service as it is accepted that she is not burdened with these mandatory contributions. It was planned that the Cabinet of Ministers would determine the order in which this would happen. But this proposal was also partly supported and included in the Commission17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U301	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U302	Yes, colleagues, once again, I would like to remind you that overall, this proposal, which was proposed by the Minister for Welfare, actually still trying to formulate the same day as the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission looked at this draft law at second reading, when it was not yet possible to fully understand how its administration would take place at all... The budget and financial (tax) commission was also forced to produce its own versions with a clear task – to buy time for the government, because the package with all this offer is tasked with offering the government a vision of how social contribution rates and payment arrangements will change again from the beginning of 2022. The endless process of tax change is ahead of us. I would remind you that stability in tax policy is one of the key factors for entrepreneurs to work and also to recognise the business environment for us. What you are doing at the moment, fellow Members, is complete chaos. It is not even the case that, in order to implement such a serious tax change, tax development guidelines should be drawn up with a careful analysis, with the planned impact on the economy, with explanations for administrative measures. Instead, you simply shout like a crazy car driver, blinding your eyes to yourself, ignoring signs and threatening those who hit the road. This is not a good practice in shaping tax policy, and I can really say this from my experience, because we have been preparing the previous tax reform for almost two years. In many working groups, involving as many social partners and members of society as possible, we devoted financial resources, human resources to explain what changes are planned, what the administration is planned. And with all this, with the huge expert work that was invested, tax reform had mistakes and mistakes, and we see that people had difficulty understanding administration. Instead of fulfilling your promise that you will simplify tax administration... with the progressive personal income tax rate, the projected exclusional minimum (not to be heard) ... Part of the tax administration is complicated, you are climbing again on the same rake, even more rake, doing the same, reintroducing forecasting and probably providing a large number of taxpayers at the end of the year with an unpleasant surprise in the form of debt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U303	The debate has not yet been closed. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U304	Yes, honourable colleagues, joining my colleague, Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola... Although, of course, in the last parliamentary term, the opposition was rather critical of the tax reform in the government of Kučinski, but I have to say that it would be so hasty and so very wrong to communicate tax reform, which, in principle, was actually planned by our government politicians very quickly in September without any application... Well, really... By comparison, quite... It seems quite bad because, well, no one is secret that this movement is probably provoked here by the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Then, I quickly needed to find something and find the weakest places. So now we're where we are. A large part of these entrepreneurs will actually leave below the blow. But what I wanted to add to what I said is, yes, its forecasting and so... Let's say, all the contributions that are currently being paid... If we understood correctly, now too, those people who have been denied work, who are patent payers, they had to pay a patent fee for that month, but no support - no support! - They haven't received from the country. Then, my fellow Members, it may be that instead of trying to put more responsibilities on these people in a hurry now, you'll finally... finally solve the issue of end-of-life benefits because this issue has still not been resolved in the course of the days. We do not see any solution. We can see that the Minister of Health has already in fact acknowledged his total powerlessness, but there is no solution for us to save the economy at the moment. We're just... Together with you, we see how you were still able to continue to destroy out all possible businesses that still exist. I call on you to support... No, I am calling for this proposal not to be put to the vote at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U305	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U306	Good evening! Well, this proposal, given that it has been technically partly supported... of course, either the vote should be taken by the abstentions or, as a result, by the 'no' vote. But it is presented by the Minister for Welfare. I also found out that she was present at the Saeima sitting and obviously listening to the debate. And I think, given how much in that development process... How assets were explained in various ways... Well, those benefits of all this tax reform... It would only be adequate if she had also told her very ideal side about this, let us also say about this proposal, because not all Members have taken part in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission meeting and not everyone has heard all of these arguments. You know, the commissions are usually, well, that proposer reports on this. And now, the budget as one of the main draft laws, as you say, in general politics and also in Parliament... That would already be the proposal, where you could also report again... on a proposal from the Commission. I... This is just such a friendly recommendation, of course. Overall, this proposal has been partly supported, and it is therefore technically necessary to vote against it, or those who practice so-called 'abstention' can also refrain. I suggest that we simply reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U307	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U308	Colleagues! I think Mr. Feldman just showed... and I can't talk about what political responsibility is. Yes, we see - the Prime Minister's proposal... Maybe the Minister himself is connected... She is also a Member of the Saeima, and it would be logical that she is taking part in this process. But, colleagues, what the New Conservative Party is doing right now... And I think it's at such a party level, I'd say... In Latvian you could say, turn on such a reverse... and has heard the opposition. He's clearly heard the opposition... that the opposition said for two days that the Saeima Members would be guilty of all these amendments, which are being discussed here today, yesterday, last night... No one other than the Members of the Saeima and those political parties who voted in favour of it will take responsibility. Not ministers. And not the Prime Minister. They will be the first to blame the Saeima for these voters... issues. In my opinion, as has already been the case, when you voted in favour of this draft law at first reading... all these laws, and when you came with reservations, did you not receive the answer that you already voted in favour of all this? And that's what it will be. And all that you now... Executing... The fact that ministers should freeze wages - this is something you rejected two days ago. The opposition offered it. You refused. And now to show up, to invite someone to come here to explain... Colleagues, that's... Of course, we need to come and explain. But questions and responsibilities are no longer in government... In the government, you should have asked your ministers for this clarification. The government is the one that prepares it, and your self-sponsored government ministers have submitted this budget. And when we vote on the budget or on a matter, it is not that it is a question for the Minister for Welfare. All of us are voting together. The Minister of Welfare can't vote alone, just as one Member here in the Saeima can't vote alone... whether a political party, such as the CPV LV, cannot vote on these proposals alone... Like any draft law, such as amendments to the micro-enterprises tax, one cannot vote. This must be done together. And you have shown perfectly now how you do it together, and you will also have to take responsibility together. And when you vote with closed eyes on the proposals, remember that voters will ask you exactly why you voted like this and you will have to explain your own votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U309	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U310	I think it is only normal for both the opposition and the position of the Saeima to take part in the debate, and I would probably not be blaming that I would have been too little, as you say, in the context of the budget. I think it's just... When we get to the budget law and can also vote for the corresponding appropriations... proposals, such as those on ministerial salaries and so on, will also be able to show how he votes, what his views are. With regard to populist opposition proposals, which we experienced on Monday, for example... We Conservatives have never hidden that we are sceptical about the populism of the opposition, and let us continue to do so always... I'm not afraid to use that word... denounce and do not vote for it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U311	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U312	Colleagues! Returning to the proposal, to what we heard from Mr Feldman, it should be said that the Minister for Welfare is, in principle, not the only person responsible for the minimum income threshold guaranteed. Actually, before she was just... was one very nice welfare minister Jānis Reirs, who did not do anything in this regard either, until the Constitutional Court decided otherwise. So... And in fact, when you formed a government, one of the things that turned into the air was - how will you combat poverty. You didn't think about it. And now to put everything in one ministry - I think it is absolutely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U313	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U314	I cannot agree with Mrs Stepanenko that the BIP is not fighting poverty. They are definitely doing this. An example was the very clear vote on the solidarity tax. They made sure that the recipients of high wages could get more wages and never get into poverty. They also took great care that airBaltic, the largest Latvian airline, should not get into poverty. More than EUR 200 million have been paid to save this company. So that the issues of poverty, no matter who, but this political power, are absolutely of great concern. We also see that they have begun in the history of Latvia... I do not remember the time, but it is the JCBP that has started to give “Latvian Railways”, even though the railways do not go into poverty. These are the very great achievements that they already have.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U315	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U316	Colleagues! I would like to commend Mr Feldman, the UKP, for his, well, excellent ability to lie. Well, thank you for that. I don't know anyone who's so perfect about it. Thank you. I'm not gonna take more time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U317	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U318	This proposal was partly supported and incorporated by the Commission17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U319	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs! Please, let's vote! For - 4, for - 53, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U320	17. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which brings together, in part, the three proposals already mentioned above and sets out... state the procedures for determining the subject of the minimum contributions and for making the compulsory contributions in a new version. The most important difference is that these groups, which are not covered by the mandatory minimum contribution, include also large families and persons whose own or spouse's salary in the tax book is registered as a minor child who is recognised as a disabled person according to the laws and regulations, and there is no longer any reference that self-employed persons, so that they do not have to pay this minimum contribution, should cooperate with the social service, but there is a certain procedure, which provides that cooperation will be with the State Revenue Service. To say so, this is a compromise solution which the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has supported. And I call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U321	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U322	I asked for three plus one minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U323	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U324	If Article 10 of the draft law, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, called the heart of the draft law, I would call the 17th proposal and the final proposal, 38, on the salt of the draft law. I will not tolerate it because time has been taken away, but I conclude that the introduction of a minimum compulsory contribution is an economically harmful and socially damaging government measure, because it obviously increases the regression of the tax system, which in itself is an absolute evil, that is, the smaller the person's income, the more part of it is to be paid into taxes, the greater the individual contribution of the person to the state budget. It is not economically justified, nor fair, that the economically and socially disadvantaged have a relatively greater burden and responsibility for the implementation of the government budget. This is increasing the gap between the rich and the poor, bringing the poor closer to a growing number of middle-class members, deprives them of their potential for personal development, and exacerbating the suffering of families, as is the intention of any government. It is all too little for economic and political leaders and organisations to maintain the regressivity of personal income tax already in force and resist the introduction of progressive income tax; now another instrument is being created, which will be used by the last cents of their fellow citizens' money purses who are trying and able to ensure their own economic independence! All of them are forced by the government to become cheap paid workers on the labour market and to enter the competition for jobs. According to the government, self-employed workers are just the beginning of the path to medium-sized business. You don't want to climb up - become a paid employee yourself! Such capitalism is being brought to us by the government, but here in the Saeima, let us remember that there are many self-employed and small entrepreneurs among our constituents who do not want to become magnets at all. They want to work independently in their business, live with their small, yet stable income, provide their family and country with an average, yet prosperous standard of living, an opportunity to work on working days, while resting on holiday. Yes, they take care of themselves, but it is they who create the soil that is necessary for a successful business, the national economy. When the soil is destroyed, the government destroys trees. I call for the 17th and last 38th proposals not to be supported. Thank you for your attention, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U325	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U326	The Commission supported this proposal. I invite you to support it!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U327	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 57, 26, abstains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U328	18. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. Provision is made for the exclusion of Article 11 of the draft law, which concerns patent payers - that they will no longer be insurance... will not be self-employed... those who pay the patent fees. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U329	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U330	Colleagues! I think it is worth thinking about why, in practice, the only business support organisation that has spoken in favour of these tax changes was the Foreign Investors' Board. Of the proposals that were mentioned in their letter... There were small proposals for eligible expenditure or something like that, but in fact - praised the government for going in the right direction. Very clear reasoning. I think that what you will achieve after all these tax changes is that you will provide cheap, good labour for foreign companies. Well, think of yourself: if in a short time... Whereas, as the Ministry of Finance predicts... 32 000 micro-business taxpayers, 32 000 self-employed, probably also those people who are working part-time today and who will be made redundant by those local producers in the regions will be looking for employment, so that they will be able to receive a minimum wage in foreign capital companies for the most likely people with a number of higher education. And that is hardly what we wish our people at the moment. Once again, I call on you to maintain at least this tax regime, a patent fee as a rescue island for those who... if they were not able to afford self-employment to work and pay social contributions (in the beginning - from the minimum wage, then from the entire income), then this would be at least a regime that would allow a person to earn wages with his own hands rather than make him work for a small international corporation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U331	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U332	Yes, my fellow Members, too, call on the patent payer... this regime here in some way, however, to maintain it. I very much like the progress that has been made in the coalition with regard to the fact that at least there are some proposals that have been shifted... The opposition's proposals are then, with a delay, ready to support, so we will continue to talk about the damage that this budget and these proposals are doing. And in this particular regard, it should be said that this is yet another call to maintain the regime of patent payers, another reminder that thousands of Latvians work there, chooses it. And these professions where they work... I think it was such an interesting occasion in what way... make sure, however, that these professions make some kind of tax payments. I can only imagine the administrative burden that will arise, the emotions that will arise at a time when this tax burden will no longer be paid. The transition to another regime will be burdensome. The population will choose to move into the shadow economy, operate in the grey environment, even... to be honest, it would even be good... better than if they left Latvia at all and empty already empty fields and regions... as is already the case. And if, moreover, the State Revenue Service came to the top and began to terrorize them because maybe someone is starting to provide hairdresser services in their apartment, someone may not pay any tax on the services of the photographer... Maybe someone gives the cunt some money in his paw, and he gives that money... On his way home, he has already forgotten that he should declare it... And that's what I could go on. So, colleagues, we will ultimately see an increase in the number of workers in the informal economy. And what Mrs Reizniece-Ozola said is worth even more thought. Are we really ready to be like workers for foreign investor companies and send tens of thousands of people in this direction?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U333	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U334	Good evening, Madam President and colleagues. I am going to call on the coalition, the position, to continue to reject all reasonable proposals. Because it seems you can finally get an answer... Also on this proposal... but the answer is probably clear. I think it is precisely because, by denying any kind of entrepreneurship, so also patents, so also in the field of agriculture and culture, you are giving a clear answer, a clear answer for everyone, why you do not give money to education, higher education and science. The answer now is clear: there will be no one - who will not have economic development and who will do something in that higher education or science. I call on you to think further, to continue rejecting the reasonable proposals, also because, in fact, the whole world is now, especially Europe... In the context of the European Union, we are talking about the threat that not only will youth unemployment be stopped, but... Youth unemployment is rising today. Keep rejecting reasonable proposals, because then Latvian youth... There's no percentage of unemployment because they're all gone or... in fact, it will not see an opportunity to stay in Latvia, but will drive away. As public money training will be available there, entrepreneurship will also be possible. Keep going. Because, in fact, all your decisions now promote it, and the answer to people is clear. There is no need for funding for higher education. You don't need funding for science. Don't need to support teachers. They must carry masks or follow the distance of the meter. And we don't need to support young people, their business, because then youth unemployment in Latvia... How do we see, we don't have such high interest rates, do we?... will not grow. Keep such a policy, and the people will really see it, and we will not stop showing the consequences of your decisions without supporting reasonable proposals or... trying, at least, to fix it in the context of the communion... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U335	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U336	Colleagues! I'm just on the same proposal... Speaking of responsibility, I have spoken a lot, but I would also call for those factions that we are discussing less during these days. At the moment, it happens that the New Conservative Party is the only one that is going on here... on which we are debating responsibility. The rest of the groups will also have their turn - on other issues; then we will also be able to discuss other ministers and talk about their areas of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U337	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U338	I would like to respond to Mrs Papule, who, perhaps unintentionally, disseminated misleading information. As is well known, this draft budget provides for EUR 33.3 million directly for teachers' salaries, that is to say, for those teachers working in pre-school education - children 5-6 years old - as well as for those in general education and also in vocational education... And EUR 7.2 million is intended - already next year - to raise the minimum rates of remuneration for academic staff. And it should be noted that this increase will continue also in 2022 with regard to teachers' salaries. So what the law has promised will be fulfilled - EUR 830 per so-called one rate, and in 2022 it is planned to reach the threshold of EUR 900. This is, of course, still too little, but these are significant increases. So I would call for the public not to be deceived with regard to the allocation of money or the granting of funds to the education sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U339	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U340	Colleagues! The money is good, but I will remind you that you are doing it at the moment at the expense of the debt. A larger deficit at the moment - this means an even higher tax tomorrow unless there is a clear plan to stimulate the economy... not - how to finish it, as is currently being done. I would also like to raise one more aspect in the context of patent fees. I think it's interesting... That's not too much we're talking about in this budget... The Women’s Support Centre “Marta” wrote that violence in families was growing very rapidly during the community. And it is women who, in the context of tax changes, will be the greatest victims, because they, as a rule, work more often than men in less paid and unstable jobs. And such an unthinkable change in taxes by introducing minimum social contributions for part-time work, as well as the abolition of patent fees where women... is part of the users, can put this group of society in an unpunished situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U341	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U342	Madam President, thank you. KNP for the intellectual: you forgot to say that... not deception, but you are deceived at this time. You do only what the timetable for raising teachers' salaries requires, and be grateful that Mr Kariņš allows you to do it. You only meet the low standards - for 50 euros... the promotion of remuneration. You didn't find money for university assistants, you didn't find money for science. And the money that you find, you're constantly finding from children's holidays. It would be fair to propose that the catering function be removed from the Ministry of Education and Science and given back to the Ministry of Welfare, because perhaps then the holiday money would be used for the purpose rather than for all other forms of support. Among them - teachers' salaries at the university... But you didn't find money to meet the minimum that you have to meet in connection with the requirements of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U343	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U344	The question is: who is misleading the public. The question for the new Conservative Party. You're just making a knife for yourself at the moment on one basis... Because Mr. Feldman is trying to get us here. All you should honestly say to the public is that what is happening right now is really the destruction of small business. It is the ejection of a very large part of Latvian society. Next year, as soon as we open the borders abroad... Because everyone knows. Everybody! You cannot imagine the extent to which the people have understood what is happening today! They are already ready to leave and are already sitting on suitcases, only virtual ones, and the restrictions that are currently in place - this is the only factor that stops these people. We're misleading the public?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Think of you: the teacher's salary of EUR 830 - that's a lot? Think about how many ministers get for their absolute unprofessionality, who don't know... who run ministries so unprofessional that we get a brother for a brother here in the Saeima. The Saeima political group SASKA has just submitted a draft law requiring the freezing of wages of all the ministers of this Cabinet of Ministers, wages of all the parliamentary secretaries of this Cabinet of Ministers. Don't deserve it! Work as a teacher maybe... for this salary here that you... added, and stop misleading the public about what is happening, because society has already understood everything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U345	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U346	Colleagues! I fully join my colleague, Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, in the question of the fact that this regime will be destroyed by women and by women's independence, by multi-child families, where mothers try to combine this responsibility where... where they commit to bringing up their children, let us say, with some other income, to try, say, also to bring up very small children born after each other. For example, the family... We know that the family lives in Riga, and there are eight children in the family. That's where Mom can't go for normal working hours, so she's also trying to do something... Find something... Find yourself a chance to earn some money too. All those who... I think it was yesterday... or... Last night was the day on which everyone declared that they supported this fight against violence against women. All those who played last night may have... the various pictures, how they are now fighting - how will you vote today, how have you voted? You are, of course, voting without even listening to your... Well, to some extent, the members of the fight and the like - the resource centre Marta - who, in my opinion, are now quite rightly pointing out that one of the factors that will really help women who are in an inconvenient situation, which is often also economically dependent on their men, who may not be so well treated... This is the way in which women can solve this problem, so become more independent, earning money for themselves, because economically already... Well, this economic dependency is, unfortunately, very common in our country. Therefore, in order for women to continue to earn income, this regime also had to be maintained. That's why. And also because many children's mothers... They need it. And, Mr. Feldman, if we're talking about deception, then... What you are doing at the moment when you distribute messages everywhere (A sound breakdown.) ... You want to freeze ministerial salaries - that is misleading. You voted 'no' and I do not see any of your proposals to freeze ministers' salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U347	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U348	The Commission did not support the proposal 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U349	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - An offer by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 57, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U350	19. - the proposal of welfare minister Petraviča, which supplements Article 11 of the draft law by excluding paragraph 3.1, which refers to the fact that the period of contributions for self-employed persons from agricultural production is different. It won't be different anymore. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U351	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U352	Colleagues, you noticed that this government has made welfare ministers a universal soldier who is to make proposals, to defend them, to give thanks to everyone, including those dissatisfied, on behalf of the whole government? And also the minimum social contributions are defended not by Kariņš, not by Reirs, not even by the party member Zakaitistov, but by the Minister for Welfare. And this proposal is also where... tried to hold the front in some way (it seems to me - unsuccessful) by presenting a proposal that has a very significant impact on the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, farmers - citizens' income taxpayers... and provides that farmers will also pay social contributions in the future on a general basis - not once a year, as is currently the case under law, but on a quarterly basis, as is the case with all the other self-employed workers. What is important, colleagues - there has been no exception in the law so far for farmers. This is because the agricultural sector is very seasonal in nature and revenue and expenditure is generated there in a seasonal manner, i.e. there are a number of sectors of agriculture, such as fruit farming, livestock production, where the farmer sells its production mainly at the end of the year and then also generates revenue, and there is no agricultural expenditure on the holding during the rest of the year. By imposing a quarterly obligation to make these contributions, you will considerably increase the amount of the compulsory contributions and the financial burden, the difficulties in accessing working capital also for farmers. Well, if you have all the other areas already, you have damaged, and now the payments will increase for farmers, then at least take into account the specificities of the sectors and keep the order of payments... even if the amount does not change and is adapted to other self-employed workers... Don't go to the rakes! These are issues that have long been considered, and not for nothing such a norm, such an exception, has been incorporated into the law. I call on you to vote against this proposal by the Minister for Welfare, where... obviously colleagues have perhaps not explained or have not been able to defend this important issue of the Ministry of Agriculture and the agricultural sector in the government.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U353	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U354	I'm also joining. In the field of agriculture, very... I'd really like to hear... This is exactly a government question... In the field of agriculture, in the area of prosperity... Apparently, the Ministry of Welfare has won... But, well, purely administrative... Well, do you really, colleagues... Is that so? It's quite clear to everyone that, let's say, strawberries read... So, in the sense of this proposal, strawberries are reading all year round. In my opinion, this is not all year round in Latvia. It's just like a grain... grown all year round? Well, that doesn't happen all year. And many other areas of agriculture, where there are employees... That is why, historically, that norm has already been the case. But this completely incomprehensible regulation is now being proposed! No major scandals have been heard around this area, and it has not been heard that the current regulation would be abused. It also includes opinions, letters from professional organisations working on these issues, such as the LASP... This desire is completely incomprehensible! The impression is that we want not only to increase this amount of payment, but also to make it so administratively uninteresting that, quite simply, no one can use this regime any more. This will, of course, have an impact both on the development of our farmers... It is the small farmers who will suffer the most from it. Who needs this? Why is there such a misunderstanding? I think now... Mrs Indicice, perhaps you can explain what happened then outside of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. These are the questions on which we, as Members, would like to hear the answers. And we would also call one of the National Associations - maybe you... The field of farming is under your supervision right now. Why has such an inappropriate administration mechanism been chosen? So far, it's been working... It's never been a question... What are these crazy cases? Why have we reached that point? Or maybe YOUR Unity or CPV LV... Someone come and explain! This is completely absurd, and I think with my colleagues, Dan... and others will complement already... explain the reason for their absurdity.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U355	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U356	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. Yes, we have noticed that the Minister for Welfare is making various proposals and protecting his own area, on the one hand, because it is clear that the number of unemployed will increase in the context of all these approved decisions, especially now, in a community situation where travel or departure is less simple and work opportunities are rather difficult. And we also follow another trend: the JCPOA is attacking respectively the Ministry of Welfare... the political power represented by the Minister. That is understandable, though. In fact, as the number of unemployed increases, money will have to be given to the Ministry of Welfare rather than to the Ministry of Education and Science for holidays. It is quite clear, though, that this is a certain mutual interest. And the intellectuals usually do so. So I draw your attention once again at this point to the fact that with these votes... without supporting the reasonable proposals of the opposition, to a certain extent, you are once again undermining the opportunity for people to learn, study and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U357	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U358	Colleagues! I'll pay particular attention... and I also call perhaps John Cielen to comment in some way on this proposal from the Ministry of Welfare, because he is the one who has just set up a group of MEPs in the Saeima to defend small farmers with such a big application. Well, I'd like to see a really practical defense, too... the defence of small farmers, because people's income tax payers are small farmers. I did not see that you would be against the restriction to combine the farmer's activities with the micro-enterprises tax regime. I do not see at this point that you would also defend small farmers on the issue of changing the minimum social contribution arrangements. The question is, what are you going to do in that group? Will it be just such a public-shirts-ploughing and pseudo-protection, or do you want European money to be shared? This is not clear if you do not enter into such practical proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U359	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U360	Good evening! You know, if such a proposal were to be made by the Minister responsible for agriculture, he would certainly have to resign. Seeing that such a proposal has been made by the Minister for Welfare, I am no wonder. The only question is whether she is going to emigrate from the country at all after the end of her parliamentary term. Because it is hard for me to imagine that she will be able to look into the eyes of farmers in the Saldus region from where... Where she lives. Yeah... Don't even know what you're making... and maybe, if you even understand, once to peer - well, it would still be a normal woman's character. This time, I understand, you couldn't get in or into. It is a proposal that will obviously only benefit those big capital holders who stand and wait when they will be able to buy out the last plots of land in Kurzeme, so that then all the small ones work only there, serve... to this ground, to these forests. But looking at the context as a whole, I'm no longer... I don't wonder what Arvil Asheraden, a Member of the New Unity, said... He literally said a few days ago that Latvia, here, must prepare for the economic leap after the Covid-19 crisis. So, it turns out, all this policy, all these tax changes are about preparing certain groups for some jump. That these tax changes really are some platform, that is, in preparation, to have where to take the cheap workforce... lower prices for all that, basic resources - land, forests... and so on. So... I think that, in fact, the entire Cabinet of Ministers should be resigned after the adoption of this budget. I do not know if all Members of the position will be able to see their constituents. And that's just the beginning! Women are already rebelling... You do not appreciate the strength of these women, because not all women are such as the Minister for Welfare. They can get stuck, and that's gonna be serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U361	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U362	Colleagues! Neither did I hear any kind of clarification as to why agricultural workers will now have to present these reports in the same way as everyone else. I think that's wrong. Such a proposal... If we look at such a common system... from this point of view - yes, everyone has the same approach. But if we look at the substance, then... That's why there are also exceptions... That is why such an exception to the law was understood by understanding the specific nature of its particular issue, seasonality... and other approaches. So, colleagues, I am calling for this proposal, which is a proposal tabled by the Minister, not to be supported and to be aware of this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U363	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U364	Colleagues! After very little experience, how much we had brought these various changes to the budget to the parliament... In general, tax reform is already being prepared by the entire government. What we are seeing at the moment is that almost one ministry is forced to prepare for the whole tax reform, because the whole MUN issue was, in fact, in the hands of the Ministry of Welfare, let us say. It is clear that one ministry cannot either... Well, you can't orient and answer about the following areas as well... like... we have just spoken about agriculture. It shows, first of all, the work of bad management, it's really in Mr. Kariņš's field. It shows, secondly, that the other colleagues apparently... we are currently talking about the Minister of Agriculture... It calms down and rejoices that this hard work has not been done to him and that he will not answer for it. Colleagues! I really don't like the fact that at the moment one has been made guilty of all this, but that's the main thing, it's the manager and it's... And that finance minister, who's not at all right now, not at all... in no way... does not take part in the debate or... Nothing... I don't know. I don't know. The Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, too, does not in any way reflect the government's vision. That's what you are! Well, it's a team that's really full of light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U365	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U366	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U367	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. ... Wait, about 19. ... Is that so? The Commission supported this proposal. The rapporteur must be corrected. If we vote in favour 19. ... It is a proposal made by welfare minister Petravičas. The Commission is supported. Please call again! We will vote in favour of 19. - the proposal submitted by welfare minister Petravičs! Please, let's vote! For - 57, for - 15, for - 14. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U368	I'm sorry about the mistake, I think it's really late. 20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. This proposal provides for the exclusion of Articles 12 and 17 of the draft law and for 35 per cent of the public social security allowance... interest is replaced by this number... EUR 22.41. It's the threshold to which social... overpaid social contributions shall not be reimbursed but shall accumulate until this threshold is reached. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U369	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! - 30, 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U370	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This specifies the time period for transferring mandatory contributions to another Member State... from the solidarity tax. The words ‘for the period from 1 January 2019’ shall be replaced by the words ‘for the years 2019 and 2020’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U372	22. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis to exclude Article 14 of the draft law. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2147-U373	Please call me! Mrs Reizniece wants to have a debate. So Members want to debate. Okay. Let us debate this proposal after we have decided on a break. Please provide a section on the procedure. Dear colleagues, Members of Parliament Šteins, Baumane, Pimenov, Papule and Švecova are asking to announce a break at the Saeima's remote extraordinary session of 23 November 2020 by 9 a.m. on 27 November this year. Please, let's vote! It's not about 85, it's two, it's not. Decision adopted. So let's get back to work tomorrow, at 9.00 a.m. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. So it's a break until tomorrow at 9 a.m. ( Interruption)
