ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U1	Dear colleagues, Please, take your seats! Dear colleagues, Please, take your seats! Let us begin the next sitting - the second extraordinary sitting - of the Saeima on 20 March 2020. Let us look at the first section of the agenda on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” presented by Reiznieces-Ozola, Plantis, Jalinska, Stepanenko, Vucana, Bergmanis, Valaiņa, Krauze, Lochmeles–Lunova, Gobzems and Liepāja be referred to the Social and Labour Commission and that it be the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about” Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U2	Dear colleagues, At this time, we must learn to think about everyone. Our... Our concerns now, and also the proposal, are directly related to both women who are in child care... I'm sorry, women of pregnancy... pregnant women, as well as women who are breastfeeding, who are forced to remain in society... and it's about their direct obligation... the performance of duties, such as cashiers in shops or women working in services. Therefore, our incentive is that Article 99 of the Labour Act, which states that, as a result of the doctor's opinion, an employer may impose on a pregnant or breastfeeding woman special terms of employment, if these working conditions threaten the health of a woman, then these obligations may be changed, for example, if a woman is working as a cashier, diverting her to work that is not linked to contact with people... We have therefore also called for the conditions to be added to Article 99 that the spread of a dangerous infection will also be considered to be conditions that could endanger women's health. In our view, this has not been provided for in the regulation so far. We therefore urge that this proposal, too, this draft law should be examined and passed on to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? I do not see any objections, so the draft law has been passed on to the Social and Labour Commission. Agenda of the next sitting - Examination of draft laws Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Commercial Law’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U4	Hello! So this draft law, Amendments to the Commercial Law, was examined by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. This draft law is designed to allow members of the capital companies, including shareholders in other cases, to participate and vote at the meetings of the members or shareholders at a distance. The project also facilitates the electronic conduct of meetings of the Board and the Board by simplifying the requirements for the signature of minutes of meetings of the Board and the Board. We examined it in the Commission. The Commission shall request urgent recognition.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U5	Thank you. The Commission therefore proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. According to the parliamentary roll of order, we must first vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Amendments to the Commercial Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U6	The Commission is asking for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U7	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Commercial Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and for the time when the draft law will be examined at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U8	The deadline for tabling the proposals for second reading is 15 minutes with the next extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U9	Date, time for extraordinary sitting...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U10	Whenever the Bureau announces the next extraordinary sitting, the nearest.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U11	Thank you. So there's a proposal... There are no other proposals. Proposal... To submit proposals - 15 minutes. The time of consideration is the extraordinary sitting of the next Saeima, when the Bureau will announce it. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on dismissal of Riga City Council, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U12	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! Resurrection! In the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) we have examined amendments to the Riga City Council's draft law on dismissal... the law. And this draft law has also been declared urgent by the Commission. But I'll tell you about things quickly before. The amendments have been prepared in the light of the World Health Organization statement that Covid-19 has reached the scale of the pandemic and the exceptional situation in Latvia. The draft law provides for the transfer of extraordinary elections of Riga City Council to June 6, 2020. The Central Electoral Commission shall announce these elections on 14 April 2020. Article 1 of the draft law provides that Section 5 (3) of Riga City Council's dismissal law shall be amended by providing that lists of candidates shall be submitted from day 46 to day 40. The draft law also provides that the Central Electoral Commission announces the elections in Riga City Municipality on 14 April 2020, therefore it is necessary to regulate the issue of pre-election of expenditure during the period from 25 February 2020 to 13 April 2020. The draft law provides that political organisations (parties) need not submit a declaration of electoral revenue and expenditure to the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau for the pre-election of expenditure incurred between 25 February 2020 and 13 April 2020 and do not have to include them in the permissible pre-election expenses specified in the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Well, yes, and it's important that, as I said, the draft law in the Commission is declared urgent. Please also support the Saeima for this urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U13	Thank you. The Commission therefore proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. According to the parliamentary roll of order, we must first vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U14	Please... I also call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U15	Let's start a debate. Member Ivars Zarins spoke in the first debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U16	Hello, colleagues! Clearly, because of the crisis linked to the virus, there are changes that are related to the elections in Riga municipality, but what I would have liked to hear here from the rapporteur - so that he comes and justifies why such changes are proposed. Why is it suddenly being done now that those parties who had already launched this pre-election campaign, which had already worked purposefully for society, suddenly now come up with: “No, you know, all that, it doesn’t count! We will be able to start again from scratch.” I would like to hear this justification. I listened carefully to the Cabinet when you decided. There were two options. One option was to cancel all these election expenses, the other that they remain. There was no argument at all as to why this decision was taken. Come here and tell me! Otherwise, if you do not have a rational argument here, it means that what you are now dealing with is political manipulation. In particular, one party, who will know how we will now decide how we will be doing this election, will be able to manipulate it and, out of it, form our own election campaign, process voters and process society. Others, who do not understand when they will actually have elections (there will be no), will not be able to count on them - they will not have this opportunity. In this way, you are giving yourself a political advantage that is unacceptable in a normal democratic state. That's why I'd like to... If you are going to support this draft law today, in order of urgency, although there is no need for urgency here, because we are not going to make its Riga elections in the near future... Then why did you need this urgency, and what is the point? What is the motivation for this decision? Why is everything being made again - this... for pre-election expenses, these promotion expenses are cancelled? Come and tell us why this is the proposal from these two. The argument was not given in the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. Then give it at least here in the Saeima before we decide on it. Otherwise, it is simply one major political manipulation that you are currently doing to give yourself a political advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U17	Thank you. The next debate will be entitled Regina Lochmelei-Lunova. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U18	Hello, colleagues! I would like to justify our vote on this particular draft law on behalf of the Group. In particular, the political group SASKĀJA believes that the transfer of the Riga City Council elections to June 6 is justified. And this is justified by the state of emergency. The Group, however, strongly opposes the transitional clause on pre-election of expenditure incurred between 25 February 2020 and 13 April 2020 by political organisations, i.e. parties, not to submit a declaration of electoral revenue and expenditure to the Anti-Corruption Office and not to include them in the amount of expenditure. We believe that the inclusion of this provision in the transitional provisions is unfair and favours specific political parties. During the debate, Minister Puce expressed her opinion that this is necessary because voters are making their decision on a specific vote in the elections in the last month. This is contrary to the behaviour of this minister's party in the pre-election period, when specifically Development/Par! Pre-election advertising was, by its very nature, placed before the time of pre-election. Therefore, we invite the Saeima to join the Group's SASKAŅAS opinion and vote in favour of transferring the extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council for the time being until June 6, 2020, but to vote against the exclusion of expenses from pre-election... (which is included in the transitional provisions). ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U19	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does Mr. Stein want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U20	I call on the Saeima to vote in favour of this draft law “Amendments to the Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U21	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on dismissal of Riga City Council! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “Nothing to say!” Substitution: “There is no reason!” ) Please see the result. For -63, for -13, for -1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the time when the draft law will be examined at the second reading of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U22	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes. Review - the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U23	There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes. Review - Saeima, 20 March extraordinary sitting. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the Invalidity Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U24	Dear colleagues, Dear President, The Social and Labour Commission examined the draft law “Amendment to the Invalidity Law”. This draft law “Amendment to the Invalidity Act”... The aim is therefore to prevent persons with disabilities from losing their right to social security as a result of the Covid-19 restrictive measures. Amendment to the Invalidity Act includes changes to the wording of paragraph 9 of the Transitional Provisions, which states: “If a person expires the validity of an administrative act previously issued by the National Commission for the purpose of carrying out an expert examination of disability during the period when an emergency situation is declared in the State, or within three months after the revocation of the emergency situation or the expiry of the prescribed period, and has not submitted the necessary documents for carrying out an examination of the disability, the period of validity of that administrative act shall be extended to six months, but not later than the issue of a new administrative act in the individual case.” In the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, this draft law was approved as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U25	Thank you. The Commission therefore also proposes that this draft law be declared urgent. We must first vote on the urgency of the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on disability law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U26	Okay. The draft law at first reading was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on disability law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the time when the draft law will be examined at the second reading of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U28	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes. Consideration of the second reading - Saeima extraordinary sitting of 20 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U29	So there are no other proposals. Time limit for submitting proposals to the draft law - 15 minutes. Second reading - in extraordinary session on 20 March this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the law on maternity and sickness insurance, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U30	Thank you. Colleagues! Then “Amendment to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”... The nature of the draft law is as follows: if a person is ill with Covid-19 or is quarantined for this disease, the inability to work will be paid for by the state - and from the second day. The draft law was declared urgent by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U31	Thank you. The draft laws are therefore also proposed by the Commission as a matter of urgency. We must vote for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U32	The Commission also unanimously supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U33	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the time when the draft law will be examined at the second reading of the Saeima. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U34	The Commission is asking for a deadline of 15 minutes to be set for the examination of the proposals at the sitting of the Saeima on 20 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U35	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for tabling proposals for this draft law is also 15 minutes, and consideration at second reading is an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 March. Thank you. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U36	Dear colleagues, Dear President, The Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”, which sets out... and the purpose of which is to determine the procedure for dealing with an emergency situation where the person is due to end of the period of validity of the status of the poor or disadvantaged family (person), as well as the procedure for re-allocation of the status, which means that Article 37 of the Social Services and Social Assistance Act is reviewed and reviewed... conditions for granting in an emergency. ‘ ( 1) If the social service of the municipality has issued a certificate to the family(s) certifying that it has been recognised as poor, less provided or less provided in accordance with the conditions for receiving aid laid down by the European Support Fund for the Most Deprived Persons (...) and that this certificate expires at the time when the emergency situation is declared in the territory of the country, the period of validity of this certificate shall be deemed to be extended for the period of the emergency and one calendar month after the end of the emergency situation. ( 2) During the period referred to in the first subparagraph, the family (person) shall retain all benefits and facilities granted by the local government and the State to which the family (person) is entitled as poor or low income. ( 3) A person who again needs to establish compliance with the status of a poor or disadvantaged family (person) or who is in a crisis situation shall approach the social service of the municipality remotely (by e-mail or by placing an application in a special box). The social service of the municipality shall verify the compliance of the applicant with the relevant status in the national and municipal information systems without requesting additional documents and shall decide on the determination of the appropriate status or refusal to determine whether support in a crisis situation.” The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has examined the urgency at first reading and unanimously identified the urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U37	Thank you. The Commission therefore also proposes that this draft law be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U38	Thank you. The draft law was also unanimously approved by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs at first reading. I also ask you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the time when the draft law will be examined at the second reading of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U40	Time to submit proposals - 15 minutes. Second reading of the draft law is an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U41	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for tabling proposals for a draft law is 15 minutes, second reading - Saeima in extraordinary session of 20 March this year. Thank you. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U42	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined very carefully the draft law on prevention and management of threats to the country and its consequences due to the spread of Covid-19 at first reading. The committee, of course, moved it towards the Saeima sitting and unanimously asked for urgency. But before I finish the report, I would like to say to you the following thing that, in a thorough examination, the Minister of Finance told us very carefully what privileged situation Latvia is in, because Latvia has one billion euros in the Latvian Treasury, which is actually leveraged funds. This moment is busy... closed financial markets, as very little happens in financial markets. Essentially, the people involved in finance are currently looking at the cushion of their liquidity that the state can at this moment to better finance the needs that will arise in this first, second and third wave. That is, starting with support for business as well as employees. First of all, employees. This is in relation to critical infrastructure, such as the airport, which was mentioned by our opposition colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, and which until now could not be included in any list and support. Thanks to Dana Reizniece-Ozola for drawing attention, and it was really nice. Just like Vjačeslav Dombrovskis... Proposals for the temporary suspension of the 2nd pension pillar and so on... So there were a lot of proposals in the commission's work. The coronavirus has deleted the lines between the position and the opposition, and we are all very friendly as we always do... What about the coronavirus, right? Colleagues, I also ask you to support urgency, and I ask you to support the draft law at first reading. But I guess it's all in a row, right?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U43	Yeah, thank you. So Members have applied for a debate. As the Commission proposes that the draft law be declared urgent, we must first vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law has been declared urgent. Let's start a debate. The first debate was opened by the Minister of Finance, Jānis Reirs. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U44	Hello, colleagues! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I Honourable Members of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Latvian economy has so far developed in a balanced way. However, the crisis currently caused by the Covid-19 has also shaken our economic environment, and this economic shock through the various instruments is the most... without major damage must be suffered. Therefore, currently, in a crisis situation, Latvia can use the funds available in the Treasury account to provide the necessary support for companies and employees. This support will be targeted. The State will provide the necessary support to both the health sector and the other sectors needed and will introduce the necessary support measures so that economic shock is kept to the minimum and does not have a lasting effect on the economy as a whole. This support will be provided by the country by increasing its government deficit in order to minimise the effects of the Covid-19 crisis on the economy as well as on our households. The Altum Guarantee and the credit program will be renewed. So here the crisis companies will have access to a total of 950 million guarantees in two programmes... EUR 950 million in guarantee funds. These guarantees will be issued and used in three ways. First. For those companies whose loans should, by definition, qualify as supervised or lower quality and banks would not demand these loans back, the State will step in and guarantee these loans and credit volumes so that the company can finance its further development... not development, but hold on to water. Second. Lending is also very important for everyday work, working capital, so that entrepreneurs can buy various raw materials, pay wages, so that they can receive guarantees for exports sent... dispatched goods in export and receive financing if payment of these goods is delayed. Third. Maybe that's a little weird for this time. There are also companies that will develop rapidly, and they need reprofessions, funds to buy fixed assets to invest in... There are also statements that some companies are taking on additional new staff. Similarly, if we are talking about funds, we are on the way to restructuring the European Union's funds. There are 600... about 600 million unused funds that we could use for projects that would allow the consequences of this crisis to be overcome later. We have included the rule that the payment of personal income tax to self-employed workers, which is currently in advance, should be abolished. So you'll be able to pay after the fact. We have also changed the arrangements for refunding VAT... the excess VAT part is refunded to small businesses. If the order was that the State Revenue Service accounted for the funds over the course of the year and then transferred once, then small entrepreneurs will now receive these funds every month after the taxes actually consumed and repaid. Such companies will have an additional €60 million at their disposal, which is a value added tax that will not go to the public budget. And now you've confirmed on the first page... at first reading, the payment of sickness or disability sheets to workers whose work will be directly affected by the virus. A very important deal has been made today. We have achieved with representatives of commercial banks, with the non-financial sector... And the banks today confirmed their willingness to act responsibly and quickly to protect their customers from the direct consequences of the crisis and to enable recovery. Banks will provide credit freedom for both individuals and companies. In order to be able to agree on this, it is imperative that those who have difficulty in repaying them turn to the bank and agree on these conditions. But such an opportunity exists and exists from today in all major commercial banks. Last night's management... The government approved a specially termed draft law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19. The objective is to define the measures, the specific support mechanisms as well as the crisis costs directly linked to the financing of the suppression of the Covid-19’s spread. It is planned that regulation will enter into force retroactively, i.e. on 12 March, when an emergency situation was announced in the country. Here, the draft law provides for concrete measures. I have already spoken of some of them, but the greatest dispute has been between the sectors supported - whether this marginal benefit should be applied to all sectors or, nevertheless, to the sectors supported. Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Ministry of Economics... In cooperation with our state administration institutions, which is the State Revenue Service, the State Social Insurance Agency, we have chosen a way that first of all we must help those companies and groups of companies that have suffered directly from the crisis and this direct... directly affected by government decisions declaring an emergency situation. So there are sectors that, with the adoption of this decision... which has a zero turnover. These are the first sectors we have called that we want to help them. We also understand the situation that this tension is gradually increasing and that more and more sectors are experiencing this domino effect. That is why we do not accept this document for a year or two years. This document will be amended and, in cooperation with our social partners - the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Free Trade Union of Latvia, representatives of companies, the Chamber of Industry and Trade of Latvia - will regularly supplement the regulations developed by the Ministry of Economics on these sectors, which will be defined as being particularly affected. In order to be flexible, we have also stipulated in the draft law that the Cabinet of Ministers, when assessing the economic situation, may set out criteria and procedures for granting companies the measures laid down in this law and special support mechanisms. Why did we choose such a course? First of all, Latvia has never experienced such unprecedented assistance both in financial volume and in the amount of work invested. So we're... To this day, we have collected two billion euros in both financial instruments and direct aid. Secondly, we have chosen to provide this assistance as an opportunity, not as an opportunity for businessmen, but for every individual worker who is an option. And the institution that will pay this idle money is the State Revenue Service. So, first of all, we need to put in place a procedure and a technology so that we can start paying these benefits quickly. And it is only understandable that these payments are precisely in the sectors affected by decisions taken by the government, on the basis of the decisions taken, on the introduction of a crisis situation or an emergency situation. Go on. Tomorrow, tomorrow, Monday, we're going to prepare the next sectors. Within the framework of Article 2, the Ministry of Economics will prepare two regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. So the first of these sectors, which must be supported right away. The State Revenue Service will start operations, develop procedures. And the second rules, where criteria and procedures will be assessed. So both, but we need time for these sectors, which are defined in this draft law as a recommendation to the Ministry of Economics when writing the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, these all sectors are mostly small business... and socially most vulnerable. So these are professions where really pay is close to medium, close to minimal and slightly up. Consequently, there is an immediate need for urgent assistance here, which we need to provide, but also allowing for the development of criteria and the establishment of procedures for companies to receive aid in the future. I'm not talking about months here, I'm talking about weeks, I'm talking about days here. By the end of March, or by 10 April, we need to fully understand and start paying in March, but in April we need to understand the situation. This coincides with the time when the employee would receive remuneration for March. Colleagues, we had such a discussion in the government, we had such a discussion in the Commission, in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, and we are asking for support for such a solution. We're asking... I would also like to assure you that we will evaluate in the government all the proposals that are being tabled, and, as I have already heard, when this draft law is passed on to the Commission, recommendations from political parties have already been incorporated. We will also continue to do so, but the request is to support them in the Saeima... their variant and their settings, as in the government, because we have harmonised it. We have coordinated with both the Ministry of Justice and other ministries, and it is absolutely clear to us what we want to do and how we will do it. If we change, basket, we can sometimes be distorted in such a way that we have not assessed it and there may be side effects. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention. Please support the draft law at first reading. Please support urgency, and then again at the next second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U45	Thank you, Minister. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U46	Hello, colleagues! I won't talk about it, I won't waste time on how much this bill is needed, how much we're right... is to be included. I will talk about what this draft law should improve, or how this draft law is lacking. One of the things I would like to talk about is, first of all, the point where this support will be provided. I strongly disagree with the proposal that has been said that aid should be sectoral. I will justify why, in my opinion, the right view would not be a sectoral cut, but a business cut. In essence, the Minister for Finance also said when he was here: "Why do we want to cut sectors if we want to help businesses more quickly? After all, aid will not be granted to sectors, but to businesses." Why is it so important to look at the business line? Because, firstly, this same aid has been given in business-to-business terms, and secondly, it is that this crisis even affects companies in every sector in different ways. For one company, this aid may be critical, for the other, less critical. On the other hand, in another sector where you believe that you do not need to provide support, these problems have begun and are already falling asleep. That is, what happens when you set a cut for these sectors? In essence, you do not help but make things difficult for yourself. Because in those sectors... Because, as you yourself rightly noted, it is important to provide rapid support. If, on the other hand, you are starting this bureaucracy, which you have already done... You intend to make a sector-by-sector decision, plus, in parallel, you do not give the opportunity to those entrepreneurs who actually have all the features of the crisis, but who are not on these lists (I can say, first of all, they will be the multi-sector companies that are already actually starting to face these problems), you are already creating this tension for them, you are creating already the losses that will cause them. After you put them into this crisis sector, we will all have to pay a lot more. That is why it is a fundamental mistake: at the moment, choose a section for these sectors, not a section for companies. Why, too... Another aspect is that such an approach will create an additional fiscal burden that we will all have to pay for many and many millions. Second point: That is what I said: it is transparency. It is important for a businessman to understand what he can count on. If he is now sitting on the waiting list and does not know - he will be in this sector, there will not be in this sector when he will - he cannot predict his activity. What will he do? He will start to minimise his costs, so he will create additional problems, extra burdens on the social budget, then on the national budget with his actions... Just because you have come up with the cutting of these sectors and not the cutting of companies. This section of the sectors is still absurd from the context, that you will already, when you grant aid, give you, not automatically to the whole sector, anything and any amount, but on the basis of any criteria. Then why not immediately add these criteria and then do not start giving them without these... I'm sorry, stupid cuts of industry. If, on the other hand, you really see that there is a sector that really shouldn't provide support, then we leave the opposite. If you want to keep this opportunity to play by industry, we are simply saying that by default support is for all sectors, but the Cabinet determines those sectors that have not been supported, which have not been included, at present, in the gambling sector. I think there's no need to support... Really, banks don't need to be. At this point in time, I do not see such a need. There may be other sectors. We do this because otherwise there is no argument. The only argument that remains here when these bureaucratic issues... decisions on very large sums of money... They are simply the risks of corruption, that this is being done with a view to the subsequent implementation of serious corrupt schemes, that is to say, that this money can be spilled where someone will, let us say, have a political deal. If that is not the case, colleagues, I call... and I will put forward such a proposal that this support should be based on criteria and not on sectors. Those who qualify for these criteria are also eligible for aid. Another matter of principle to be changed in this draft law is that of this late aid, which is linked to the payment of employees. It is absolutely incomprehensible and absolutely illogical that this proposal is imposing a ceiling of no more than EUR 700. So the very principle that some kind of support is provided to the employees who have to go this off... 75 per cent, in my opinion, is logical and proportionate, but setting a ceiling of EUR 700 - it is completely absurd. What do you get? For those who have really worked and received these higher wages, where really qualified labour: do you think they are idiots? They will say, "Yes, we're going to go and get EUR 700?" No, they're all coming out of unemployment right away... will apply to the unemployed and receive a full amount of... what they are entitled to, and the amount of it will be much higher. And as a result, we will not be immersing ourselves in this way, but will be creating an extra big hole in the social budget. You, of course... if I have a salary of EUR 2000, then I will not sign for them EUR 700, I will apply to the unemployed and take what is due to me under the unemployment contract, that is to say, practically all of this full salary. Consequently, my second proposal is to remove this EUR 700. In parallel to what I would offer: think about such things in this bill that... Maybe those people who stay idle... Look... look at this situation, which is now being given us by the crisis, not only as a challenge, as a problem, but also, in fact, as one big opportunity. Thanks to the fact that this stop will now appear and people will be able to... extra free time, it's an opportunity to start recalibrating them, to offer them the skills they could benefit from when we create this new level... higher productivity economy, let us accept, learn IT skills. And here I would like to see cooperation with... for a government with a sector, with entrepreneurs, where you could run a real online opportunity at this time, because where you don't... if not IT things could be learned online, which people could start learning in parallel. And in this way, we could probably begin to tackle this problem in parallel, which we have, this huge challenge, this shortage of supply, the supply of labour... the IT sector. Because... it is one of the ideas. Next, if we look at it, we have another problem, which will immediately beat up... one of the industries will be mass media, which also... according to... There's such a paradoxal situation... Let's just say, look at this: I think the media content is being spent as never before, the public is following, but the media are getting less... falls because there is no advertising. Advertisements are not given by entrepreneurs because they understand that economic problems are now starting and that they have no motivation. The first thing they turn around... In order to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary, it is necessary But I have an offer: not that you now have the money that you plan to give to the media right... Just throw it in, but let's get him up... advertising budgets. We say to all entrepreneurs who now have ideas, who have come up with how they could run something new in their business: “Here is the money for your marketing expenses, for your advertising!” Let's say the state pays 80... either 90 percent, but you add 10 or 20 percent, and in this way we achieve that these media problems are not financed by one hundred percent of the budget, but are also shared by businessmen in all of this, plus we get some kind of recovery for the economy, that is, these additional opportunities are being launched, say someone... catering establishment to which... that has no customers, but it has come up with, let's say, how you can do something online, and it has the opportunity to notify about these services and thus start your business, continue, move... reducing the losses of those who will be made redundant by having the opportunity to advertise. So this is another... another way that we can use this crisis creatively. Next, I think colleagues, one more thing. The problem is what you... now you will have to deal with it. That's... The fact that part of the economy is located in the white economy is located in this grey economy or in a completely shadow economy. And now the question is: what do we do with those who are in the shadow economy? Because, in principle, if we look at them, they've actually dug a hole for themselves. If we say that you will get what has happened to you so far, what you have paid for can come in such a way that we create a serious burden... the serious burden on these people who have been in this economy, which they will not be able to endure, and this can lead further to social consequences, criminal situations and so on, and so on. Maybe here we can talk about such a lustrations for those who have been in the shadow economy, that they recognise it, that they... Yes, there it has been, this company has been in the shadow economy and will help... assist as a white economy company, provided that it then continues to work in the white economy. In parallel... This is likely to be an undertaking given by the company itself. And that's how we don't just help everyone in a row now... just like that, but we help those who are really prepared to stay in this economy to be responsible members of that society and economy. Well, another very important nuance that I think we should talk about in this bill. Today, a few hours ago, you all stood here in the legs and applauded the doctors for their self - sacrificing work. And it's most strange that in this bill we find billions of other sectors, but the 60 million that medical doctors have promised to pay and that are recorded in the law, we have not yet anticipated. I'm sorry, this is the maximum hypocrisy, but it's simply ridiculed in this sense, either simply political cynicism. And I suggest that if we already find billions of other industries, then we find at least what the medical law required. I will also make such a proposal. And I'll ask you to support it. I would call for something else. I would call for a more intensive dialogue with Latvian banks, with commercial banks, I think here. Because it is clear that they are comfortable, they do not want to risk anything, and in principle they even benefit from the situation. They don't want to eat their bread, that is, credit our businesses because, you see, there are risks. Now we will offer them honeymash - state guarantees - under which you can do so. Well, of course, the banks under it will be ready to do. But here, however, is the question of the social responsibility of banks: how socially responsible are they for our economy, for what is going on here? If they are just ready to earn and are not ready to tolerate any inconvenience, they are ready to do something... to participate with this social responsibility, then we have the question: do we need such a banking system or do we not need to make a fundamental change here? In other words, it may be necessary to think about someone... the creation of a national bank, if we see that those banks that are here are not in principle interested in participating... take part in the resolution of this problem in no way at all. Go on. One important thing I would like the Minister also to say: how will we deliver these billions? I understand that there are many opportunities. Yes, I understand that there are many opportunities. They can be provided in different ways - can be ensured in a smarter way, can be ensured in a less intelligent way, that is, can be ensured in a cheaper way, can be ensured in a more expensive way. One of the opportunities I have heard about what the European Central Bank is preparing... The 750 billion programme of support specifically related to this virus. How are we prepared to take this money? Because we're just not going to get it. Does Latvia, the Latvian Government already have a plan how we can take this money to enter our economy so that we can deal with... not only for that money, not only for our pensioners' money, which is now in a well-earned social budget, but also to attract side-by-side money? Because, in my opinion, colleagues, this is one very important thing that everyone needs to understand. Now... What do I see? I see that there are repeated past crises here, let us say so, the apheristical options, namely tackling this crisis to a social, purely social budget. In other ways, I do not see any other explanation for the absurd proposal that is currently being put in: to limit the support of this idle to EUR 700. Because what that means is very well understood. So all those who have big wages don't go away. They're going to be unemployed. This means that it will be exhausted... social budget. I understand why this is being done: because we have over-exploitation in the social budget, we are currently over-exploitation. And it is therefore beneficial to spend this cushion once again, which was made up for the future of pensioners. Spend simply conveniently to deal with this crisis. And I would ask you to think about it, if it's the most responsible thing. That's why, in my opinion, these are principle... three basic things that we have... at least those three principal cases, which should be provided for in the law which should be amended. Firstly, no section of the sectors. It's a business cut. We look at the criteria to exclude corruption. If we want to really exclude some sectors from this which is justified... what the Minister said that not everyone needs... We set out concrete which ones will be, which do not need. As I said, the gambling industry. It certainly does not need to help at the moment. Go on. The other is about this limitation on the support of the deadlock. We have to get those 700 out of here. It is logical to leave those 75 percent and, in parallel, to think about it, given that people will stay in this dive for a long time. We won't be... Let us not be illusions! The way we're fighting this... with this virus, it will continue for quite a long time. Unfortunately, we are dealing with these self-insulation issues in a way that is not effective enough to humiliate ourselves with this crisis for a long time. This means that, in parallel, thought should be given to those people who are in the idle to offer them alternative options. One was about what I said about these trainings, and the other was that they could perhaps take part in some of the things that would be needed to combat the crisis for some additional, perhaps additional, salary. And so to motivate that they are not simply excluded, are idle, but do something useful for Latvian society, for our economy. Perhaps, as far as the same infrastructure is concerned, if we are talking about the same self-insulation, let us say about the hotel infrastructure that will remain now unused, which could be used in some way. Of course, taking into account everything you need... these sanitary and crisis criteria. As my fellow Members, I call for responsibility and for these fundamental matters to be resolved. So the cut of the companies, rather than the cut of the sectors, remove this minimum criterion from the idle, the maximum criterion from the idle and take care of the medical profession. It is not simply with the plentiful but with the real decisions that we are making. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U47	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Mārtiņš Staķis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U48	Madam President, As a Member, I will speak now... Not like...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U49	In the system you have applied as Parliamentary Secretary, so...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U50	Yes, honourable colleagues! Several world leaders have already called the Covid-19 war. And under war conditions, well-prepared, perfectly-planned, but a late attack brings more damage, more failure than perhaps incompletely-planned, perhaps with some detail that is not yet well-designed, but rather timely. And if we look at this plan proposed by the government, then there is certainly still room for improvement. Probably there's some details to improve now... but it is very important that we act immediately and now. And this economic rescue plan will be vital support for many businesses to keep them above water. Many workers, too, who will receive direct government support to cope with these difficult times. And that's a very good start. At the same time, the proposed economic recovery plan can be improved. The entire national economy has suffered from the coronavirus crisis, not just from individual sectors. When determining the companies to be supported, I think that, rather than what sectors they represent, other criteria should also be taken into account. I stress that in the next steps it is possible to identify a fall in turnover, not a sector, as a key criterion. In conversations with people I know, companies, I... and businessmen, I have heard such a ignorance, despair and such hopelessness. And these are those that do not represent sectors that have now been identified as particularly affected. The same feeders are currently faced with the fact that simply wholesalers do not deliver... and, as is known, wholesalers are not among the sectors currently being supported. However, they too, colleagues, have employees who are not already receiving salaries, who have to keep their families and pay credit. It is also important to remember about NGOs or NGOs. Many of them are active in the field of social care. And it is NGOs that can effectively help those in difficulty in times of crisis. These organisations can quickly mobilise and train many volunteers. There are people in Latvia who are ready to serve society without any additional consideration, but they must be helped to provide for example by means of protection and... of course also provide NGOs with funding. So that I call on you fellow Members: let us support the government's offer, but let us also start working to improve and supplement it at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U51	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U52	I will support at first reading, but in order to support at second reading, we must prevent this, let us call it a mistake: that is, not an enterprise, but a sector... as is now foreseen. I really believe (and it has no connection that I am in opposition) differently... I believe that this is a fundamental mistake that makes all this good idea, as you say, nothing about anything, if not worse. I'll explain a few things in this... Very much Ivars Zarins has already said to whom I largely agree, but entrepreneurs are making decisions today. Tomorrow is Saturday, Sunday, they will make decisions on Saturday, Sunday. At the time we leave this medicine, there will be a list of business sectors that we support, which means that there will be those that are not supported... they will make other decisions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Exactly!” ) They will make bad decisions for the Latvian economy. Maybe good for yourself, by the way, but bad for the Latvian economy. They'll do it tonight, tomorrow and the other day. They won't wait Monday. And even if there is someone among them who believes that this list of sectors will be updated... and I'm not saying that the Minister is not going to do this if even he understands one elementary thing... That it will end with the whole NASSE... as they say, a list of the sectors included in the classification. All must be included, I don't know... OK, prostitution, weapons and drug addiction may not. I'm laughing at this shit. But everything else will have to be included. What does that mean? If we do not have clear criteria and all are included, all cannot be saved! Our task today is to inspire industries to overcome this crisis, help them, but most importantly: to understand that we... We need to protect the backbone of the economy that when this nightmare ends... which will start to work and pay taxes and discharge the national budget. And another thing that is no less important, or even more important than what I just said. Our business organisations have developed their own perspective, their own criteria, their own approach. I know about how it ended up... It wasn't a simple job. There were also internal disputes. As always, someone wants to miss the line, as everywhere. They've developed... First of all, I think they are very reasonable. Second, true people who were our wisest heads in the economy worked there. But there's one important thing here. We're taking this... I already said to John Ray: you and the government, and all of us need this today... the positions of the business organisation behind the government, not against it. Not to fight them now, but to give them every effort on their side. They have proposals; I believe that they are now more qualitative than what the government is bringing; this is not a criticism of the government. Take them, put them in your team, put them under your responsibility - the responsibility to sign up to every support that will be provided in the sectors they represent - the responsibility to sign up! Finally, move the Ministry of Economics to the LTRK. The Prime Minister is also in charge of the crisis. What he needs: let businessmen stand behind him so that they... that he has the best advice and, at the same time, the responsibility of all jointly and severally in Latvia. I mean... I call upon you, even if we have to sit down to night, correct this mistake. And I am very happy to support the second reading. I'll be in the first position now, but I'll be in the right position! That's... There's no position here, opposition. This is common sense. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U53	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U54	Yeah... Colleagues! I think that this draft law is, of course, about economic issues. But one thing. I think it's not normal if, in this time period... Today we are not voting for the Minister for Economic Affairs as such. It is not normal that we do not have a minister for the economy today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “It saves!” ) We do not have a Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I think that, in today's circumstances and looking at this particular draft law, it is not really right. And here the coalition should be able to agree whether it's one of... one of the coalitions, whether it's unparticipatory, whatever, but the minister at this moment... who represents the sector must be, there must be a voice of businessmen, and that is clearly a minister for the economy. In terms of improvements. I will also submit a number of proposals for the same draft law. I can say right away: I will not survive very much if they are rejected today. I understand the situation. But I very much hope that they will be until Tuesday... government will be examined and examined. And... because these proposals have been made... which I will submit, to a large extent after cooperation... after discussions directly with the municipalities. And I think that, at the moment, municipalities are doing a lot in the context of this law, and municipalities also have contracts with entrepreneurs, various commitments they accept... the same problems at national level. But there are different... different cuts to their problems. And, in my opinion, at present no successful model has been found to involve the creation of this law by municipalities. It would be... Find a way to better involve them. This is happening very quickly at the moment. But that would be what I would call who would... I think that it would only be beneficial for everyone to have these really practical proposals, which could be. Of course, I also believe that more should be thought about... Not just for companies... And, of course, behind every company there are people... There are also decisions that we have taken on unemployment benefits in the budget package: a reduction of six months. I think this question should be returned. In particular, it is necessary to think and evaluate, to evaluate rapidly, the practices in Italy. We've already discussed with our colleagues here. They have a practice in relation to those citizens who are in the shadow economy. You like it or you don't like it, but they're also residents, and they're... none of these solutions provides an opportunity to help in some way. Solutions have been found, at least in Italy, there is an approach to how to address that issue. We too should see how we can help. Unfortunately, there are quite a lot of people who still work in the shadow economy, but neither do they deserve to be punished, nor do they need to find some solution to help them, any programme, wherever they can work. Yeah, okay, colleagues, that's all of me. The main emphasis is on the fact that I am calling for more local authorities to be involved in this process.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U55	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U56	Hello, colleagues! Prime Ministers! I would just like to draw attention to one thing: these sectoral lists, especially those of the sectors to be supported. I think that, in this situation, it is not necessary to draw up such lists; we need to look at the business line. I would like to mention the catering sector, which has also been recorded and which the Cabinet of Ministers has looked at, as an example. Yeah, that's where many companies really... they actually have a turnover of zero because there is no visit, but at the same time there are also catering companies that have so far only worked on orders and delivered home products, and they are working on full capacity, not even able to serve all their customers. And that means there is a significant increase in turnover. Similarly, if we're talking about company level, now it's... Now it's not just catering. There are also those who supply them various products. And, for example, restaurants are supplied with various greens and... which comes from specific holdings... If the restaurant is hard, now it really has no way of selling it anywhere, it has to go to the markets, which are now too limited. Since I do not think it is necessary to draw up such a list, it is necessary to look specifically at the company's turnover. It seems to me that the State Revenue Service has very good information, because reports are submitted every month, where you can see what turnover has been. And in this case, those companies that have a significant fall in turnover can check it, they can check it electronically... and these should also be the sectors that need to be supported. Because if we say: just that, that industry, then what will happen to those companies where the turnover is 70... 80 percent... or even can not be sold at all. And you're also thinking of a lot of domestic producers who have actually driven and sold their products in different markets that are now hard. Then there remain, of course, direct supplies, but they have not developed direct supply chains. And it's a job that must start at the beginning. So I would recommend really refrain from dividing the good, the bad. We will certainly have the main criterion here for turnover and how that turnover has fallen in relation to the moment when there was no crisis. So please follow this. There aren't just those sectors, there will be small companies... agricultural enterprises and many others, which also serve larger enterprises. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U57	Thank you. Name to Member Martin Stein. Please! Do Members have reservations that a Member unites both speaking times? Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U58	Good afternoon again, the chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! Ministers! Resurrection! I would also like, first of all, to thank all those working in the health care system, all the policemen, the foreign reserve, all those who are now on the front line and are taking care of the safety of the whole of society. And I would also like to thank everyone who is leading and coordinating this crisis. And also special thanks to non-governmental organisations and volunteers. May health, strength and endurance all this time! I am, of course, in favour of this draft law and its urgent adoption today, but given that this draft law is being amended, I would like to draw the attention of the government and also our attention to the fact that we must not forget about a sector that also needs to be supported. And it's a non-governmental sector. The work of a number of non-governmental organisations is already indispensable, especially in areas such as social and health care. Without giving help to non-governmental organisations, we are threatening their work, for example, for the benefit of patients with oncology, for the benefit of hepatitis B and C, and for the benefit of people infected with HIV. We must not allow the remote consultation work of a range of support phones maintained by non-governmental organisations to be disrupted. The Government has commissioned the responsible ministries to prepare and submit for consideration at the Cabinet of Ministers the draft regulations on support measures to non-governmental organisations by the next Tuesday. I will mention a number of types of support that the non-governmental sector would need. It is necessary to ensure continuity of services provided by social associations and foundations in order to ensure that organisations have the rights and the opportunities to protect vulnerable groups and avoid the spread of other non-Covid-19 diseases. States and local authorities must provide such providers with a material base determined by the government so that they can comply with safety measures and hygiene requirements. The government must ensure that orders of the Ministry of Welfare of all municipalities concerning the organisation of work in an emergency are applied in the same way, without prohibiting the provision of the services necessary for the various social groups. At present, there are differences in the approach of municipalities. Associations and foundations, which are employers, but are affected by the crisis and cannot employ employees, must also compensate employees for their remuneration in accordance with the procedure and to the extent specified by the Cabinet of Ministers. Associations and foundations also need support - to exempt from rental fees or to make a reduction in rental fees and not apply sanctions for the duration of the law. Taxpayers of societies and foundations affected by the crisis should also have the right to apply for an extension of the period for payment of taxes. Measures should also be imposed on administrators of projects financed by the State and municipalities so that costs incurred as a result of the Covid-19 crisis that could not be avoided can be considered eligible if the association or foundation proves that those costs could not be avoided. In addition, associations and foundations involved in projects financed by the State and municipalities should be eligible for the payment of remuneration and office maintenance costs in the event that the organisation proves that the employee's illness was due to the Covid-19 crisis and confirms that the planned results... the performance indicators will be achieved within the project framework. It should also be decided to allocate additional funding to the NGO Fund, allowing the Society Integration Fund, possibly associations and foundations affected by the Covid-19 crisis, to finance administrative expenditure and for the recovery of post-crisis activities. I understand that the Ministry of Culture and the NGO sector are currently working together to find the best solution. I call on the government to take into account, as far as possible, the proposals made by NGOs and to maintain the communication of the crisis with the sector. I would also like to thank those who are already in this crisis... and also to those who have already lost their jobs and are ready to give their free time to the public, I would like to thank all those who are currently engaged in voluntary work. A number of non-governmental organisations are professional volunteer organisations. Currently several Facebook pages have been created on a platform where volunteers gather. Active people have also developed a digital solution in recent days. NGOs, including youth organisations, mobilise their volunteers to help those in self- isolation and those at risk - seniors and people with chronic diseases. Volunteers are already helping to provide food, medicines, other necessary goods in quarantine and self-insulation, to get rid of waste, and to take away pets. Some volunteers work in different call centers and help people who are in different difficulties at this time. These organisations must also provide government support so that their work does not stop in times of crisis. And it is the responsibility of the volunteers themselves that is very important in these circumstances. It is important that there is an organisation of safe volunteering during this crisis. Together with our colleagues, we have developed guidelines for safe volunteering during the Covid-19 crisis, we will publish them today. We invite all volunteers to follow them and use them. In the public space there are also various other invitations and information that I call... which I call on volunteers to use. All established safety rules must be complied with in the course of voluntary work. Derogations from the safety requirements approved by the Disease Prevention and Control Centre should not be allowed, as the potential consequences could affect all operators and operators of voluntary work. It is the work of NGOs to coordinate volunteering that is essential at this time. And I really advise volunteers to look for coordinators... and on these platforms... and don't do it alone. And... Well, yes, another one... a few things. I call for voluntary work only for those who are convinced of their health. If there are any symptoms, I urge you not to volunteer. Safety requirements must be respected not only in the course of voluntary work but also in the form and location of information material. And... Yes, I call again very strongly on volunteers to comply with safety requirements and to deal with them with them with great seriousness. And I call for every effort to be made to prevent this crisis from reaching the non-governmental sector and volunteers. And I call on those who are at home to provide support in a virtual way, because it is also necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U59	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please! Do Members have reservations that a Member is asking to unite his or her speaking time... in time? Members shall not object. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U60	Colleagues and the whole Latvian society! This will, of course, be my subjective view, but I invite you to listen to it. I will start by making one critical remark and then making my own proposals, which I think should be considered and implemented. My critical remark is that the planned support of 155 thousand Latvians, even for the size of Latvia, is small. In my view, it is butaphoric if the government and Parliament do not review the entire budget unless they review the budget heading. Then it is butaphoric support. But for everything in turn. I think first of all, we must stop hoping that, in two months' time, everything will be back on the old tracks. No, it won't. You don't have to philosophie about economic stimulation. It is like talking about physical therapy for a patient who is currently being prepared for resuscitation. Physiotherapy will be required, but later. At the moment, we are focusing on saving the patient, that is to say, the ability of our citizens and our country to pay for the critical costs and treatment affected by the epidemic, if necessary. That's primary. And in this case, the event numbers one thing that should be done - the entire state budget of the Republic of Latvia should be reviewed; we cannot leave a chapter in the budget as it is at the moment. Secondly, the good news is that our country - both the Treasury, businesses, banks and some of us - has enough money to be able to function for at least some time in a crisis regime. Not just... assume that everyone will have to show solidarity and help each other... and, in this case, I would like to thank those companies that have publicly declared their support to medical practitioners, but I would like to call on the whole of society to show solidarity and help each other. But in this case, I also call for it to be done when the funds end, and there will certainly be a part of the society to which they end. In my opinion, the first simple and practical steps to be taken by the end of this week are, in fact, necessary to legitimise the emergency situation in the country. In particular, not only in the form that we have declared that there is an emergency, but in essence we have to declare a state of force majeure. What will that do? This will give us the following: in order for economic operators to be fearlessly unable to meet their contractual obligations towards their customers and suppliers, they can close a business that is not linked to basic needs, namely food production and supplies, the manufacture and supply of medicines, utility services and similar sectors. So the official force majeure situation. The government must come to the aid of economic operators in this respect, so that economic operators do not have to be tried at a later stage. This will be costly and will only be worse, because a honest businessman will also not abuse this situation and will continue to fulfil his obligations. One more thing. In my opinion, it is necessary to allow workers to be legally dismissed without complying with the statutory time limits for dismissal. If the company does not have the money to pay to its employees, and this is definitely the case for many, then we do not need the illusion that the money will come from itself. The wards, but the state must bear this burden on itself, but employers must try to make redundancies by solidarity with their workers as much as possible, so that we all have, and so to speak, a less dread in the country. Businesses must be able to unilaterally reduce wages during the crisis, thus helping their employees, even if they are in forced absence. Such reduced wages should generally be exempt from taxation. That is to say, allowing entrepreneurs to reduce their wages while allowing them to pay no tax for these wages at the moment, in an emergency. So not just to introduce tax holidays, I think, but to do what I have just said. The better it is to keep the employee with a lower salary than to dismiss this employee. The calculation and application of all types of penalties for late payments - neither interest nor contractual penalties - should be prohibited. By law, it is now, in my opinion, prohibited. And it must be prohibited from Monday. It is necessary to prohibit all recovery activities - also by law - as well as banks from realizing all financial pledges against their customers. They too, in my opinion, must be prohibited by law during an emergency. For all consumer loans, in my opinion, the state must set a maximum interest rate of five per cent per year. This time will be grateful for the fertilisation of the poorest part of the population, but the country must not be allowed to do so. Thus, it is prohibited to produce in excess of five percent a year. I have to deny... In my opinion, during an emergency, gambling halls should be banned so that our most unscrupulous members of society do not spend money on stupidity. If this is not the case, then gambling needs to increase taxes dramatically. That's what I said a week ago. It is simply a case of understanding that, in an emergency, it is also necessary to make harsh but courageous decisions, and that is only to warm up. Next, more serious measures. I think that the Treasury should think about the next 1.5 billion or 2 billion, think about where to borrow them. It is important that this money comes from abroad. This should also be done from Monday, as decisions are likely to be made over the world's financial system for a long time now. It will be our financial reserve for a white day. Our Prime Minister is proud that we, Latvia, have a high credit rating. Well then right now is the time to use this credit rating. In my opinion, there should be a temporary ban on the transfer of large amounts abroad. Money must remain in Latvia. For all employees of public and municipal authorities and businesses, for the duration of the emergency, so a month now, the maximum wage should be set at EUR 500 per hand, i.e. after tax. This is sufficient to meet basic critical needs. Members and ministers should also set the same remuneration during the emergency. All staff in the medical, home and defence services now have to set a minimum wage of EUR 1 500 after tax. It is solidarity, and it is people who are currently working most actively for our country. And that must be done, I think, from Monday. During this period, they will be those who risk their lives and health, and we must ensure that they do not have to think about the cost of their family's critical expenses. In my opinion, all the young unemployed affected by the crisis should be able to apply for unemployment benefit electronically, and the Ministry of Welfare should be able to decide on the granting of unemployment benefit on a single, maximum, two-day basis, with the exclusion of all redundant procedures. At the same time, the country must think today, just as Sweden has done, how to reprofil a number of public authorities, how to reprofil those who will remain unemployed in other businesses. I think that all social payments - pensions, unemployment benefits, sickness benefits and so on - should be subject to a ceiling during the emergency, which is EUR 500 per person per month. On your hand. The money saved should be used to provide emergency assistance. In my opinion, the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the FCTC, the Bank of Latvia and commercial banks should agree on the granting of state-guaranteed interest-free or very small interest-bearing consumer loans. If the crisis continues, more radical measures will be needed than those currently adopted. Benefits for the payment of critical expenses will probably also be needed in a month or two. These measures, however, may very probably wait for now, but I think they need to be remembered. In my opinion, all public utility providers throughout the country should be monitored with the aim of providing financial assistance quickly so that service provision is not interrupted. We have to think about freezing utility bills. In addition, at the moment it is unacceptable to send road police vehicles with raids on the streets in order to put every offender on the ground and to put some additional funds into the budget. That is also, in my opinion, an economic marodiar. And that's all just a warm-up. Because, in my opinion, this situation will not happen and will not end in a month. And I want to say something else to the public. I would like to say the following to the entire public listening to this transmission and who will be watching the recordings of this transmission later. The basic principle of any crisis is simple, especially in the context of super-crisis. In other words, we cannot rest in times of crisis. On the contrary! The crisis must work twice as much and twice as possible. We cannot make traditional decisions in an unconventional situation; we must make different, untraditional decisions to get out of this untraditional situation. Resting in good times. It works in hard times, and it is a fundamental principle, and it applies to everyone. And what can be done, and what should be done to all those who sit at home? Read, think about how to learn a new profession, and start learning it right now. Work at least with yourself and not for eight, but for 16 hours a day! It will now not only be useful, but will inevitably and vitally need. What should the Prime Minister remember? All redundant workers cannot and will not be fed just the same way, because this measure is going to be felt economically now, in my opinion, at least by December. And even if this does not seem to be the case, we need to take action, as I have already mentioned, as Swedishs, for example, reskill the stwarts or, in our case, the officials sitting at home, for the technical assistance of the Medpersonal, for example, whether we have a mass of that billion and the two that the Minister of Finance is talking about today, to use, among other things, to build the reserves of the Medpersonal, at least in terms of technical staff. For example, at the Ministry of Agriculture, at present, officials have no objective idea what to do. This means that they already need, at least in part, to be re-qualified and involved in other work so as not to create a situation where there are a number of people sitting at home and paying for it. The country will not draw it in the long term. And I call people... to work as children’s children, to help technical work where necessary and so on, apply voluntarily now. However, if this does not work, it should probably be achieved even by administrative coercion methods. The same applies to restaurant and hotel workers, as hotels have already actually stopped now at least until May. There is a need to reskill, for example, workers in manufacturing industries. As I read this morning, for example, the fish industry company Kaija is looking for workers. Such companies also exist in other sectors. Finally, there is also an opportunity to fill up the armed forces. In other words, money should not be used to throw bombs in the Pound of Adazi, but to involve people. This will prevent slippery and marodierism in the future if, without God’s giving, the worst scenarios are fulfilled. Finally. Small, unpopular, but I think it's the right thing. Food shops do not need to shorten their hours, but to extend them, perhaps even to shift to the day - to - day routine in order to dissolve the crowding of people and the times of their visit. For example, in Israel. And I think there's no fools living in Israel. I call on the whole of society, I call on the position and the opposition: take seriously the proposals and issues that I have mentioned, because without budgetary consolidation and a drastic revision of the budget, everything else will be just a butaphoria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U61	I closed the debate. Mr Bondara, on behalf of the Commission, do you want to add something? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondar: “No!” ) Don’t you want to? Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and for the time when the draft law will be examined at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U62	Colleagues, the deadline for the second reading is 15 minutes. Second reading: an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 March this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U63	I do not see any other proposals, so the deadline is 15 minutes. And consideration at the extraordinary sitting of 20 March this year. Dear colleagues, Consequently, all the items on the agenda for this - the second extraordinary meeting of 20 March - have been dealt with. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Thank you. Before the results of the registration are summarised and read by Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, the statements are to be made by the chairmen of the commissions. Please, Mr Bondara, on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U64	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission convenes an extraordinary sitting in 15 minutes, no, now in 20 minutes. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U65	Thank you. The name of the Member Flyre on the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U66	The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs shall convene a meeting on the premises of the Commission of European Cases after 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U67	Thank you. And Mr Wittenberg's name is the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U68	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy convenes a meeting on 16.30 (interim: ‘Where?’ ) today.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U69	Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U70	Yes, honourable Members! The Council of political groups, together with the Bureau, shall be held in the Red House five minutes later.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U71	So in five minutes' time, a meeting of the Council of political groups has been announced. Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U72	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Jānis Ādamsons, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Jānis Dombrava, Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Andris Kazinovskis, Ivans Klementjevs, Janīna Kursīte, Ināra Mūrniece, Ralfs Nemiro, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Linda Ozola, Inguna Rībena, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Andris Skride (Dep. A. Skride: “I’m here!” )... yes, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova and Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2056-U73	Thank you. And again, as the chair of the sitting, I invite you to look at your mobile phones from time to time. You will be informed in good time of the time when the next extraordinary sitting was convened, because in this extraordinary sitting we decided that the draft laws at second reading would still be dealt with today. So please pay attention to the text messages you receive from the Saeima Administration. So today, on 20 March, I declare the second extraordinary sitting closed. Thank you. Goodbye.
