ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the extraordinary sitting of 16 April 2020, which is held in part at a distance. Dear colleagues, We work on the same procedures as those used by the Saeima in previous sittings on 2 and 3 April. I just want to remind you again: to apply for a discussion on the draft laws submitted, please use your e-mail... The Saeima e-mail and send this application to the Saeima.sede@sayima.lv, indicating if you will speak “for” or “for”. Use green pages to table a debate on the subject. Dear colleagues, Before we start to discuss the agenda of the sitting, Members Jušas, Feldmans, Mārtuža, Ozola, Rancāns and others ask for a period of debate on the issues to be discussed: for the first time – three minutes, for the second time – one minute. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Yes!” ) Please call us! Let us vote for an extraordinary session of the Saeima on 16 April 2020 to determine the time for the debate: for the first time - three minutes, and for the second time - one minute! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Thank you. Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U2	... on reducing the time for debate by three minutes, speaking for the first time, one minute, speaking for the second time. Result of the vote: no vote: 64, no vote: 24, no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U3	Thank you. So the decision has been made. The debate time, speaking for the first time – three minutes, for the second time – one minute. Please turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko, who wants to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Mourniece, at the moment you said... You came up with a new proposal from our colleagues... between the moment and the moment we had to vote, I think it took a few seconds. During this time no person could write an email with an application to talk “for” or “for”. I ask you to follow the appropriate procedure and in a situation in which the rights of the opposition are restricted, but to choose the way, so that you are not ashamed afterwards. And more. Ladies and gentlemen, if you continue to limit the time of the debate, please also remember that it is also possible to apply for an increase in the time of the debate, in line with the rule of the Saeima. You will not want to see the opposition submit countless requests to increase the debate time to five minutes; this will "hang up" the entire Saeima... system. Therefore, please respect your colleagues. You have no precedent that the debate would have lasted... would have lasted too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U5	All right, thank you to Mrs Stepanenko, who had applied to speak on the procedure. Obviously, we must all learn to work a little bit over and I understand that a break was also needed to allow Members to apply and express their views. So let's keep working. The decision has been taken. On the agenda, reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members shall not give rise to any negative attitude. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law on prevention and management of state threats and consequences due to the spread of Covid-19” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Mr. Mūrniece! I'm sorry! For the procedure!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U6	Mrs. Moore! Given that all colleagues are not in the same room, however, I have been asked to have a little more pause on the question of whether there are objections or not. I understand that there will probably be no objection to these draft laws, but yet, if any other halls...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U7	Mr. Gobzem! About these draft laws... So it's about commissioning... had the opportunity to apply from your own, Member, email, and I call for this opportunity to be used in good time as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U8	Yes, but Members may have reservations...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U9	Please turn off the microphone for Member Gobzem! We are continuing the Saeima sitting. So, colleagues, please follow the procedures! They are described, sent to each of you by e-mail, and I invite you to stick to them. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust. Draft decision “On Release of the judge of the Supreme Court Vandas Cīrule from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U10	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 April, the draft decision on the release of the judge of the Supreme Court of Vanda Cīrule from the office of a judge was reviewed at his own wish – due to his departure in earned rest. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. Judicial awards: 1998 – letter of recognition of the Supreme Court on a long-term fair work and significant contribution to strengthening of the rule of law; 2005 – significance of the X-year of the Supreme Court; 2008 – letter of recognition of the Supreme Court on a long-term fair work and significant contribution to strengthening of the rule of law; 2008 – significance of the XV-year of the Supreme Court; 2010 – mark of the third stage of the judicial system; 2013 – significance of the XX-year of the Supreme Court; 2018 – significance of the XX-year of the Supreme Court. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I would like to thank the judge for her work and I call on 30 April 2020 to release the Supreme Court judge Vanda Cīrulis from the office of the judge at his own wish.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U11	Thank you. Are Members willing to debate this issue? There was an opportunity to apply for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of the Supreme Court Judge Vandas Cīrule from the office of a judge”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U12	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision “On the release of the Supreme Court judge Vanda Cīrule from the office of a judge”: for – 90, there are no votes against and abstains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U13	Thank you. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Dismissal of the judge of the Supreme Court Edite Vernusa from the position of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U14	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 April, a draft decision on the release of the judge of the Supreme Court Edite Vernus from the office of a judge was reviewed – due to his departure in earned rest. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. Judicial awards: 2009 – Meaning of the Day of the X-year of the Supreme Court; 2010 – Letter of recognition of the Supreme Court on a long-term honest work and significant contribution to strengthening of the rule of law; 2012 – Supreme Court Themis Award “The Year of Justice”; 2012 – Fair Mark of the Second Degree of the Court of Justice; 2014 – Meaning of the XV-Year of the Supreme Court; 2018 – Supreme Court Themis Award “Special Themis Award”; 2018 – State Award – Class IV of the Order of Three Stars; 2019 – Meaning of the Day of the 20th year of the Supreme Court. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I would like to thank the judge for her work and call on the judge of the Supreme Court, Edite Vernuša, to be released from the office of the judge by 30 April 2020 at his own wish.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Dismissal of the judge of the Supreme Court Edite Vernus from the office of a judge”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U16	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of voting on the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of the Supreme Court Edīte Vernus from the office of a judge”: for – 87, there are no votes against and abstains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U17	Thank you. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Dismissal of Irena Logina of the Riga Regional Court Judge from the position of judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U18	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 April, the draft decision on the release of Irena Logina, a judge of Riga regional court, from the office of a judge at his own wish – due to his departure in earned rest was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On 2 October 1997 the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Irēna Logina as the judge of Riga District Court. On 30 September 1999, the Saeima approved Irēna Logina as a judge of Riga District Court. On 11 January 2007, the Saeima approved Irēna Logina as a judge of Riga Regional Court, while releasing him from office of a judge of Riga District Court. On 27 March 2014, the Judicial Qualification Board carried out an assessment of the professional activities of the judge by issuing a positive opinion. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I would like to thank the judge for her work and call on the judge of Riga Regional Court, Irēna Logina, to be dismissed from office as a judge at his own wish, with effect from 7 May 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Irena Logina of the Riga Regional Court Judge from the office of a judge”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U20	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of voting on the draft decision “On the dismissal of Irena Logina of the Riga Regional Court judge from the position of a judge”: for – 91, there are no votes against and abstains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U21	Thank you. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the approval of Elīna Slišāne as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U22	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 April, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Elīna Slišāne as a judge of the district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Elīna Slišānai to approve the judge of district (city) court without limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Elīna Slišāne as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U24	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision ‘On the approval of Elīna Slišāne as a district (city) court judge’: for – 88, it is not against and refrains from –.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U25	Thank you. Decision adopted. The decision ‘On the approval of Ulda Apsiša as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U26	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 April, the draft decision ‘On the approval of the judge Ulda Apsitis as a district (city) court judge’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Uldis Apsīte to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Ulda Apsīša as a district (city) court judge”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U28	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision ‘On the approval of Ulda Apsīšas as a district (city) court judge’: for – 88, it is not against and refrains from –.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U29	Thank you. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the re-appointment of Sally Vikentyeva as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U30	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 April, the draft decision ‘On the re-appointment of Judge Sally Vikentyeva as a district (city) judge’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Sally Vikentyeva to re-appoint as a judge of a district (city) court for a period of up to two years.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U31	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the re-appointment of Sally Vikentyeva as a judge of district (city) court! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U32	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision ‘On the re-appointment of Sally Vikentyeva as a judge of a district (city) court’: 88, does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U33	Thank you. Decision adopted. The decision ‘On the appointment of the Līga Cielava as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U34	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 April, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of the Līga Cielava as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to appoint Līga Cielava as a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U35	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of the Līga Cielava as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U36	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision ‘On the appointment of the Līga Cielava as a judge of a district (city) court’: 86
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U37	Thank you. Decision adopted. The President of the Republic of Crimea is hereby authorised to designate the person(s) empowered to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on behalf of the On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U38	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 April, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Guna Troika as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Gunu Troika to appoint a judge of a district (city) court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Guna Troika as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U40	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Guna Troika as a judge of a district (city) court’: 88, does not exist and refrains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U41	Thank you. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2020”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U42	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Mrs. Moore! The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined the draft decision... So... agree to the reallocation of the appropriations established for the “On the State Budget for 2020” from the budget sub-programme of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development 23.01.00 “State Environment Service” in the amount of 13 348 EUR to the budget programme of the Ministry of Transport 97.00 “S sectoral management and policy planning” in order to ensure maintenance of infrastructure. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has supported this draft decision. We ask you, colleagues, to support this... Amendment to the Law on the State Budget 2020 Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U43	Thank you. No Members came to the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the re-allocation of the appropriations established by the Saeima in the Law “On the State Budget for 2020””! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U44	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of voting on the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2020””: for – 85, there are no votes against and refrains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U45	Thank you. Decision adopted. The draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 7 April 2020 No. No 161 and 9 April 2020. Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008 on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 108, 25.4.2008, p. 1). 103 Promulgating an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At its meeting on 15 April 2020, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention examined the documents submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on the extension of the state of emergency until 12 May 2020 and amendments to Resolution No. 103 promulgating an emergency. I will identify the most significant amendments and additions. So the first. The list of institutions entitled to exclude from the application of the Public Procurement Law the purchase of goods and services necessary to control the outbreak of Covid-19 virus, medical treatment, the organisation of relevant public events and the organisation of a distance learning process has been updated and clarified. The standards of the Law on Public Procurement may not apply to the Saeima, state and municipal capital companies and institutions for the aforementioned purposes. Second. It is stipulated that citizens and citizens of the European Union should be allowed to cross the border once, so that they can return to their home countries. Third. Before returning to the Republic of Latvia, the person shall in future provide written proof of compliance with the rules of self-insulation, as well as information about himself, including the actual place of residence in which the person is to be reached. The carrier concerned shall be responsible for transmitting these questionnaires to the State Border Guard. The Ministry of Health has also been given the task of preparing measures to deal with the body of a dead person who has been infected with Covid-19 or who has been suspected of being infected. It is also stipulated that a zero rate applies to all calls to the information phone 8303 of all electronic communications networks. In addition, it is foreseen that Covid-19 does not constitute an accident at the workplace and the institutions of the system of the Ministry of the Interior do not have to investigate it in accordance with existing internal laws and regulations. It is also foreseen that the grant received by the municipality for the catering of children can be used for the catering of learners, who come from poor, less well provided or large families regardless of the form or location of the education of the learners. In the future, the State Police and the municipal police will also carry out control of Covid-19 infected persons and their contacts in cooperation with the Health Inspectorate. The police shall also have the right to search for and forced delivery of the persons referred to in the quarantine facilities or actual residence. It is also stipulated that the requirements of the border crossing ban will not apply to seafarers returning to Latvia or... in order to be able to enter the workplace on board the ship. It is established that the Ministry of Economics also decides on the authorisation of ethyl alcohol with the respective concentration for export outside the territory of Latvia, while the Health Inspectorate is required to monitor the market for disinfectants. Under certain conditions, purchases of personal protective equipment which are not currently subject to an evaluation procedure or have been fully completed and which are not labelled with the CE marking shall be permitted in public procurement. It is also stipulated that institutions which have made purchases without applying the Law on Public Procurement shall publish at least the following information on their websites: name of the supplier, registration number, subject of the procurement, volume and contract price. After hearing the reports of the institutions, the Commission considered the extension of the emergency situation and the relevant amendments to be justified, appropriate and necessary. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft decision submitted.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U47	Thank you. Let's start a debate. First name to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U48	Hello, colleagues! First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to you on behalf of the whole Cabinet of Ministers for your rapid and operational work and for the fact that the law “On Emergency and Exceptional Situation” has been amended and the Cabinet is now much more free to decide on the extension of the Emergency. We were already able to use this new provision of the law and determine the extension of the emergency for not more than three months, as it would have been in the old version, but for four weeks since the end of the previous emergency, i.e. until 12 May. I would like to assure you that we still balance very carefully the public health and safety aspects with the necessary limitations, so that they are not too weak or too strong, by balancing this public health aspect with a clear awareness that we must achieve a situation in which we are free from the virus, but with these restrictions, we do not, however, kill the economy irreversibly, because life will also be after the pandemic. That is why the possibility of extending this exceptional situation for a month has been used. Using mathematical calculations... Models of calculation used by inectologists and epidemiologists around the world, currently forecasts of the duck in both the number of infected and sick people show that it could be around 25 April in Latvia. But these figures (I once again stress that this is a forecast) show that, compared to other European countries, we could be in a very good situation, where both the number of infected patients and the number of patients in the hospital are to the extent that the Latvian health care system is able to provide quality care without dramatic changes in the organisation of hospital work. I would like to emphasise that some of the tasks set out in this order are already being implemented, because, as you know, the order takes effect from the moment of its adoption and the Saeima simply has to give its final acceptance. So I would like to inform you that the purchases made by the National Health Service about personal protective equipment... Information about them is available on the website of the National Health Service, with the supplier’s company names, prices and specific decryption of transport costs, if any. Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these purchases were made at a time when protective products were not actually available globally. I would like to assure you that the National Health Service was not only professional, able to organise and ensure the delivery of these purchases to medical institutions in Latvia, but that – which is still very important and perhaps not always characteristic to the public administration – also took risks and responsibilities to conclude these contracts. Because we know that in society, this debate on how high-quality protective equipment, how well-founded procurement is is extremely intense. Here, too, I very much hope for your understanding and support that we will not scare officials without need. If we paralyze the officials by keeping them constantly suspected that something is being bought wrong, divorced or something else, we can actually end up in a situation where the only choice of officials will be not to take this decision. And then the question is, what will happen to these deliveries? I would also like to confirm that even before the State Audit Office became involved, I myself have contacted both the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau and the State Audit Office and have spoken about this situation about purchases in exceptional circumstances, knowing that such full application of the Law on Public Procurement is not currently possible. Therefore, I would like to assure you that not only the Ministry of Health, but also the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Education and Science are taking a very responsible approach to the fact that funds in an emergency should be used as efficiently and transparently as possible. I would also like to inform you that the remedies purchased by the state have already been distributed to the medical institutions, including private medical institutions and family doctors who are not in a contractual relationship with the National Health Service. I would like to stress that, in this situation, the primary thing is that a medical professional is protected, not what form of business he is doing and in what relationship he is in with the country. Also 240 thousand protective masks have been issued to the Ministry of Welfare, and it will be the addressee and is already... These safeguards are also partly distributed in social care centres, where our seniors live, because protection of both employees and clients is extremely important. That would be all. If there are any questions, I will be happy to answer and thank you again for your operational work!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U49	Thank you. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U50	Hello! Thank you. Hello, colleagues! I would like to say thank you to all the services that are working in this situation, particularly at this moment of emphasising the work of social services workers and also social educators. Their role now is invaluable and very important. I would call on the government - and obviously Mrs Viņķele is currently representing the government; it can be understood after being present - to supplement or amend the government's order by changing that order... the provision relating to Saturdays 1 to 4. for class 1 by granting the right to use the national budget for all children learning 1-4. in class 1, not just the low income, the poor and the large families. It is unacceptable that in this situation, for example, where there are two children in the family and parents may also be working remotely... Parents do not currently have the opportunity to receive the country's normal holiday for their two children simply because they do not qualify for the status. In addition, the funding, which is 0.71 cents, for these children – for all! - 1-4. class 1 is due. I would also like to avoid the contradiction that exists between the government order and the letter from the Ministry of Education and Science (signed by the State Secretary as far as information is available), which, to some extent, prohibits the use of free forms of how the municipality provides these holidays. I call on the government to remedy this because it is still at least one and a half months before the end of the school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U51	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U52	Good morning, colleagues! What I would like to say is that we cannot get into statistical self-esteems about the ducks that we are expecting, or about comparisons with other countries that do not have any meaning at all. We have to do everything to reduce the negative effects that the Chinese have brought to society in the fight against this, let me say. This fight does not stop only with the constraints that are important for the government; this struggle must be seen more widely. Just as important as an open “Depo” store... Children's sports classes should also be open today, because physical activity has the most direct link with children's health and mental development. This coincides, by the way, with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. Of course, this requires work and it is important to introduce much more extensive testing. This does not happen in Latvia. Diagnosis needs to be improved and, for example, we must not prevent people from receiving medical services, but allow them, restore access to medical services for all other patients with other health problems, and these patients must also be tested accordingly. That's not what the Minister for Health is doing. The Minister for Health talks about transparent funding being spent. I am sorry, the Minister for Health should explain why 100,000 are currently spent on media agencies. Is it because to make PR shares to the Minister for Health at this time? Where are the promises about the doctor’s salaries? Doctors state that these wages are not increased. Where are these promises, Mrs. Viņķele? Maybe you have to finish this with your PR and do the things that are necessary for Latvian society? Because what's happening right now... The International Monetary Fund has already said that Latvia will have the deepest crisis from all Baltic countries. Thank you, Mrs. Viņķele. I mean, thanks to you. One more thing to say. This state of emergency is endlessly convenient for the government, because behind this state of emergency, the government can hide all its omissions and all those politically wrong decisions that have been made. Why is the OIC still not repealed? Because we're waiting for the ducks? Perhaps this is why OIC has not been revoked, that it is a current stealing campaign. And so for any positions, for face mask purchases. In public space it can be seen that the Ministry of Health buys masks more expensive than other people who are able to supply them from the same suppliers... actually from China.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U53	Thank you, speaking time's over. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U54	Hello! I thank Minister Viņķele for the report and take this opportunity to ask her a question specifically in relation to the epidemiological safeguards for persons from abroad. We know that four planes come from different foreign airports – Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Tenerife, perhaps from someone else I don't know. There are in reality hundreds of passengers arriving in Riga. It's not clear... there are not clear certain circumstances as to whether all passengers are obliged to pass on the analysis for testing. First, says that this is not a mandatory measure, so in reality passengers then go to their homes, and there is no possibility to conclude whether even on their way to their home they can't infect other persons who might have been touched by them. Secondly, there is also no information as to whether they really do not have the protective masks that are mandatory, for example, for persons visiting medical or other institutions or... In my view, it would be very important that, indeed, for these persons, all, all the measures that would prevent completely any contamination from... bring them from abroad, because much has already been done in the country. But there's no big point if it's just for these... due to these four plane passengers we will expect a new outbreak of infection. That wouldn't be wise. Much has been done, and only one wrong action can damage the results of all previous actions. I ask the ministers to answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U55	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U56	Hello, colleagues! Continuing with what Igora Pimenov said just now, I can assure you that today the private company of the organizer of at least two return flights had turned to provide personal protective equipment to all returnees. He had turned to the Ministry of Transport – a refusal. He had turned to the Ministry of Health – a refusal. The only ministry that really helps is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was contacted by the Danish Embassy by the Head of the Consular Department. This is about a Copenhagen flight, where we will have 60 citizens on board tonight, including 11 minors. The Danish Embassy will buy protective equipment for these people so that they can safely get from Riga Airport to home. That's the first. Second. The second problem is that all these people are not obliged to pass the analysis to the Covid-19 airport. It is not incorporated into our legislation. The second part of my speech will be on the holidays for schoolchildren. There is absolutely no mention of a category of children, such as children who are in need of special diets at school because of their diagnosis when they receive their holidays. For example, children with mucoviscidosis who need an increased daily calorie dose and whose parents for various reasons are not currently able to provide this increased calorie dose to children simply... Those people... those children are at an additional risk. So I invite you to think about it, because reviews – let the municipalities think about it... An example with Riga shows that Riga administrators have unfortunately forgotten and do not think at all about these children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U57	Thank you. The name of the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U58	Thank you. So – in response to Mr. Pimenova's questions. Are protective masks issued? The security masks were also issued to those arriving on a previous return flight. And to Mrs Lochmele-Lunova's comment that private operators have been refused - I will clarify this. Because, in principle, it was a deal with the airport that arrived... One... There is one sign. A man has arrived and is given a mask. That is something that I will control in addition. The second question. Do people have the opportunity to pass on the tests? Yes, the NMPD team works at the airport, and those arriving yesterday also had the opportunity to pass on the tests. Testing is compulsory for people who have any of the symptoms of a cold (we will not even use Covid-19 here), and the temperature is measured for all. It is also offered to those people who have no symptoms, pass the analysis, and part of it is also used. This is a case in which non-mptomatic patients, passenger testing, epidemiologists, rather than political opinion – and in this expert I have more confidence in epidemiologists – it is not useful because it can show a negative result with a high probability, which means... which does not mean that these symptoms cannot occur in humans after three days. I would very, very much urge us not to demonise these our compatriots who return to Latvia. We talk about them as lepers, about those who purposefully arrive in Latvia to threaten all of us. The study carried out by social anthropologists clearly confirmed the high-level picture, in which we see as a threat those others – strangers, not even members of their families, who are in fact infected statistically, if not with a higher chance. Talking about getting these people to their place of residence... Some municipalities work together successfully, and people come against them. But information about those arriving in is collected. Border guards collect it and it is then made available to the National Police and also epidemiologists. Then I will respond to my colleague's saying, which made it clear... Ethically unacceptable, even simply unacceptable, characteristics for a normal person... as a Chinese virus. Then to this colleague, who does not know why the Minister for Health wants to test people, I will say so. By way of exception, I could test you with a high probability of endangering your health. But if you have such a need, I even allow it to bring me some joy. For the rest of the people, I will say: thank God that the Minister for Health does not test, because it is clear and bright... medical highly professional manipulation that is carried out to correctly take this test. As far as the categories to be tested are concerned. They have been sufficiently expanded. Currently, tests are being carried out on patients who are admitted to treatment facilities with diagnostics that affect the immune system. So it's done for both patient safety and medical safety. Trade staff, PVD inspectors, customs officers, border guards are tested. Family doctors have the right to send patients to... on the test. We can see that last day the number of tests is 1400, which is a very respectable amount. We have come back from this fall on Easter holidays, and I would like to assure you that the test groups are being increased. Machinery to increase the capacity of the reference laboratory has also been purchased from unforeseen cases. And our goal, to which we are going, is up to three thousand tests a day, which I hope we will also be able to achieve at the end of April. I also call on Members really to make use of the opportunity to communicate with their family doctors, if necessary, and to carry out tests, but preferably in the hands of professional medical practitioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U59	Thank you to the Minister for Health. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U60	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Minister of Health started well, but again he slipped his leg, and unfortunately... on these jokes. I want to talk a little about trying to... Not about the tests that Mrs Viņķele said about recently... I just did. For those workers who work not only in different trading companies, but also, for example, in factories and larger companies where people are still forced to contact each other, even though, of course, at a distance of two metres. I believe that in this situation, so that we can maintain the viability of companies... I have heard a number of businessmen worry that individual employees are experiencing a variety of symptoms... Well, they don't have a chance... family doctors are not always very, let us say, patiently sent to the tests, because someone can think of some ordinary coughing as Covid-19 symptoms that someone can't. Consequently, I believe that the range of employers who are entitled to send their workers to analyses should also be extended, because, as we can see, if an employer wants to make sure that everything is collective, he is now paying for these analyses himself. Here, of course, I would also like to point out the analogy with the Saeima. In this case, miraculously, all Members were tested free of charge without any remuneration from each Member, and the Saeima can continue its work. Read more about the school food. By joining Mrs Ločmele-Luniv and Mrs Papule, I would also like to add that the rules contained in this decree are really absolutely apex, even though you have forgotten children with disabilities, as Mrs Ločmele-Luniv pointed out, and you have also forgotten about those learners who have been declared in another place of residence. And if, for example, someone... a large family or poor child is declared in another municipality, he does not receive any kind of assistance at all because he does not study in a particular municipality, he is declared in another. In this age, the norm must definitely be corrected, because to use this part of the law... whether, rather than imperfection, the possibility currently being given to the Ministry of Education and Science to avoid taking direct responsibility for the catering of learners simply because it is written in the law that these learners receive education on the spot (now not by their will they all get their education out of the public domain)... This situation should not be allowed in this way and...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U61	Thank you. Thank you. It's over. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U62	Mrs Viņķele, a politician without a popular mandate, please explain to the doctors why you should have spent 180 thousand on the media company MEDIJU TILTS instead of giving this money to doctors. Explain the price, the price of your so-called success story, in the context of both economic and other diseases. Finally, name how well the virus has recovered from it. And explain why purchases for facial masks or facial protective shields are more expensive than they are available on the market. Explain to the public why doctors received a five percent supplement at the salary instead of 50 percent. Explain it!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U63	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U64	Hello, colleagues! For our part, we will certainly support this draft decision and... on declaring the emergency situation, but I would like to take the opportunity to have education here... Mrs. Viņķele, Minister for Health. First of all, Mrs Viņķele, I would like to call for respect for the opposition and - now politicians do not really have arrogance - if once a colleague of the opposition says something that you perhaps do not like too much, well, to respond respectfully, rather than be ashamed of it. The other thing that I would like to touch, that is, to pay attention to more... At present, very many are focusing on structures under public administration and public administration, but less attention is paid to local government structures. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, where it was very clear that there were a number of issues that local authorities could have... which may be used by local authorities (Interdependence.) ... Yeah. Which municipalities could be... The issues that really need to be dealt with today are really crucial. I think many have spoken about facial masks here, but I would like to touch on social workers and social care centres. Let's... Well, we know this case in Riga, where the social care centre was a Covid-19 patient, and we know the way she came to that social care centre. Today I will also make proposals in other laws, but I would ask you to think about it now... In other words, there are these social care centres, group apartments and various other facilities where the seniors are taken care of, and if the elder returns from the hospital, it would be desirable to check him (it is precisely this Covid-19 analysis to make it compulsory) at the time when he comes back from the hospital to this group apartment or social care centre, in order not to put the other customers of this care centre at risk. However, it is clear that this person is really healthy, because maybe he was treated with one disease, but goes back to the center and exposes other people to the risk of this dangerous Covid-19 virus. And with regard to the availability of information – there should also be a register here, this register should be set up very quickly so that information about these Covid-19 patients can be made available to all – not only medical professionals and the staff of the Infectology Centre, but all who come in contact with these... directly in the performance of their duties, to all employees, not only to the public administration, but also to the municipality... those under the control of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U65	Thank you, thank you. It's over. Colleagues, let us work without interruption until all the items on the agenda are examined. We are continuing the debate. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U66	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I would like to turn to the Minister. If you cannot hold the stress caused by the speech of one Member, then what stress can you hold? This is a pretty nervous time for all. I think that people have the right to express their views, although they are not, as they say, compatible with your convictions or the confidence of the government, as far as they may be different, and to accept them in peace. The other thing. As a representative of the government... I have a question. We hear very loud now from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (also this morning) that it is working on... and that the camera does... draw up a plan for how we will ensure that the economy continues to live with this virus, and the story is that it is being made by an industrial chamber where it is being built to integrate the government in some way. My question is very specific. When can we expect from the government some specific vision, a concrete plan, how do we plan to implement this arrangement, specifically some time frames? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U67	Thank you. First name to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U68	Colleagues! So, in answer to Mr. Valaiņa's questions about (or think more about)... for social care centres. As I told you in my first speech, before Easter, the Ministry of Health National Health Service gave at the Ministry of Welfare more than 200,000 facial masks, which are intended for both the employees of the state social care centres and municipal social care centres. The centralized acquisition of individual protective equipment has now been transferred under the supervision of the Ministry of Defence, where the needs of municipalities are also collected, therefore the State assumes the role of this largest buyer and then provides those institutions for which it is necessary. Second. Talking about testing. There, Mr Valaiņš, perhaps you can come to the table, because municipal social care centres refuse to be tested, no matter how strange it would sound. Because two more weeks ago, when we started this screening in social care centres, voluntary applications were, well, so very gently, inactive. At the moment, we are simply informing social care centres, offering them a certain time when this testing is possible. And this morning, at our operational crisis management meeting, we said that it would obviously be necessary to amend this emergency order and to set the testing obligation. If you can, Mr. Valaiņš, act with your contacts on social centres of municipalities, I will be very grateful to you because I think it is unreasonable – to give up the test. Then Mr Schmidt's question as to whether the government is preparing such a return plan. Yeah, it's working. The Minister of Economics has taken the initiative, as well as Latvia's Investment and Development... LIAA... The agency is also working on it, our epidemiologists and Infectologists will now, according to the available information on how this virus is predicted by scientists in the world, also provide indicative criteria for... which we could then complement with this economic recovery plan. But it is already clear that we will live in a new, normal reality, where the likelihood of the virus returning cyclically is extremely high. Then two comments, not answers to questions. Mr Valaiņš' question. Really can't understand remotely whether you're using a surgical mask. If so, I would like to inform you that both the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control are very warmly recommending not to use surgical masks for non-medicants, because, in the context of a global shortage of personal protective equipment, they are, however, primarily intended for medical staff. On the other hand, Members who wish to protect their health can use uncertified masks made in Latvia. On the other hand, when talking about my stress endurance, Mr. Schmitt, it is extremely high. And I really enjoy the opportunity to also discuss with colleagues of the opposition because, unlike what I have been doing since January, where all people on earth are on the Covid-19 theme, in the Saeima, the opposition can meet people who circle in their orbit, and it is really a very pleasant exercise in this stressful time. Thank you also for the opportunity to discuss topics for which there is no direct connection with the fight against Covid-19 virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U69	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U70	Yes, hello, colleagues! First of all, thank you to the rapporteur for the report. It was prepared in such a way that it really could understand the meaning of the report more fully. What would I like to... to which I would like to point out in good time what is happening... those trends that may arise not so much from this report, but they already appear (and appear here in the debate), and I think that, as we know, the next report could be more visible. In particular, about the efforts of the power to hold a feast during the mayor. Unfortunately, this has always been the case, and it seems that Latvia will not be an exception in this case. And here I would like to point out precisely those... on the way in which power uses funds intended to combat this crisis. So how they are diverted, how they are spent, to whom they are diverted. Public information already shows a great deal. People who come with concrete facts to show that they are being accepted also turn to us... Very probably we can talk about very serious corrupt risks, about how this money is being wasted. And what's all the more worrying to me is that I've got the information that (as the information is now under way... requests to find out how then actually... on the real circumstances of these cases, on these procurements), the authority has decided to make it an active secret, i.e. to return it to the Ministry of Defence, a state secret, so that it is not possible to obtain that information. I very much hope that this is not the fact that it will not happen, that power will change its view on it, and that society will have the opportunity to follow with it, how honest, how effective and how purposefully this money is spent, what it is meant to be. For our part, in the opposition, we have been very tolerant, we have followed it, but we have not yet taken any steps. But if the power continues to do so, we will have to start to follow it actively if the power fails. That's one thing. The other thing. What I'd like to hear from the Ministry of Health... Here is the Minister for Health... As you have decided to prevent medical burnout syndrome in this time of crisis, it will certainly begin. Now, of course, you have to hang yourself at the breast medal, tell me what you're doing, but basically it's not about your actions, but about the self-free work of doctors... which you use as natives and simply shoot in the wild so that you can put medals at your breasts, but you can't take care of them. In turn, for their related entities... You have already shifted a lot of money to human bodies, which would actually be the first to get medical attention. That's the second thing. So I would like to hear about this and also about how we will ensure the health of the nation, because Covid-19 virus has not removed other diseases. How will it be ensured that people also receive the necessary medical care with other diseases? And the third thing, very briefly, at the end of...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U71	Thank you. Thank you. The speaking time is over. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U72	Hello, dear colleagues! Hello, Mrs. Viņķele! I'm really glad that you're enjoying this time here in the Saeima. Somehow it has happened that, as you say, ringing in your orbit, I have had to communicate with some doctors who are apparently also ringing in my orbit. And it's a real pity to see that these orbits don't meet anything. Let us talk about the orbit of the Ministry of Health. Likely, those true workers. You are ready to test Aldi Gobzem, although your direct obligation would be, in my opinion, also to answer the questions asked by Alda Gobzem. I will therefore try again to ask you what has now been said in the public space about the five-percent salary supplement for medical professionals who have made a gross payment of 50 cents per hour. And that is true. Documents are also available on this order issued by Mrs Cipule. And then my question would be this: Does the Ministry of Health monitor how these funds, which are specifically intended to raise medical fees, are being distributed, because, let us say, our original will as legislator was that we intended to place 20 percent of the salary on all medical professionals. Well, it wasn't a good regulation for the coalition at that time. That is why we are now reaching between 5 and 50 percent of doctors. There is a great deal of frustration, and I really want to hear, Mrs. Viņķele, your opinion – does that seem fair to you? And how does the Ministry of Health monitor this? And can you confirm or deny the information from the Ministry of Health that officials and officials have also been paid a supplement of up to 50 per cent of the salary in March and April? It's just not... It's not a pity if the government in this way, let's say, what it says... I would not like to say that we are anointing money around, but I would like to understand how honest we are with doctors in this particular case in the distribution of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U73	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U74	Yes, my fellow Members, however, I would like to clarify a few things. My... What I'm talking about social workers, I'm talking more about clients than about employees. And if there's some information about the employees, where the employees refuse these checks, then I'd have an incentive. I also contacted experts on these issues. Nobody's heard that. Then the request would be, well, send it individually and say... And I really will do everything for my part so that this does not happen, so that the municipalities listen to this particular area. But for the time being, it sounds like misleading information. Maybe some single case, but not the system as a whole. The story was more about clients. An old senior who comes out of the hospital... so the seniors of this Covid-19 infection do not invade a group in an apartment or a social care centre... At present, they are not obliged to carry out checks. This must be made compulsory.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U75	Thank you. The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U76	Yeah, thank you. I will have two questions for Mrs Viņķele as a representative of the government today. First. Please give the Government an incentive to review the amendment in question directly on 1-4. class holidays for all students, including free form and... choice for municipalities? And the other question. Does the government also intend to consider aid, an additional premium or an increase in remuneration (in the knowledge that it is a municipal budget, but nevertheless on the part of the government budget) for pre-school teachers – those working in duly designated on-call groups? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U77	Thank you. First name to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U78	Here, colleagues, for your pay. The additional premiums, the so-called crisis premiums, which are estimated to amount to around eight million in a total of three months, apply to NMPD workers and to the employees of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre... The National Health Service and those doctors in hospitals working with Covid-19 infected patients and laboratory staff working under regime 24/7 have actually been working for one and a half months, more. These allowances from the beginning, and also from then on, the redeploying of the government, were planned precisely so that they depend on the intensity of the human work and on whether they are involved in combating the epidemic, because, as we know, there are also doctors who, on the contrary, are actually working under sufficient pressure and who we also provide and care for, thinking about how they can be compensated as quickly as possible. Each institution, the head of each institution, makes a calculation because the head of the institution knows best which of its staff has worked as much extra load and under which conditions of danger. Some of these hospitals and their staff have been able to calculate the premiums in such a way that they can already add to the cost of the March salary, but this is unfortunately not the majority. And the premiums are now calculated according to the increase in every person's load, and they will be paid either with the April salary (but again depends on the choice of the head of the institution), or as a separate payment. Information about the NMPD and this will be publicly available. We have agreed that the authorities are also publicising this. There are 18 staff members who receive a lump sum for the extra load in the various regional centres. And the principle of it is specifically identified in contact with Covid-19 patients. Thus, the amount of these allowances is calculated as a percentage of the number of hours of departure that colleagues have spent directly with the Covid-19 patients. For those who have not been in contact, the 10 percent premium is calculated in Riga, for others in Latvia – five percent, but again, I emphasize – for those who have not been in contact, and for whom, as a result, their workload has not increased so much. These are data on NMPD teams. Paula Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital. I'll give you... the additional remuneration for 241 loads will therefore be paid, of which 50 per cent will be paid for 35 fines. These are the people who have really worked much more to prevent the epidemic, the other 30 percent premium. And here I would like to emphasise that the crisis and the crisis... But, in my opinion, it is the basic principle of management that a supplement for something extra depends on how much more a person has had to do this job. In response to Mrs. Liepiņa's question, will there also be bonuses at the Ministry of Health. Yes, officials of the Ministry of Health... We have a crisis team (about 15 people) that works in the way that Members are working at the time of budget adoption, so intensively, but actually from January. Yes, I believe that my fellow officials, too, have worked very hard to pay tribute to these premiums. Information on this will, of course, also be available to the public. And another comment on whether and how politicians climb or not. There is an interesting tendency here that opposition politicians are those who work and fight, and position politicians are those who appear. Well, there's obviously a question about the point of view, because from my point of view it looks quite the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U79	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U80	I would like to repeat Mrs Papule's question as to whether it is planned to include in the near future a group where... a group of employees who are eligible for a state-paid allowance at their salary, including pre-school teachers. And a similar question is about the social workers of municipalities, and it is not about the right of municipalities to forgive them, but about the state to reward them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U81	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U82	Yeah. Then the third thing I wanted... what I would like to see from the government - this is a follow-up plan after the virus crisis, how we will take advantage of this new situation that has arisen - these opportunities that have opened up to the Latvian state as a small, dynamic country, and not just continue with this gratification... Pleasure of the current situation, trying to say that it is the success story of the existing government, how well they are managed. In fact, it is the result of the “success story” of the previous Unity, when Latvia was depopulated, was poorly integrated into economic processes. Thanks to this, we are now much less likely to spread the virus here. And if this volleyball team had come not to Estonia, but to Latvia, then, of course, we could be in the tail again, as always, and look at how the rest of us are doing it much more successfully than we do. So that I would call on Latvia to be objective, and to think further about the future, about the future, how we will use this situation to really have a real success story for Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U83	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U84	Dear colleagues from the coalition, it was indeed a shame to reduce the time of the debate. You see now that we cannot be able to express all our concerns, which we also receive from other people. Mrs. Viņķele, you have released the opportunity to talk only about the matter once again. In this way, trying to undermine the work of the opposition, you objected to yourself, because at the beginning of your speech you thanked the Saeima for having promptly adopted the law on the possibility of the Cabinet of Ministers to extend this exceptional situation several times. I would like to remind you that this draft law was drawn up by the opposition in common, and that is why you are now fully in place, I will say once again, contrary to yourself. And indeed instead of coming to the Saeima and entertaining (as you say), now travelling in every way to other Members, you just really just connect to it right now... for your immediate responsibilities and speak only about them, answer our questions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U85	Thank you. First name to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U86	In response to a question from Mrs Papule and Mrs Ločmele-Lunova, I will pass on this information to the Ministry of Education and Science and ask the Minister of Education and Science also to ensure that these proposals are directed towards the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U87	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U88	The Minister did not reply as to whether amendments were planned to the Order and planned to ensure a 24-hour holiday for all 1-4. Class 1 pupils from the state budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U89	Thank you. I closed the debate. So, on behalf of the Commission, is there anything to add to this draft decision?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U90	I think we have discussed enough. There's nothing to say. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U91	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 7 April 2020 No. No 161 and 9 April 2020. Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008 on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 108, 25.4.2008, p. 1). 103 promulgating an emergency! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U92	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 7 April 2020 No. No 161 and 9 April 2020. Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008 on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 108, 25.4.2008, p. 1). 103 Promulgating the emergency situation: 86, 1 and 1 do not.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U93	Thank you. Decision adopted. Colleagues, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. Time for announcements. So I would like to inform you that the Bureau is planning to convene a second extraordinary meeting today, and at the same time I would like to add that a remote video conference of Baltic and Nordic speakers will also be launched from 12.00. If this is not the case, Mrs Dagmar Beitnere-Le Galla will chair the sitting. And commission meetings are also planned. The president of the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, Andris Skride, asks to announce that the committee meeting will begin 15 minutes after the end of the meeting remotely. Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U94	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission meeting will start at a distance in more than 10 minutes – 12.10 so that you have time to prepare your computers, your jobs, and, as we have said, two draft laws have been passed on to us. Let's do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U95	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to Arvil Asheraden, Chair of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U96	The meeting of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science is scheduled for Wednesday at 10 a.m. on the usual time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-16-PT13-2063-U97	Thank you. So at present, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science does not come to an end. Okay, colleagues. So there are two commissions coming together that will continue to work. There is another statement. Our colleague Vladimir Nikonov has celebrated a very beautiful half-round anniversary. And today's birthday is celebrated by our colleagues Andris Kazinovskis and Atis Zakaitistov. We welcome them! (Applause) Thank you. I therefore closed the extraordinary meeting on 16 April 2020.
