ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the remote session of the parliamentary extraordinary session of 18 August 2020. The agenda is the own-initiative proposal – draft decision on the Communication on the presidential elections in Belarus. Dear colleagues, Consequently, the Foreign Affairs Commission has submitted an own-initiative proposal, the draft decision on the Communication on the presidential elections in Belarus. First of all, in order to clarify whether Members have objections to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this meeting, please activate in the system the item ‘An issue relating to the course of the sitting’. Please, colleagues... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If one of the Members objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply! Members have not applied. Thus, there is no objection to Members. And let's start examining the submitted draft decision of the Saeima. Member Rihards Kols on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Today's extraordinary sitting of the Saeima has been convened so that Parliament can agree and express its formal position on what is happening in our neighbourhood in Belarus. The presidential elections in Belarus on 9 August 2020 did not meet Belarus's international commitments and internationally recognised standards of democracy and the rule of law and were neither free nor fair. A week after the last presidential elections in Minsk and other Belarusian cities, the biggest protests are taking place in Belarus's history. Hundreds of thousands of people are released to the streets to demand the resignation of the authoritarian President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko and repeated – democratic and free! - Presidential elections... the organisation of re-elections. The peaceful protests have been violently repressed by the security forces, but in spite of this, more and more people have left the streets every day. The Belarusians, despite the targeted repression, have become fearless. Through opposition, several thousands of people have been detained, hundreds injured, many companies have applied strikes, including state-run media. In the statement, we call for the presidential elections of Belarus to be held again, in accordance with the international... ensuring that internationally recognised standards, as well as all candidates, have equal rights to stand as candidates, to address the public through the media, freely, without repression, the threat of expressing their views and political conviction on equal terms. As Parliament, we remind us of the right to express our views in free elections, we remind us of one of the fundamental values of democracy: freedom of expression and freedom of assembly as fundamental human rights. Because, as we can see, the massive awakening of society is not really one of the leaders or groups of the opposition. Society demands respect for its rights, it wants to choose its own president. The actions of the Belarusian authorities violate internationally recognised human rights norms and democratic principles. We call on the Belarusian authorities to immediately cease the use of force, persecution, release all political prisoners and those who have been illegally detained in the last days, as well as to reconstruct the released political prisoners and fully restore their civil and political rights. We also call on the Latvian Government and the institutions of the European Union to provide support to Belarusian society, including financial and political support for the development of civil society and independent media. Colleagues! Some prefer to scrupulously criticise the nature, meaning and purpose of such a statement. We hear stories that it will not change anything, that it is interference in the internal affairs of others (it is, by the way, also a popular theme of the Belarusian dictator in the last week). Will the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia resolve everything with one statement, ensure democracy and free elections in Belarus? Of course not. Of course, we need to coordinate with other countries, both within the European Union and outside the European Union, as well as with international organisations and joint efforts, to exert international pressure on the Belarusian authorities, to use all the diplomatic and political instruments available to us to ensure that the desire for change expressed loudly by the Belarusian people is heard and implemented. With today's statement, we are expressing our support for the Belarusian people. Our support for Belarus' sovereignty, the well-being of its citizens and fundamental rights is constant and firm. I think we can assume it's good if it's... if the major societal problem is too much and broad support from other countries and peoples. It is much worse to feel abandoned, killed, hit, tortured by the regime. From a regime that believes that it may unpunishedly and arbitrarily exercise repression against its citizens. If we believe in democracy, justice and freedom, we must support others, especially our neighbours, who risk their lives today in order to obtain them. We must be fearless in defending these values and be with the Belarusian people, who daily show their fearlessness in the face of the tyranny. All other arguments, whether they are provoked by the regime, hockeys, cargoes or anything else, are, at best, secondary. And in conclusion, Members, of course, I am calling on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission! – to support this draft decision prepared by the Saeima. And I would like to conclude with two words, which in the last few weeks have said the least: Žive, Belarus. ( Or — May Belarus live!) I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Looking at the events of the last week in our neighboring country, Belarus, I am both terrifying and happy. Horror of Lukashenko's brutal, brutal settlement with political opponents, journalists, peaceful protestors. And it is a pleasure that his days as president have been counted and the Belarusian people have come up to finally end the USSR-style state-of-the-art. Hundreds of thousands of Belarusians went out of the streets every day for more than a week with a clear message to the world – the presidential elections were unfair and their results were falsified. As the Belarusian journalist, political analyst Frank Vjačorka said, we are witnessing not only the collapse of the dictatorial regime, but the end of the USSR, because Belarus has been many years... has remained the last country with Soviet ideology and values. Changes in Belarus are inevitable and we in Latvia must support them. Latvian society has already expressed solidarity with Belarusians on a wide picket near the Embassy, organising various support campaigns and assistance campaigns. Our country's senior officials have recognised the elections as unfair, and some have also expressed their cautious support for the organisation of new elections. We cannot always look over the shoulder while waiting for the first to tell someone who is bigger and stronger. We must remember that the world is looking at Latvia, waiting for our assessment, because we are yet close neighbours of Belarus, we have close political and economic relations. It is high time the Saeima said its name and did it clearly and unequivocally. The presidential elections in Belarus were not free and fair, they should be re-arranged in accordance with internationally accepted standards, enabling all candidates to participate on equal terms and with the presence of international observers. The inclusion of this position in the Saeima statement was supported yesterday by the Foreign Affairs Commission. In the Commission, we supplemented the original text of the Communication with references to international human rights documents on the role of civil society and independent media, as well as mandates for the government to support sanctions with other Member States of the European Union and to provide direct assistance also through non-governmental organisations. Thank you very much to my colleagues in the Commission for supporting the Development/Par! Group. proposals. I thank lawyers and diplomats for their support in clarifying and improving the wording. The final sentence of the communication confirms consistent support for Belarus' sovereignty, citizens' well-being and fundamental rights. In other words, it makes it clear that the purpose of the Saeima communication is not to show what our neighbours should do, but to support the Belarusian people's express desire to choose their leader in a free and democratic process. That should be the middle of Europe in the 21st century. Dear colleagues, I call on all of you to support our joint statement on Belarus. Ring, Belarus! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U5	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U6	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues! Without the fight, there is no victory, and I really very much hope that the efforts of the Belarusian people to strengthen the country's rule of law and democracy will be crowned with success, and there will be no in vain a humiliation of the blows that we see in the last days. And also the blood of things... The way in which the Belarusian people are fighting is especially touching. Not violent, not with grunts, but with soot and inner conviction. We must provide clear support at this critical time to the Belarusian people's demands to end violence against the population and to organise repeated, fair, international standards! - Elections. And such support is also this announcement by the Saeima. Colleagues, can you understand the cautious situation? Yes, Belarus is the sixteenth largest trading partner in Latvia, an important export market for the food industry and other sectors. Prior to the declaration by the Minister of Transport that transit is not a priority, expectations were also linked to the development of the ‘Middle Road’ direction in Belarus-China. However, colleagues, there are moments when a cocktail has no place and it must be clearly understood that two chairs will not be able to sit. And short-term economic interests cannot be more important than geopolitical stability; in this case, it cannot be more important than respect for human rights and giving opportunities – to strengthen and establish a democratic system of the state in a neighbouring country, so that there, as the opposition representatives themselves emphasize, human life has value. In the context of Ukraine, we have already demonstrated this, yes, and therefore also suffered from economic sanctions. This is a similar case. What you have to understand, colleagues – that even if Lukashenko's situation is miraculously adjusted, it is already evident that it is already... It won't be like it was before. But at the same time, it must also be taken into account that the fight will be a long one, because it is a complete change... change of regime in a country where the leader has no way out and he has already declared that he will do all he can to remain in office. It is also a country where civil society structures need to be redesigned in practice, and we also need to be active, stable supporters in the longer term, not only with bright, short-term political statements or short-term protests. And we have to be... If... ( A sound defect.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U7	Mrs. Ozola, we can't hear you. We can't hear you more right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U8	... Maybe it's better.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U9	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U10	Yeah, thank you. We have to prepare for two scenarios, as I said. If the Belarusian people are not able to break the Gordy's knot at the moment and this will be drawn closer for some time, it may be necessary to provide political asylum to the political refugees persecuted by the regime. Information support is essential. In a situation in which the freedom of local journalists is restricted, internet is disabled, regular and objective dissemination of information is worth gold. And the second scenario. If the Belarusian people achieves themselves and there is a change of power, it will also not be an easy way to do so, because the structure of a democratic state will actually have to be redesigned and the principles of a market economy will start working in the country. And there can also be good advisors here, allowing them to learn from their bitter experience of not allowing foreigners to sell land, privatize and destroy state-owned companies. This is, of course, a clear argument, and the existing dread of power is also against change... Says: “Democracy will come hand in hand with the mantra of capitalism.” Colleagues, we need to use the platforms we have in providing support. The Council of Foreign Ministers and Prime Ministers of the European Union, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and others where we are, where we have representation, where we have our voice and where we cannot steal... allow theft to be ripped up on the issue of Belarus. We need to take some initiative at the highest political level, both by making proposals for sanctions, if necessary, if we see that they can be effective, both financial support, information support, technical support, and also... the necessary involvement of the international community in the promotion of dialogue. I propose, colleagues, to the Saeima to set up a group of support from the Belarusian People's Members to follow developments regularly at parliamentary level, and I also encourage colleagues from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to implement such an initiative involving representatives of all – including the opposition and independent Members – representatives of the Belarusian people in order to give them... would give a signal of full support to the entire Latvian Parliament and we would expect regular reports from the Foreign Minister on the current situation and also on the progress made in the Belarus context. Thank you for this communication's initiative for the Foreign Affairs Commission. For my part, too, I call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U11	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U12	Good afternoon, everybody! WELFARE has already expressed its support for Belarusian civil society. We believe that the presidential elections in Belarus have not taken place in a fair and democratic way, that the opposition leaders have been persecuted and repressed, so that the outcome of the elections cannot give rise to a legitimate power. We believe that at the moment all democratic forces must show solidarity with the Belarusian people, and Latvian society can learn a lot from Belarus how to stand for its own interests. Oh, yeah... Only such a nuance that the people of Latvia have been denied the right to elect their President of Latvia. Several times the Saeima has tried to find such an opportunity for the people of Latvia, but with the votes of the power parties these attempts were demolished. It was formally justified that such an idea should continue to work, but we remember what was said in the culuars. If the people are allowed to elect a president, who can come there? There's nothing to choose from. They even called on potential candidates. After the Saeima was elected in open elections to the Saeima, coalition parties had an opportunity to control the votes of Members, i.e. make the Saeima their voting machine also on this issue, all efforts for the elected president of the people were buried and... hasn't come back now. So weird it's happening. In Belarus, the people can elect their president, in Lithuania – they can, but in democratic Latvia, which condemns the actions of the Belarusian authorities, the people cannot even elect their own president. And why can't you? Because the people will not choose it. It's not what a clown of power thinks is right. Who are you better than what you condemn today? Have you oppressed your people more skillfully than Lukashenko? You also tried to help suppress your people. Was that not the time of Karina's government when our public services provided Lukashenko with information that helped Lukashenko to count on the opposition leader? That was not enough, however. You know, when Karin met Lukashenko, he should have been given a form of hockey instead of a hockey... shape a shirt, but Latvian Constitutions. If Lukashenko were to have the same regulation in the Belarusian constitution as the Latvian nation, then he would not have any problem becoming re-elected today, a clique of power would obediently elect the right president. That is what happens to us. You probably don't understand what kind of model of hypocrisy you've set up today. And very valuable reflections for the Latvian people. If Latvian civil society were prepared to defend its interests, the rule of law and democracy as actively as possible, it would not be possible for such a pitiful and illegal situation as it is with medical staff's salaries, the OIC sphere would have been discontinued for a long time, and the power could not continue to live comfortably at the expense of the most vulnerable people. In essence, the same monopoly of power has been created in Latvia as in authoritative countries. The centre of power is not just one strong person, as is in the case of classical authoritarianism, but in the case of Latvia it is intervened in a band of useful poor and smart apherists, who, with each other's divisiveness, create an illusion of democracy among the people. The copper clique and its servicing infrastructure have built and strengthened this illusion quite skillfully so that they can live in it in a comfortable way. One of these instruments is to prevent the people from electing their president, but to leave it to their own discretion – to choose the right one, not the nation, so that the president will then open this opportunity for him, especially if he wants to be re-elected, for example, does not use the legislative options given to him by the elections to power. A practical example. Democracy as a meaningful form of public administration is not possible without effective power and opposition rivalry. It's an axiom. Unfortunately, in Latvia, the clique of power has created for itself a regulation that prevents almost any parliamentary opportunity for the opposition to hold such a competition. An example is the parliamentary investigation, which is a powerful instrument in democratic countries, but in Latvia it is a laughter, pointless spending of taxpayers' money and a sighing of the Constitution of Latvia. Although such a parliamentary monitoring instrument is provided for in the Constitution, the further legislation governing it is designed to make it practically pointless. Yes, the opposition can exercise its right under the Constitution to initiate such a parliamentary investigation, but further legislation ensures that the coalition of power will be the one that will determine who and how it will be investigated, making this instrument completely pointless and discrediting the substance of the parliamentary investigation. Similar is the case with other instruments of parliamentary scrutiny - Members' questions or requests - where total disregard is allowed, even if they do not allow the substance to be examined. They shall be put to the vote as unfounded. The opposition of the Saeima has repeatedly taken the initiative to change this situation. Such a order of things gives power in Latvia to translate into its permissiveness and irresponsibility, because power can do anything. Especially in an emergency situation, when all the usual mechanisms for monitoring power – media, non-governmental institutions and so on – are reinforced depending on the favour of power, the decisions taken by it. This has a major impact on their functioning, and we can see that. Thus, parliamentary control plays a crucial role in such a situation, because only it is ready to proceed objectively to the miracles of power. And we can really see all kinds of miracles created by power in such situations – as in many million tenders for individual masks are won by an advertising agency, as its goods are accepted with documents that are not available, or simply forgery. Therefore, the opposition of the Saeima addressed our President of State with an invitation to come with an appropriate legislative initiative to make operational this instrument of parliamentary scrutiny provided for in the Constitution, to allow an assessment of the work carried out by the power, but the President declares that he is ready if the coalition of power agrees. Would this be the case with a nation-elected president, who should not take care of the favour of the coalition of power to be voted upon, to justify his loyalty? No, no. Today, when you are with the people of Belarus, I hope that you will be with the people of Latvia if the people of Latvia turn to you with such an initiative as the elected president of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U13	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U14	Good morning! Thank you. Currently, many politicians of Latvia's ruling coalition are using the situation in Belarus to draw public attention. At the same time, real political and cooperation makers with Belarus – Minister of Transport Linait, Minister of Foreign Affairs Rinkēvičs and Prime Minister Kariņš – are taking a quiet stand not to unduly disturb society, do not oppose the stream of public opinion, but at the same time they would not have a public conflict with Lukashenko, with whom it is supposed to talk about extensive economic cooperation or with the Trump administration. I would like to say that if you, the ruling coalition, not only defend, but also stand precisely against the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in other countries, do you defend your actions and fight for these same principles in Latvia? This is not a question of opposition or position. At the moment, Belarus's question is about the principles of democracy and the rule of law and their defence in Latvia. There's a question here – where were you half a year ago, two months ago, a month ago, when the active preparations for the presidential elections started in Belarus? Will statements by Latvian officials about sanctions against Belarusian officials change something now, after the elections? Nothing. For the victors, whatever they may be, don't judge. By the way, it is significant that the Prime Minister of Latvia Kariņš is travelling to Lukashenko, not the other way round. Therefore, Latvian statements are pointless in substance. The same is true for Belarusian money in Latvian banks – both money belonging to Lukashenko's opponents and money related to Lukashenko and his court. It is only significant that the Latvian Government, more specifically the Financial Intelligence Service, blocks the funds of the opposition, thus substantially reducing the opportunities of opposition candidates to form a pre-election campaign. Whatever information was available to Latvian services and what activities required Latvian services to carry out the law, taking into account the background of pre-election, Latvian services had to check the reliability of such information and transfer their activities to the post-election period. It should be recalled that the elections began immediately after the elected person took office. The elections began immediately after the elections. Then why do you, who now, in social networks following fashion, put pictures of your profiles under the flag of Belarus, not objecting to the actions of Latvian services, which actually influenced or made impossible free and democratic elections in Belarus? Politicians, primarily Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs and Prime Minister Kariņš, provided a political background to cover the actual arbitrariness of Latvian services. I will ask the Minister for the Interior, Mr Ģirgens, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Rinkēvičs and Prime Minister Kariņš – did you have information that Latvian services and their actions can influence the results of the elections in Belarus? Maybe you gave oral instructions? At present, the EU institutions would be obliged to investigate very seriously whether the actions of the Latvian institutions have been lawful and whether the principles of the rule of law have been respected. As it cannot be ruled out that this action was motivated by information specially selected and possibly falsified by Belarus' special service, the Chief Financial Intelligence Service Znotiņš. And finally, if the policy question is about who it is useful, I wonder if the foreign policy of the Latvian Foreign Minister, the Minister of Transport and the Prime Minister, in fact serving Lukashenko's regime, has already benefited Latvia? Real economic benefits? Doubt. Rather, real reputational problems that are more real than the artificial myth of the coalition about the financial sector as a Latvian problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U15	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U16	Yes, honourable colleagues! I would also like to join probably rhetorical questions from my colleague Lubova Švekova now – where have you been before? We can read on the OSCE website that OSCE observers are very... Well, in his statement, they announced that they would not take part in the election observation, because the invitation was too late. It has not been possible to find hotels, interview locals and so on. I did not notice Latvia's indignation in this case in mid-July, where someone would have said that we have no opportunity to participate and observe, and to respond in a timely manner to the fact that some irregularities are likely to occur. What we are seeing right now is Latvia a priori assumes that violations have taken place. That's one. Second. Of course, I would also like to talk about what we might wish in principle and what we could... how we could help the Belarusian people. Here we look at what we have. We could wish the Belarusian people strong leaders who could help the people to flourish and the whole country to become much, much better, but we unfortunately do not have such leaders, at least we do not see them in power. So we cannot do that. We could wish the Belarusian people politicians who really care about what is happening in Latvia, who cannot go to sleep quietly, thinking every night about how to help people not to be laid out of their homes, how to help people cure serious diseases. But we don't have such politicians in power. We have nothing. What do we have? We have advice... We have advice, and we can teach. We can teach the Belarusian people how to waste the country, as some colleagues have said here. We could teach the Belarusian people how to lose independence, how to bow to the International Monetary Fund, put their backs in front of them and drive their compatriots out of their homes, following the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund 10 years ago, by introducing real estate tax on housing. We could also teach the Belarusian people how to laugh at the opposition in Latvia, completely denying several opportunities for the opposition to participate in the Saeima's work and engaging with the remote Saeima sitting. We could also, just as Mr Zarina said, teach the Belarusian people how to elect a president. And we could teach the Belarusian people how we could ensure that people who do not participate at all in elections or who are expelled from the elections get into power all the time, and they fall back into poverty. We could do all this. We could also teach the Belarusian people the duality, because what we are seeing today is a model of duality. Of course, it still has a very great influence on the local elections, each with its own green map will come and show how much he is very concerned about the Belarusian people. Indeed, we could teach them how to not hear their people and how to hear a foreign nation. For you, fellow Members, know so well what the Belarusian people need, how she should live, how she has lived up to now, you understand everything very well, but you do not hear your people. Because you need a decision of the Constitutional Court in order to... lighten your eyes so that you finally realize that the guaranteed minimum income is not worthy of human life... human levels. You need a decision of the Constitutional Court to show you at last that medical practitioners should not lie. You need probably unseen constitutional decisions to teach you to hear your people, but you know what others have to do. It's a duality. And the duality is that you think Lukashenko was a very different person a year ago than it was today. Because a year ago, speaking and planning things with Lukashenko, you knew there would be presidential elections. There is some cyclicality in the presidential elections, it does not come suddenly like a thunderstorm. You knew he would stand and maybe be elected. If he is in power for so long, why didn’t you, Mr. Karin, say: “Lukashenko, we will not work with you anymore! You are too long, you are tired of people, and the hockey championship we will plan with a new leader, democratic leaders.” Well, it wasn't. So you agreed with everything that happened a year ago, and now suddenly at one point you are starting to play democracy and you are starting to pretend that you are really very concerned about what is happening in the neighbourhood. Twofold – this is what you can teach the Belarusian people, because they probably haven't seen it so far. What I can really agree with in this communication is probably the last point. That is the last point in which we wish the Belarusian people all the best. But I would add one more point. Of course, as an independent Member, I was not even offered to submit my proposals, but it is normal, it is okay. I would like to propose the last point in which we would call on the Belarusian people to support the people of Latvia in the same way when the people of Latvia once again have elected the same Gentiles, only with other hairstyles, when the people of Latvia have elected the same ones again, who will promise to cheat, but no one will help us. And that's why we may have hope that we will have allies who may come and distribute some statements or get out of the streets and support the people of Latvia. But only, you see, the difference is that there are no more factories in Latvia, whose workers could submit a strike. There is more in Belarus. That is why I would like to wish the Belarusian people to be very critical, listening to all the advisers who will now fall into bars, because Belarus is a very delicious country for many. So I could really wish to listen – listen carefully! – your heart and don't listen to those who don't think about democracy, about the welfare of the people, who just want to catch the most delicious couch. I will not participate in this farce, honourable colleagues. I'm not gonna be a screw in this revolution architecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U17	The name to Member Karin Scratch. Mrs Strove, we do not see you, nor do we hear you. I call for technical problems to be eliminated and for the debate to be re-opened. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U18	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Colleagues! In the 21st century, no human deserves to be tortured and tortured for his thoughts or ideas. In the 21st century, no one should be punished for their political choices, but unfortunately that is exactly what we see right here in our neighbours, Belarus, about 300 kilometres from the Saeima House. Since the 9 August presidential elections in Belarus, I look terrifyingly at people's records on social networks, video recordings on social networks from various Belarusian cities, where the "right" result is being introduced, but at the same time, looking at the activity and perseverance of the Belarusian people, there is also a great sense of hope. Hundreds of thousands of Belarusians are peacefully protesting and demanding change, demanding respect for fair elections and people's choice. I was born in an independent Latvia. I am very grateful for this to all those who fought for it, including my father, who took part in barricades without fear and guarded the television tower in Zaķusala. It is clear to me that the unity of the people is capable of achieving very, very much. Free expression of opinions and ideas, freedom of assembly, open and free elections are the cornerstones of true democracy that we can enjoy in Latvia thanks to this unity and power of the people. No one can doubt that the elections in Belarus were free and fair. This has been pointed out by both international organisations and by the majority of democratic countries. The regime's violence against its people cannot be acceptable to us, and our voice as the Saeima must be direct and clear. It is necessary to hold repeated elections in Belarus in accordance with established international standards. They must be free, fair, open and, of course, fair. So I'd like to thank you... Thank you very much to the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima and also to all those involved who helped make this statement, and it is clear that this is only the first step in how we can support the Belarusian people. I call on colleagues to support this statement, and we really need to support the Belarusian people in this fight for their rights. May Belarus live! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U19	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U20	Dear colleagues, The elections held in Belarus have not been fair. Too many evidence suggests that a different conclusion can be drawn. This is also reflected in the decision of many hundreds of thousands of Belarusians to go to the streets, despite all the repression and violence from the home system, risking their health and even their lives. And so on the territory of Belarus. The violence and repression that Belarus's existing power has directed against protestors, and not only against those who chose to protest, but even against the people who had passed away – that is, colleagues, is unacceptable to anyone with a whole moral. In view of what is happening in our neighbourhood, we have a moral duty to express our views, to express our position on what is happening, both on the conduct of elections, on repression and on violence, and on violations of human rights. But we must also remember that the final decision on the future must be made precisely by the Belarusian people, and the only way in which they can make such a decision is through fair elections. Elections that would take place without other countries... without direct or indirect intervention by other countries. Dear colleagues, Among us are those who are truly Belarusians, those who want the Belarusians to choose their own country's future, but among us are those who perceive the Belarusians as no more than an instrument and who want to use the people of our neighbouring country as a weapon in their ingenious sacred war between the West and the East. Of course, they are, and they will be, Belarusians, but in works we will see something quite different. Those were the same colleagues who, at the beginning of all these processes, were so reluctant to comment on what was happening in Belarus at the time, because they considered that the Belarusian opposition was not sufficiently nationalistic, not enough towards Russia. And there are many such people, colleagues, both in the government and in the Saeima. These people... Even if some... Even if some of them are guided by the best intentions, and even if some of them, the maximum that can be criticised is a huge naivety, they can cause considerable damage not only to the Belarusian people, but also to the peace and security of our entire region. And I believe that if you really care about the welfare and freedom of Belarus, it is extremely important to refrain from any attempt to intervene directly in the ongoing processes. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the Foreign Affairs Commission for this balanced and timely statement. I am generally ready to sign under it – with one exception. Except for one point. This point is seemingly innocently formulated as an invitation to the government to provide financial support to civil society and the media, but I do not trust that our government will be able to refrain from its geopolitical games and that they will try to support one of the specific parties in the political struggle in Belarus, thus interfering in Belarus's internal policies. I am very sorry that such a point has been included in this whole, as I have already said, in the very balanced communication. Unfortunately, it is not possible to vote in favour of this statement without this paragraph, because, as a whole, I will support it, but in this way I am expressing my different views on this particular point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U21	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U22	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, It is really only natural and self-evident that here, at the Saeima House, on Jēka iela, where 30 years ago members of the Supreme Council supported the efforts of the people and voted in favour of the restoration of independence of the Republic of Latvia, we decide in the parliamentary debate here during the week in which we celebrate the anniversary of the Baltic Way on how to support the Belarusian people in their efforts. A similar statement will be adopted today by the Lithuanian Parliaments. It is right now that there is a debate. The Foreign Affairs Commission of the Estonian Parliament, too, is today working on their statement, which will be the result of the parliamentary debate. And throughout the previous week, the Member State of Latvia as a number of important international organisations, including international human rights organisations, has participated in providing support to Belarus. The Baltic Foreign Ministers and the Polish Foreign Minister were those who encouraged the European Union Foreign Affairs Council to decide on support for the Belarusian people and condemn what is happening in relation to the Lukashenko regime. The Presidents of the Baltic States and the Prime Ministers of the Baltic States have come with a joint statement. As my colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has already mentioned, the work of the Latvian delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is also one of the ways in which we can support Belarus. Although Belarus enjoyed special guest status in the Council of Europe for a very short period from 1993 to 1996, it is not a Member State. In view of the efforts made by Lukashenko to take the Presidency in an undemocratic and human rights restrictive manner, Belarus lost its status as a special guest in 1996. Our delegation unanimously supported the Ukraine-led statement; we, as a member of the Baltic Plus Group, signed this statement with Lithuanians, Estonians, Ukrainians, and also Britain joined us. And in this communication, we put such an internal point of great importance to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is that we warned the Russian Federation not to interfere in the internal affairs of Belarus (knowing the backstage of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe). That's all I tell you... This statement is available on the Saeima's website in Latvian translation. There are different ways in which we can support the Belarusian people. And it's really our duty – to operate these different ways in intelligent time and space. And we can each of them wherever we are and whatever allies we have at the moment; we can tell about our experience, we can tell about the efforts of the Latvian people and the fact that every child in our neighbourhood in Belarus, every old man deserves to live in a democratic country. And maybe it is quite emotionally that I would like to conclude with the words of perhaps the largest European democrat, the President of the Constitutional Meeting, Janis Čakste, the first President of the Republic of Latvia: “The ability to be hypocritical is the privilege of the big countries, the small countries must be honest.” This has been said by Jānis Čakste, and it is laid at the heart of our democracy! We must be honest and we must stand up for democracy. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U23	The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U24	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! When I watch video and photos of eyewitnesses on social networks, it takes a hypnoic sense of horror about the inhumanity of the Belarusian authorities and its repressive institutions against their citizens. The fact that this is happening and that it is not fiction. The fact that this is happening right beyond the borders of our country. The Belarusian people have presented the authoritarian regime “Stop!” . It is still very courageous, with fear aside, humiliation, and brutal violence, showing the whole world the desire for change in their own land. In previous years, certain bright personalities have spoken publicly about restrictions on the freedom of human rights and expression, but this time it is done by the masses of society. Thousands of Belarusians in different cities of the country are passing through peaceful demonstrations on the streets. I would like to emphasise that the desire of the people this time is a great hope for all those artists, journalists and human rights activists who, because of their actions and beliefs, have suffered from the authoritarian regime implemented by Lukashenko. Let me give you a few examples. Belarusian writer and journalist Svetlana Aleksijeviča received the world's most prestigious Nobel Prize five years ago. The Swedish Royal Academy of Sciences identifies her style as a monument to modern suffering and courage. The writer often criticises the existing facility in Belarus and has called on the President to allow expression of creative freedom and to look towards Europe. After receiving the Nobel Prize, when Aleksijevich received worldwide attention, the official officials of Belarus ignored this fact without even mentioning it. The works of the Belarusian writer, translated into different languages of the world, including Latvian, are not published in her home country, where the baskets of power are held by the authoritarian president. And Aleksievich is not the only such case. In Belarus, almost all international human rights organisations have devoted separate chapters and paragraphs in their annual reports to censorship and restrictions on freedom of expression. International attention was also paid to the case two years ago, when three theatre students were arrested for a public share of art against homophobia. A number of art exhibitions have been censored at the last moment, making it difficult for an artist to disclose his exhibition publicly. The closure of informal cultural centres created by private and non-governmental organisations in Belarus is not an extraordinary one. For almost 10 years, there has been a so-called black list of musicians of different genres, presented to both concert organizers and private radio stations, so that it is clear which artists should not be released on stage and which works should not be broadcast by radio. In recent days, the Belarusian people themselves have said “Stop it!” . More than 30 years ago, it was very important for us in Latvia that the democratic part of the world appreciated and supported our efforts for freedom. At the moment, we can be the shoulder of support for all those people in our neighbourhood who have said "Stop!" totalitarian, brutal and human rights restrictive power. I therefore call on you to support the announcement by the Saeima on the presidential elections in Belarus and to support our neighbours, the Belarusian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U25	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U26	Good morning, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, before speaking about the elections in Belarus and the situation in that country, I want to understand whether this draft decision is legally or politically justified. All the unrest began after the announcement of the results of the elections, followed by a series of events. All the unrest began... The results of the elections as such are no proof that the elections were unfair. Following this logic, the Russian elections were also falsified. Why did we not convene an emergency sitting? Results also differed radically between embassies and between Russia. Colleagues, you – and especially you, the ruling coalition – have stressed that freedom of expression and assembly is a fundamental human right. Then why do you deprive your people of this right, and fight for a foreign land and its people? Perhaps because this draft decision is political? I'm against violence, I'm against censorship. I am in favour of recognising and correcting our mistakes. Belarus was one of the rare countries that refused to be isolated from the surrounding world, which did not bring their people into mass psychoses. All sports and cultural events continued to take place, and also factories and restaurants could continue to work in their daily routine. There was a dialogue in society, but no one prevented people from going out there and making them distance from one another, as we do. What happened after the elections? Where did this first drop of blood fall? What is the provocator, and what is the purpose of all this? We cannot know that. Do you really think that without this draft decision, the Belarusian people will think that we are in favour of violence? As nations support each other, governments do not do so and cannot do it. Even if the whole of Europe is isolated from Belarus, the country will continue to exist. Over the last six months, Belarus has shown this by remaining in one pandemic. Belarus also reborn after the Second World War, although it was particularly severely affected and, in principle, levelled off to the ground. It was born of ruins. What do we see now? The factories are working, the urban infrastructure is being built again. There is low unemployment, free medicine, high quality education. For Belarusians, this is what we are losing more and more. And most importantly, who sits in a huge external debt pit? However, we insult others to make ourselves feel better than we are! I am addressing the coalition. If you really regard yourself as judges and as examples of democracy, please do not forget ours before you point out Belarus's problems. Do not forget about Latvian people, Latvian doctors, Latvian teachers! Because our time will also come when the people of Latvia will be tired of the waste of money for a new prison, concert hall and other dubious corruption-enriched transactions, will be overshadowed by the lack of empty ports and production. Aware that there are people in the government without a people’s mandate. Aware that a person who was not at all able to vote was becoming a prime minister. Let us remember, then, that we are internationally recognized standards of democracy and the rule of law, free and independent Belarus, free and independent Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U27	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U28	Hello, Inara Mūrniece! Hello, colleagues! Hello, Latvian society! I want to talk about Belarus. And I want to start by telling you how much I like the Belarusian people. I like its Europeanism, I like its courage. If we look at the actions of the Belarusian people, that is inconceivable! It is so beautiful – without the robbery of shops, without destruction, in fact without violence defending, peacefully... They do this with such pride and respect and – by collecting the waste behind them. And finally – with courage also against Covid-19. And that's the big difference from Latvia, where even Members of the Saeima are so young: they can't come together in the parliament to express their support for Belarus, at a time when people in Belarus, hundreds of thousands, are in the streets, risking their lives and not thinking about Covid-19. I very much like what the Belarusian people are doing. And it is absolutely clear that the time has come for the regime to change. However, what I want to stress is the fact that Latvia is certainly not the country that can teach democracy to Belarus. Latvia is a country in which no popular voice has been returned for the President of Latvia. There is a Prime Minister in Latvia for whom no popular vote has been cast. Moreover, it is a person from an organisation for whom only six percent of the people's votes have been returned – the least of all the political forces that have entered Parliament. And that's not anywhere else in the world. And this country will teach democracy?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would recommend that this democracy be taught in such a way as to send the people's unelected Karina to Belarus, so that he introduces the OIC there or takes any other action. And then we'll see how noble and fantastic Belarusians will be able to defend themselves again. I call on all Latvian society to take an example from the Belarusians and to look at what can be done by merging, peacefully leaving the streets and demanding democracy. And this democracy is possible even at a time when you have a violent opponent. We can also do this here, in Latvia, dear Latvian society! Learn from the Belarusians their courage, their decency, their Europeanness, their freedom of mind. This is how we miss today here in Latvia. And what I would wish the Latvian Foreign Service – not to do just empty statements (and that will be the same) but to get to work. And to get to work means to do a number of things if we want foreign policy... And not the last one again... but maybe done by nature. And the essence is the following. Latvia does not recognise the result of the presidential elections in Belarus. Latvia expects that power is transferred to an institution that ensures an objective and democratic election process in Belarus. Latvia announces publicly that it is ready to accept – in accordance with existing legislation – anyone who feels threatened in Belarus in the event of a change of political regime. Latvia freezes the funds and assets received criminally to the President of Belarus and its entire Cabinet of Ministers (and this can be done very easily – with one email from the Financial and Capital Market Commission and from the Financial Intelligence Service... with a budget of 10 million, sending one email, and this would happen today). In Latvia's interest and in the interests of the people of Latvia, it is essential that the Baltics should be the point that contributes to reducing... As few Belarusians as possible would suffer. We must be open to any solutions that avoid violence. We must help not to escalate and abscalate but to deescalate, we must try to convince the existing administration in Belarus to promote a non-violent change of power. It is clear that the Belarusian people are waiting for change, and it is clear that there will be change, and we need to show clearly and clearly that we want to support it and take action without bloodshed. We want people to have hope for the future, and that is what we should say, but we should not do the preaching of democracy today – at a time when our President of Latvia tells us that not to comply with the law on medical doctors is in compliance with the Constitution. President, for whom no vote has been cast by the people. I think we do not need to teach democracy today; we do not have such a democracy in Parliament, where even all Members do not have equal rights. And we do not need to teach democracy or courage if we, as a hundred people, are unable to come together at a time when just a hundred kilometres from Riga are countless times more courageous than any of us, Mrs. Mūrniece including in this country, called Latvia. And I don't want us to take action today that once again we're after something, because we haven't had our own real foreign policy, we've always looked at what foreign policy is somewhere else, and then we've tried to join one position or another, depending on how the situation happens. I think we must take a strong stand and say: we do not have democracy ourselves, but we see that democracy is the path that the Belarusian people want, and we see it in this way... How can we support... About what I said earlier... I call on our Parliament to stop dealing with phrases, which are also spoken of by the Members of the Parliamentary Presidium, Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, quoting Janis Čaksti and saying that small countries must be honest. Then let's tell the truth – there is no honesty in our country! There is no rule of law in our country! And there is no democracy in our country! Because in no democracy in the world is the country governed and governed by a political cartel for which people have not voted, which people do not love and which people do not support. That is what should be said honestly in such a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U29	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U30	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to thank all Members who have spoken so far, who have expressed their very clear support for the people of Belarus, its aspirations – its desire for freedom, its desire for free elections. On my side, a couple of remarks about maybe another politician who has spoken... perhaps not for accusations, but for clarifications. And I'll start with Mr. Zarins. Mr. Zarins, while living in Latvia, should probably be aware that the doctrine of continuity of independence is still valid for us, and we are a parliamentary republic, not a presidential one. And therefore, comparisons relating to the electoral procedure in Belarus would really be out of place. As regards the presidential elections, however, there is a step forward – transparency, openness. For the first time, we elected the President in open elections, not in closed elections, where, as you have already said, a diagram, drawing... and what they haven't done yet. But it is clear that this is not about the draft communication of the Saeima by the Foreign Affairs Commission. The statement itself. In the text, as Vyacheslav Dombrovskis pointed out... I respect your reasoning, thank you also for your willingness to support this statement, but... with this clarification of the individual opinion... on the specific paragraph on financial and political responsibility... I don't know why the impression is that if Latvia financially supports civil society, that means some kind of... Well, interference in Belarus's home affairs... and provoke something. In my view, this financial and political support for civil society is on issues such as the provision of legal aid... We can see that a number of administrative cases and criminal cases are being initiated, as dictator Lukashenko is still in power. And in these days, its persecution continues – both today and, I allow, tomorrow will continue – and respectively, those detained - who are illegal should be given assistance, if possible, in the context of legal assistance. As well as the treatment... not in the field of services, but in the field of medical treatment. The same rehabilitation issues... We're getting information about the horrendous promiscuities in detention isolates, in prisons... reports cases already... cases of rape. These are serious psychological injuries to the Belarusian people, individuals and citizens. I think we can give... and that we have both knowledgeable people and a strong civil society that can help the Belarusian people at this difficult time. It does not exclude that we can support its efforts financially. Regarding their transparency, that is, where it will go, how the Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission can tell us that we will definitely follow the use of this funding in the Commission - what objectives... and what are the expected results. And there was also the accusation that we could intervene again... I think that Latvia has consistently done this up to now. We can look back on the example of Ukraine. We also provided assistance there, both financial and political, without any interference in any political... internal policy processes. And more. Finally, I would like to express my great thanks to our civil society, which in these days, since 9 August, has indeed demonstrated the ability to define clearly and lightly the support of the Belarusian people by initiating various projects. In this context, I would invite not only the members of the Saeima, but also the entire Latvian society to refer to the call of civil society and therefore non-governmental organisations – on 23 August, therefore, on the day of the Baltic Way – to join this living chain, which is also organised in Lithuania. Because only by coordinating together and being on the same wave, we can achieve it... We have clearly demonstrated this more than 30 years ago. Finally, on the previous speaker, Mr Gobzem, who called this statement empty and without saying anything and made rather pragmatic proposals on what should be done. I have read most of the proposals made by Mr Gobzema, which have in fact already been incorporated into the draft communication from the Saeima. If there is a question, let's accept it – recognize the elections as unlegitimate... I think it is clear that the Saeima's call for re-elections means exactly that too. It would be ridiculous that we recognise the elections as legitimate, but at the same time we call for re-elections. But in general, colleagues, thank you very much to all those who have expressed their support for both the Belarusian people and this draft parliamentary statement. And, as some colleagues have already said, with this statement, I think that Parliament's involvement will certainly not stop. Of course, let us follow events and, if necessary, take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U31	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U32	Dear Members of the Saeima! Of course, these events in Belarus are at the heart of the world... and for each of us here in Latvia... All this reminds me of the events of 30 years ago: when we fought here in Latvia for the restoration of independence, it was very important for other nations, other countries for us. I think the same thing is felt now by the Belarusian people, and it looks forward to what the Latvians will say. Waits for a statement, what an assessment of Belarusian actions will be made from Latvians. I think that this statement, however, is in place and must be adopted. But... I would like to remind you that on 11 August this year it is a hundred years since the Latvia-Russia Peace Agreement was signed. And that at the time when the border between Latvia and Soviet Russia was set, there was a request from the then Latgale politicians, representatives... on the fact that it was in the territory of Belarus that 60 thousand Latgalians who lived in the county of Dris remained. In fact, the county of Dris remained on the territory of Belarus. At that time, unfortunately, our government did not hear... did not listen to the Latgalian politicians. And historically, that was what happened. By this I would like to say that Belarus has a... there is also the blood of the Latgalians. Of course, these people or their descendants hardly remember Latgalian language, culture, but it is a fact as such – we are very closely connected with Belarus. And I can say from my experience that when I work in the municipality as a manager... we have had many forms of cooperation with colleagues in Belarus. I will not hide – at that time, long ago, many Belarusians, even politicians, have expressed their displeasure with the regime, with Lukashenko as president. And now it actually works. I just want to say that, of course, the Belarusian people will be on their own – they will choose the president, change the regime, system, order. We can only support it. But... I would still like to tell you about such an unpleasant surprise – unpleasant for me and, I think, for many – about the fact that the Latvian Government... In my opinion, the Head of Government is very surprised to announce that he refuses to hold the Belarusian World Championship in the hockey. What is it? Is this an appeal against Lukashenko or against the Belarusian people? I think the hockey is in the interests of the people, in the interests of the people. And we cannot already know what will happen in a week or two in Belarus – maybe there will be a different President or a different situation. I think this is an hasty decision. I would call on the government to reconsider and not to rush into conclusions. Or then the Latvian Hockey Federation... Is that so? Does Europe, in the world, have a hockey management not see what is happening in Belarus? I think they see no worse than we do. Why are we running ahead?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dear colleagues, I support this draft communication because the Belarusians are waiting for an assessment from us. They're waiting! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U33	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U34	"We must not ignore what is happening in our neighbourhood." With these words at the end of 2010, I called on Members of the Saeima to support the Saeima's statement on the settlement of the opposition following the presidential elections in Belarus. At that time, this statement was rejected, from Unity to Reconciliation. Now, ten years later, we have come back to the Saeima's announcement of the ongoing presidential elections in Belarus. This time the protests are larger and it seems that Belarus will not be able to do without change. I would like to emphasise that it is in Latvia's interest to ensure that violence is prevented in the neighbouring country, that the situation is as peaceful as possible and that human rights are respected. At the same time, we must respect the right of self-determination of other peoples, the right to decide on our future if we are to expect identical action from other countries. Just like during Ukraine's Mayan, right now, during the Belarusian protest... I would like to emphasise that neither the West nor the East should define the future of Belarus. Only the Belarusian people have the right to decide the future of their country. That is why I was unable to support some additions to the draft communication yesterday at the Foreign Affairs Commission. For example, financial assistance to associations. For we ourselves would not be happy if other countries started to actively fund various left-wing societies of Latvia. Changes are in the hands of the Belarusian people themselves. There is a lot of uncertainty as to how events could develop, but I am concerned by the circumstances that Russia is trying to destabilise the situation in Belarus as much as possible and, at the same time, to strengthen its influence. Not only international events, but also the fact that domestic... The branch of “United Russia” is ready to deal critically with the Belarusian Government, with which they have been in a friendly relationship for almost 30 years, which also raises questions. Events can develop in different ways. Latvia and Europe should understand whether they are ready for realism, not just in words, to support the independence of Belarus if it were to be threatened. And such a probability exists. The answer to this question is very important. Although the initial statement by the Foreign Affairs Commission was more precise, I also call for support to be given to this statement by the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U35	Thank you. Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U36	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, However, I want to remain a little bit at the political discourse. Politics has very important gestures, and (A sound break.) ... The draft decision drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Commission is, I think, a very important political gesture that the Belarusian society is waiting for. ( Technical problems.) I would like to say that it is very important for us to defend human rights, because Belarus is the continental part of Europe and there is no such attitude in Europe as to express the free will of the people about the political situation in the country. It is very important for us that human rights in Belarus are respected. We are eyewitnesses in this actually last one and a half week about how the Belarusian nation's self-perceived has changed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U37	Dagmar, we can't hear you right away. Maybe the microphone's closer!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U38	I would like to remind you that democracy is always a process and democratic elections are one of the foundations of human rights. It is very important for us to remember that democracy is never a status, but it is always a process and we need to support the peoples of our neighbours at this moment in the fight for democracy. I think it is also very important to realise that Latvia will support the Belarusians in the Council of Europe, that we can promise such support. That is what I understood from my colleague, Lībiņa-Ener. I would urge you to perhaps touch the economy less... economic issues, but remember that the issue at the moment is human rights, which is the basis for people to feel safe in their own country, so that they can express their opinions freely. I call on my colleagues to support the draft decision prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission, and thank you for this work.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U39	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U40	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We are just doing our job, because the Saeima is obliged to express solidarity, its attitude towards what is happening in our neighbours and not just in our neighbours, but in the world, and we are doing so. However, solidarity is no longer a quarantine practiced by distance, especially when it affects the neighbours. That is why I would call on the Latvian public to support, encourage the Saeima and the Latvian government to act in such a way that those Belarusians who want to live in Europe can... in order to be able to live and work in Europe. Therefore, let us not be afraid to open the border to a limited number of Belarusians who will express their desire to live in Europe, and let us open our doors to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U41	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U42	Dear colleagues, Indeed, every normal person has a duty to support the efforts of the people in their own... on the possibilities to express your wish... your wishes, your... their vision of events and so on, and still. Naturally, it is the duty of every normal person to condemn unjustified repression of protestors, peaceful protestors, naturally, without regard to this, if they accept a different nature. This is very right and very important. From an ethical point of view, this seems to me to be extremely important from a moral point of view, so the statement in this case has its place and role. But it seems to me that it would be very important not only to debate the communication as a text and everything else - about the support that is really needed, because Belarus is our closest neighbour, our big trade partner and everywhere. We have a large Belarusian Diaspora, which is also watching with great interest and excitement what is happening in the neighbouring country. But there are also three lessons from what is happening in Belarus today. The first lesson, unfortunately, is that I doubt very much that the idea of a state... on behalf of the people's elected presidents will get support from the coalition, from our resurrections, if you can say so. Therefore, if we really want to introduce the order that the President of Latvia is elected to the whole nation, it must also come from the people. The second lesson is that our government must also think that the failed promises can cause a similar reaction to us. This is a very serious lesson, for the unfulfilled promises, even the unfulfilled standards of the law, are enormous. And the third lesson, naturally, is in the work of a foreign restaurant. Mr Dombravas has already mentioned the 2010 debate on how to limit, as he said at the time, the 'last European dictator' by introducing sanctions, and then there was a long debate in Parliament. And it was really a serious issue, because sanctions were also intended not only for officials, but also for companies, sectors and so on, which could have had a negative impact on our trade and economic relations as well. Then it took time. And, to be honest, I would very much like to read how the speech – Kariņa's speech or Levite's speech – would have looked like, with the adoption of the President of Belarus on an official visit to Latvia in April, and how, if this had happened, we could have commented on it today. In particular, unfortunately, much has not changed from the regime in Belarus and its situation has not been very bright and very variable in a positive direction. But at that time, however, we were brave and invited the Presidents of Belarus to visit Latvia in the atmosphere. I haven't heard of a hockey championship, by the way. Yeah, but that visit was cancelled... has been postponed due to the pandemic crisis, not to events linked to the electoral campaign in Belarus. Therefore, I think that here we should think not about one step, but ten steps forward, creating an independent national foreign policy for Latvia. This is extremely important. When it comes to what Mr Dombrava, among other things, said, about their financial support. Financial support, if we are talking about an expression of the people, cannot be addressed to individual societies, because then the selection of which society – yes, to which – no – begins immediately. And here, in the light of what has just been said, that we do not have a particularly bright and interesting and in-depth analysis of the situation in Belarus, on those political forces that are present today in Belarus would be the wrong step towards identifying this type of necessity to support a certain part of society. It's neither thoughty nor far-sighted. In general, if this part of the notification is not taken into account, it could in principle be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U43	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, Mr Kola, is there something to be added or explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U44	No, thank you. I think Members have clearly indicated Parliament's support for the Belarusian people, and I therefore also call on Members to formalise this and specifically support the draft Parliament's decision by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-08-18-PT13-2108-U45	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft decision on the Communication on the presidential elections in Belarus! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The decision has been taken. (Applause) Thank you, dear colleagues. The agenda for the first extraordinary sitting has therefore been examined today. There is still time for the statement. So our colleagues Juris Jušas and Arthur Rubiks have celebrated the half-circles of this month and the round anniversary, and we welcome them. (Applause) Thank you. Registration of participants is also required. It's been a success. So I closed the sitting. The next sitting will be held in 20 minutes – at 11.50 a.m.
