ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U1	Hello, honourable Members! Let's start the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 10 November 2020. There is one item on the agenda: the draft decision on the announcement of an emergency. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U2	Hello, colleagues! In its meeting of 9 November 2020, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the Cabinet Order of 6 November 2020. 655 Promulgating an emergency. We all know the reasons for the order. In Latvia there is a rapid spread of Covid-19 infection, which poses risks of overload of the health care system. In order to reduce the spread of infection and the risks associated with it, several (I would even say many!) were introduced in this emergency order. restrictions on natural and legal persons. All I'm not going to list, but I'm going to try to fit into 10-15 minutes, to list the most important, the most important. First. All public events on the spot have been cancelled and banned (except for legally organised pickets in outdoor spaces with a maximum of 50 participants). Next. Beauty services (with the exception of hairdressing services), flushing and tattooing services as well as economic services related to entertainment and well-being are prohibited. That prohibition shall not apply to resting in nature trails. Hairdresser services are available only after recording, providing visitors 10 square meters from the available area in the hairdresser. The Ordinance requires that no more than 10 people be allowed to come together at the same time and from no more than two households, except for funerals. It is allowed to gather not more than 10 people at the same time (excluding persons directly involved in ensuring funerals), but more than two households. The Order provides that at cultural sites, exhibition sites, sports and religious places, work is started not earlier than 6.00 and ends no later than 20.00 (except for the activities of sports centres – they end not later than 22.00). In public catering establishments, food is allowed only for reception. On holidays and holidays, there shall be limited shops in the shopping centres where the total area reserved for marketing is at least 10 000 square metres, or in separate locations where 10 operators operate. Only food, optics, animal feed, hygiene, farm and telecommunications shops, booksellers, pharmacy, including veterinary. The Ordinance requires that suppliers and buyers of commercial services use oral and nasal covers at street outlets and in open market areas. At least 10 square metres of space should be provided for one visitor at the retail outlets, cultural sites, exhibitions and religious activities, but information should be placed in a prominent place at the entrance – also in foreign languages! - the maximum number of persons present. The Ordinance also imposes various restrictions on education. It is planned that children's camps will cease, the training process will be organised remotely. Kindergartens continue to work. On-the-spot training is also continued by students from grades 1 to 6. Exceptions from the distance learning process are also provided for practical parts of professional and higher education programmes, which cannot be carried out remotely. In turn, collective attempts of acter arts take place at a distance, but only individuals or persons living in the same household can be present. With regard to sport. All sports events with the exception of training in indoor and outdoor spaces of Latvian adult team, Olympic and paralympic team, sports competitions included in the International Sports Federation sports competition calendar for adult team athletes, if they are held without a viewer, international and highest league sports competitions, in which only adult, professional athletes participate, if they are held without a viewer. On the other hand, in the case of other sports trainings, the order provides that sports training is allowed to take place outdoors in one training group (at the same time there are no more than 10 persons meeting in an organized manner). In turn, indoor sports training takes place individually or under the guidance of one sport specialist to one person or persons living in the same household, respecting the distance of two metres, as well as providing one person with at least 10 square metres of space available to visitors. Judicial proceedings shall be organised using as far as possible written procedure as far as possible. An oral hearing shall take place on the spot, subject to the requirements of epidemiological security, where the examination of the case cannot be ensured in writing or remotely and where the examination of the case involves a significant violation of a person’s rights and objective urgency. The order also provides that investigations into pre-trial criminal proceedings are to be carried out remotely, if possible. The Order also states that the Council of Sworn Courts of Latvia and the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia may impose restrictions on the admission of visitors in person or decide on its termination instead of the practice of Sworn Court Performers and Sworn Notaries. The order also lays down implementing rules for the work of the courts of the orphanage, including that the courts of the orphanage may look at the cases remotely and take decisions in written proceedings. The order provides for the suspension of the temporary deprivation of liberty and the abolition of criminal penalties - the arrest - in detention facilities and for the suspension of detentions and detentions of persons in prisons. It is also planned to postpone the transfer and taking over of sentenced and arrested persons for further execution in prisons in the territory of the Republic of Latvia. The convoy of prisoners to courts has also ceased, except in cases containing an object of state secrecy. In this situation, the order provides that the Chief of Prison Administration, the Chief of State Police and the Chief of State Fire and Rescue Service have the right to instruct any employee of an institution under their authority to perform any other official duties than those specified for a particular person in the job description, or to perform them in another entity. They shall also, where appropriate, have the right to recruit staff for a continuous period of more than 24 hours. With regard to social services. For long-term social care and social rehabilitation institutions to receive new clients, evaluating the possibility to guarantee customer safety and the need to receive the service immediately, as well as the resources necessary for providing the service. Other social service providers providing social services with full or partial accommodation, such as crisis centres, continue to provide them, ensuring that the epidemiological safety requirements are respected and that the necessary precautions are taken. In turn, provision of social rehabilitation and psychosocial rehabilitation services is permitted, subject to the requirements of epidemiological safety and established restrictions and establishing that individual services are provided in person, consultations are provided remotely. Social services shall be provided on the spot if a Covid-19 test has been carried out and is negative. In addition, the order requires the employer to provide remote employment opportunities for the employee if the specific nature of the job allows it and the employee has the opportunity to carry out these duties fully at home. The worker shall be provided with personal protective equipment for work on the spot. The employer must also set out measures to limit the prevalence of Covid-19 by identifying the person responsible for carrying out them out. The order requires a natural person to comply with the requirements set out in the order, while the organiser of the event or the operator of the economic activity or the public service provider must ensure that the person is able to comply with these restrictions. The Order provides that the Minister of Defence shall take a decision on the provision of support of the National Armed Forces to the National Border Guard, the State Police, the Prison Administration, as well as the civil protection system, assessing the impact of the expressed request on the performance of the direct tasks of the National Armed Forces and the level of compliance of the National Armed Forces with the relevant task. The Order also states that ministers of the relevant sectors will take a decision on the progress of the training process in military educational institutions, home affairs education institutions and prison administration Training Centre. The Ordinance provides for a number of authorities involved in limiting the prevalence of Covid-19 infection to allow overtime work above the statutory maximum hours of overtime, but not exceeding 60 hours per week. Having heard the reports of institutions and specialists, the Commission considered the announcement of the state of emergency and the restrictions on the rights of natural and legal persons as appropriate, proportionate, reasonable and necessary. I therefore call on the Saeima, on behalf of the Commission, to support the draft decision submitted by the Saeima. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U3	Thank you, Mr Ranzan, for the extensive and good report. Colleagues! Before we start the debate, I would like to inform you. The Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, Ilze Viņķele - Minister for Health, Jānis Vitenbergs - Minister for Economics, Jānis Reirs - Minister for Finance, Ramona Petraviča - Minister for Welfare, Nauris Puntulis - Minister for Culture. And the first of the Members has applied - and in writing Ivars Zarins. Then the name will be given to all others who have applied electronically and in the system. I hope that I also answered the question asked by Mr Zarins and there is a clear order of debate for everyone. Colleagues! Let's start a debate. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U4	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members and honourable Members, Ministers! Colleagues! This is already the second time this year, when I turn to you with an invitation to support the government's order on emergency situations in the country. I am not doing this lightly; I am actually doing it with a hard heart. The Covid-19 pandemic around the world continues its, perhaps a victory move. A country by country is coming... Well, fall, you could say about the victim... falls into the role of a victim of this pandemic. Unfortunately, there are still no medicines or vaccines against this virus, which means that doctors and medical staff can help a sick person but cannot cure them safely. We can see that this virus and this pandemic go into such known waves. It could be said that this is already the second wave, or second outbreak in our country. At the end of September, we were very, very low, as long as it was, all summer, but now in a very short time, in a few weeks, this disease began to grow exponentially. We have adopted (many times) restrictive measures in the government with one objective of halting the spread of this disease. We are reducing people's contacts, because that's what this virus is looking for. This virus is looking for us to come together so that he can jump from one another to another, sickening everyone present at a common event. Unfortunately, we have seen that these restrictions introduced are not enough to break these transmission chains. And, following the discussions that we have had for a long time, of course, with our health specialists, our Infectologists, the government decided to declare an emergency from yesterday in order to break these chains. This is an emergency for a month. These measures... Mr Rancan called them all very detailed, I will not repeat them. They are aimed at one thing: protecting the health of our members of society in order to protect the lives of our members of society. Unfortunately, more than 100 people in Latvia have died of this disease. We also see another very worrying phenomenon: our hospitals are becoming increasingly burdened with the Covid-19 patients. Our healthcare system has been able to reorient in a very short time, giving an increasing number of sick beds to Covid-19 patients, but this ability is not unlimited, as even more beds can only be extended at the expense of limiting other services. We don't have so many medical staff, we don't have so many medical facilities to be able to receive more and more patients. And already today our healthcare system is being overloaded. If we do not act firmly and quickly, we could end up in a situation where our healthcare system is no longer able to provide everyday services because it is over-exploited by the Covid-19 patients. We have therefore introduced these measures, which, of course, come as an emergency, which we call on you, the Saeima, to confirm so that we can not enter into such difficulties that the health system is unable to provide us with quality services; so that we can reduce morbidity, reduce mortality and ensure that we get through this outbreak. Of course, the question is: if we now adopt such measures which directly close several sectors in our economy, then what to expect for those working in these sectors? How, then, can they handle them purely economically? And today, in the government sitting, we approved - and it will, of course, be possible to go further by a number of ministers who will also speak today - one rather broad package of support, based on the package that we developed in the spring, but also in the light of the shortcomings and one other, which we have learned well since then. So - in big trains - there is a subsidy (and already accepted) for employees in the idle, but the support of the idle is different from the support of the spring... In the spring, we still linked partial aid to taxes paid, but we have now found in this process that there is so much inequality between the various tax regimes that one large part of society is socially-secure, but a significant part is not socially-secure. We will pay similar benefits this time - no matter which tax regime people... The working people are, of course, fairly paying taxes while working in the tax regime approved by the government. Of course, what you, colleagues, are now debating... and it will be in the second reading of the 2021 budget package... there are improvements to the tax system so that in the future we prevent the situation that one large part of the working population in Latvia is not socially protected. We must protect all our employees in Latvia, so of course we have proposed improvements to the tax system; it is the Saeima... the budget package. But in the case of cut-off benefits, we will not link these benefits to one or the other specific regime this time, but we will pay them all in the same way. There are also subsidised jobs, which... There was a program that could say what we're in the spring... Where we came... We're already starting this program in this wave... and also working capital subsidies to help companies, directly affected companies, to cope with them. Our aim is therefore essentially to overcome the spread of the virus in Latvia. Our Minister for Health, Mrs. Viņķele, will be able to explain in more detail how this... how this virus is transmitted and why we took the measures we took to break these transmission chains. That is the basis for this: protecting the health of our citizens, the life of our citizens. What follows is that there is also a need to support our economy, to support our entrepreneurs and our workers, who are directly affected by the decisions that we have taken to overcome the spread of the virus chain. And this is also in a programme approved today by the government - subsidies for workers in the form of an idle, subsidies for jobs and subsidies for working capital. Colleagues! The fact that I'm speaking to you from my office and you're sitting in your own offices already indicates that the situation is extraordinary. It's not a day. We cannot freely gather together in Latvia, freely, as we say, to exchange words on the spot; we meet out there because we each want to help to break the chain of spread of this infection. We must ensure that not only can we break this chain, but that society as a whole can; that we do so together. To conclude, I would like to call once again on you fellow Members to weigh and support the government order. Let us work together - the government, the Saeima, the whole society - and let us overcome this outbreak! Let us find a way to help each other and society as a whole! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U5	Thank the Prime Minister. We are continuing the debate. First name to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U6	Hello, colleagues! First of all, thank you very much for your operational and also very constructive work from March... working together with the government to reduce the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on Latvian citizens, the economy and the health care system as a whole. As the Prime Minister said, both the spring cause and the summer have been quite successful. And at the moment, there is a need for an emergency so that we do not get into a situation where the absolute majority of European countries are. Let me give you a number of figures that show that the emergency situation is now - with a set of restrictions - a necessary step in order to avoid overloading the healthcare system and significant restrictions. So, as the Prime Minister said, we have had a much slower increase in infection and with almost a month's delay compared to Europe. 2 October Latvian indicators... These 100... these cumulative 14 days of infection per 100 thousand inhabitants were 19,5 whereas in our neighbouring countries - both Lithuania and Estonia - the rate of infection was much faster, and in Lithuania, for example, it reached almost 46 cases per 100 thousand, and in Estonia it reached almost 51. At that point in Europe, we were among the five with the lowest figures. It has to be said that the fact that we are still a Member State with one of the lowest levels of infection at the overall base increase in the European Union remains relevant, that is to say. But that does not, of course, give us the basis for hope and action. That is why these additional restrictions are also necessary. If we look at the current figures, please bear in mind that in Europe the average is currently 496 cases per 100 thousand, in Latvia they are 178. For our neighbouring Lithuanians - 470, the Estonians have a rather rapid rise, and after seemingly two weeks of peace this indicator is literally a climb to almost 120 in a week. Why is it important to act now? Because the series of gradual restrictions had already been in place since October, but in view of the potential effects it had to be concluded that they were insufficient. As we were able to get acquainted with the study published by the University of Latvia yesterday, which was carried out together with the help of mobile operators, the movement of the population has not changed in Latvia compared to the spring, despite the fact that a number of restrictions are already in force as of October. And that - so human mobility, enough contact - is one of the reasons why infection, although not as fast as in Europe, is spreading in Latvia. We must, therefore, reduce this proportion of contacts, which is not critically important, hopefully for four weeks, so that our healthcare system is able to provide timely and high-quality help to those who get into the hospital with Covid-19, as well as to all those who need another help, because unfortunately, other diseases do not leave or end during the Covid-19, and these patients also need healthcare. At the moment we are in a situation where Latvia's 21 emergency hospital... In total, about 30 percent... is regarded as such a bed reserve, and it includes both those patients... This is true both for scheduled patients, for acute patients and for Covid-19 patients. And it must be said that we should also keep within the limits of this number of Covid-19 beds that could be subject to changes that are still tolerated by the healthcare system - within the limits of 450 beds. I would very much like to congratulate Members of the Saeima and the general public on the observation that previously adopted restrictions are working, unfortunately, for such optimism... there are no grounds for remaining. It has to be said that in Latvia, the rate of hospitalization is slightly lower compared to other countries. And we hope that this will continue. I would also like to draw your attention to a number of figures that describe the situation that the number of tests last week, compared to a week before, has increased significantly: we carried out 16,5 percent more tests. The positive proportion of Covid-19 increased by 34 percent compared to two weeks. Another week back compared to... With the previous week, the rise was 19 percent, and in the second week of October, if I am not mistaken, the rise was 60 percent within the week. This means that this little stabilisation has taken place. Compared to last week, the proportion of positive tests has increased by 0.6 percent and the number of hospital-hospital patients by 10.7 percentage points. These figures have therefore, as I have already mentioned, been epidemiological considerations which have been accepted jointly and severally by the government. What is the difficult task of politicians is to balance the fact... this epidemiological package with a forecast for next month, because if we succeed (and I would like to say not "if" but - "we succeed") to stabilise the infection curve, this effect of hospitalised patients will continue for another four weeks. Let me say that this is why this action is important at the moment. And so it is the task of politicians to act on the basis of epidemiological facts, to act decisively, to be careful, to urge to be careful and conscious of society as a whole and not to panic. So this is a very difficult task for us all together, but, as I said, the spring results showed that we can do this together with Parliament and with society as a whole. And I'm sure we can do that this time too. Thank you. And I look forward to your support for the announcement of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U7	Thank you to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis. Dear colleagues, Member Zarins has asked several questions about the procedure. The Legal Bureau shall communicate with him and clarify the point of procedure. Paragraph 58 of the Saeima's Rules of Procedure reads as follows: ‘The rapporteur, the Prime Minister and the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers shall give the floor out of session in the debate’. We are trying to explain this to Member Zarin. Then Member Zarins asked about the order of application and the time of application for the debate. This information is being collected, and I hope that after a certain time, when it will be possible, Member Zarins will also receive it. But we are bound by the parliamentary roll in Rule 58. Once again, I quote: “The rapporteur, the Prime Minister and the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers shall be given the floor out of session in the case under discussion.” Dear colleagues, We shall continue the debate in the application order. The name of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U8	Hello, colleagues! So... I am not an epidemiologist, and I find it difficult to communicate and comment on the validity or necessity of the restrictions imposed on Friday, but I can now comment on the consequences for our economy. The sectors of entertainment and human services and services are significantly affected and restricted. These are sectors that employ a large number of people, people-intensive industries. Then, from Friday evening's point of view, there has been an intensive effort to give clarity to people working in these sectors, entrepreneurs. And here I would like to thank both the staff of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and my colleagues in other ministries - the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and Science - because also in these sectors... under the authority of the ministries in the sectors of work is... they are subject to these restrictions. That is why, in such a short time, three support mechanisms have been put in place to help these people, who, following this government decision, can no longer work from Monday at their workplace and cannot provide themselves with means of subsistence. And the three support instruments developed. It is important that they are designed at the same time to create a sense of security for both employees and companies. Unlike the spring, the support mechanism is also intended for businesses, as there is a great deal of current payments, even though the company is closed, a variety of utilities and other costs, which will only increase in winter time. It is very important that people have improved and prepared this support mechanism for the dead. If you can't go to work, you can be sure you will have these resources. In addition, a new aid mechanism has been developed, which is a partial subsidy... the workplace and what has not been so far. In other words, it will be possible to combine such support mechanisms, such as catering or hotels: that part of the staff does not work and is idle, part of it continues to work. In order, for example, to be able to prepare these products for take-up, they have the possibility to receive subsidised aid. Thus, the company will be able to assess itself how to work better further and to help its employees. These aids are harmonised until the end of this year. And I hope that the situation will improve significantly in this time. In addition to all the requirements so far, we have managed to keep our manufacturing and exporting companies, even though the disease has been observed there... but have not been able to localise so far. Essentially aware: if a sector is closed or restricted in order to save other sectors, the aid must also be adequate. There are three instruments here... enough volume... and work needs to be done further so that these instruments can be put into practice as soon as possible. As early as December, people are able to receive a monthly payment, because every person has nothing to cancel - credit, other payments must also be paid, so that cash must not be cut off. And at this time of ignorance, this is particularly important. In parallel, we will decide in the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on support for the extension of sickness benefits, the extension of sick leave, because during this period it is also observed that employees, when concerned that they might lose their job, go with Covid-19 symptoms to work. There are also employers who encourage people to get to work because they are simply putting their costs on their shoulders. In this case, I hope that it will be agreed that the country is getting involved and that the first three days, while a person is making a test, cover these costs. The work is also ongoing and we will work to extend this tax holiday to the SRS, because the crisis has not disappeared anywhere. The support mechanisms for Altum must also be continued. They have successfully demonstrated themselves, but, as I said, the crisis has not disappeared anywhere, and these support mechanisms must also go along with the crisis. In parallel, it is important to reach an agreement with commercial banks on postponing different payments, or the moratorium on these banks and the moratorium on insolvency, so as not to start the waves of insolvency and bankruptcy. Once again, I would like to thank my colleagues for their support and also the ministerial staff. And I hope that the agreement that has been reached... Maybe... Let us quickly put in place and avoid various difficulties, and it will be easy to get this support from people, and there will be clarity and understanding from society. So thank you to all those involved.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U9	Thank you, Mr. Wittenberg. However, Member Zarins wants to talk about the procedure. Please enter the procedure section. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U10	Yes, I would like to point out that I had applied for a procedure...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U11	Please press the “Log in” button to have a time report possible! Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U12	I had already done that. I would like to point out that I had applied for a debate on the procedure already when the rapporteur reported - in order to point out an infringement of the procedure, namely, Madam President, you interpret the roll of the Saeima's order in an inaccurate and incorrect manner. In the order book of the Saeima, you have read only the first part about the fact that there can really be such a delegation, but you have not read that there can only be one representative of the MK, and not all ministers can now speak in turn before Members. And speak each hour. Such a right is not provided for by the parliamentary order roll, so... It was therefore concrete that one spokesman. It's Prime Minister. Go on. I know clearly that in the debate I had applied before all the ministers, and that was also registered and appeared on the agenda. I therefore call for this infringement to be recorded and for such breaches to be prevented in the future and also for the procedure to be discussed in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U13	Thank you, Mr. Zarins. Colleagues, I will once again quote Rule 58.1 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure: “The rapporteur, the Prime Minister and the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers shall be given the floor out of session in the debate.” In my opinion, it is written black on white and clear enough for everyone. Yes, the Cabinet of Ministers has given a mandate to speak to several ministers in this case. Colleagues, this is a very important issue, we are deciding on the announcement of an emergency, which concerns a range of different areas of life, and every minister wants to inform Members of the Saeima, who have to take these important decisions, as well as the public about the decisions that have been made in the specific sectors, also about... taking into account also the aid measures that exist in each of the sectors concerned. There is no question here about one specific legislative proposal. We are continuing the debate. The name to the Member, John... the name of the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U14	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! Dear colleagues, On Friday, 6 November, the government decided to restore the emergency by 9 November, and today we are putting in front of you the economic support instruments that we have prepared for this emergency. Workers in the Covid-19 sectors will have access to no-fly benefits, while companies will have access to both subsidised jobs... but also grants for working capital. The lower end of the cut-off benefit threshold will be 330 euros per month, which is the result of a minimum wage of minus 30 per cent, as 70 per cent of the salary is paid. We're... Given that the first reading has been voted on in the budget on standards that correct the situation that very many people are not socially insured (the Saeima has voted in favour of... conceptually on such a case), we assume that from 1 July next year taxpayers will participate in these payments and we can pay financial funds to those who have not been taxed at least at the minimum level of remuneration. We have also revised the ceiling. Given that wages have increased and other indicators have changed, this ceiling will amount to EUR 1000. The benefits will be available to those who have a 20 per cent drop in turnover compared to the average in August, September and October and who work under these NACE codes in sectors affected by the government emergency decision. Grants will cost employees... They will also be self-employed and beneficiaries of patent fees. Grants for jobs are set at 50 per cent of the average wage declared for three months - August, September, October - and will cost employees a maximum of EUR 500. So part of the remuneration of the state is being subsidised and the entrepreneurs will not have to pay the full share of the remuneration, because we also understand that those entrepreneurs who will continue to work in these sectors that are allowed to continue their work, such as the catering sector, will have less turnover. The subsidies for working capital are intended for enterprises whose turnover will fall by at least 20 per cent during the three months of August, September and October and which, according to the NACE codes, work in the sectors affected by the government's decision. We in the working group have also decided to do exactly the same tactic that we did for the spring, so to meet every week, to evaluate both the offers of the sectors, the offers of our social partners and the offers of the organisations supporting entrepreneurs... assess the aid and, if necessary, make corrections. Consequently, the available funding. In general, as a result of the spring, we have defined that our funding, together with co-financing from private financial institutions and with an impact on the economy, amounts to three billion euros. Almost half of these funds have already been invested or spent on benefits, or have been allocated to entrepreneurs for investments, maintaining turnover, and maintaining liquidity. These three billions not only include money... in terms of money, but also a very significant amount of money is the discounts for entrepreneurs, enabling them to pay taxes over a three-year period... are affected during this period. We also have the opportunity to attract additional resources to mitigate these Covid-19 effects and to support the economy if necessary... to the extent necessary, because in practice we have opportunities (which have not yet been used) for both the Nordic Investment Bank loan, the European Investment Bank loan, the Council of Europe Development Bank loan, and - where we already use some of this - SUPE, which is an instrument for reducing unemployment in the European Union. So all these funds are available, only one must remember that these are all borrowed funds and we will have to repay them. As a result, the government has already decided in the spring that our external debt should not increase by 52 percent... to GDP, which we are also trying and will try to respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U15	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Name to Minister for Welfare Ramon Petravič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U16	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Due to the unlimited spread of Covid-19 virus in Latvia, the government has decided to restrict assembly, to abolish and prohibit public measures, as well as to suspend the provision of several services. Allowing companies to work on stopping their economic activity must be in front of a compensatory mechanism, as areas such as catering, beauty, and services that provide entertainment and well-being will be very hard to deal with. This was also widely discussed by the government in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. Support instruments have been developed for both wage compensation in the event of partial or total death and payment of sick leave. In order to limit the incidence of the pandemic in workplaces, the Ministry of Welfare has prepared a draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”” which provides for the extension of the period of sickness benefit until 30 June of the following year due to the issue of sick leave due to Covid–19 illness or quarantine, as well as the deadline for counting the total sick leave... payment within the overall time limit. These pages are also paid by the State. Provision shall also be made for additional fixed-term support for persons to whom a sick leave with respiratory disease will be issued, ensuring payment of the sickness benefit from the first to the third day, providing 80 per cent of the person's salary. Thus, because of respiratory illness, a person has the opportunity to remove page B for three days to carry out the Covid-19 test and to stay at home at that time, and to avoid being able to visit their colleagues at the workplace. And it does not have to be paid by the employer because it will be paid by the state. Also, disease sheets that are already being issued as page B for Covid-19 patients or those quarantined will be paid from day one and not - as is currently the case - from day two. Indeed, it is vital that people with respiratory diseases do not go to work, stay at home, or stick to their colleagues. And I wouldn't lose it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U17	Thank you to the Minister for Welfare. Name of Minister for Culture Naurim Puntulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U18	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Prime Minister! Colleagues Ministers! Honourable Members! This is our first fight against a pandemic in the world, in Europe, certainly in Latvia for you, Members, for us, for the government and for every representative of society. Each of us has our first experience, and it would be a bit utopian to hope that none of us would be wrong. However, any failure by the government may cost far less, so the responsibility of the government is incomparably greater. And I am pleased that the government team has managed to avoid mistakes so far with irreversible consequences. The mistakes have only been those that we ourselves have managed to correct quickly. That is why I am sure that this government decision is also in the right place at the right time, and it is very accurate. Just like the support mechanisms this time, it is much more precise for all sectors, including the cultural sector, which, in this support programme, are treated in a similar way to other sectors as a very important part of the economy and, to a large extent, at this difficult time as a supporter of the moral climate of society... time for which the end of the phase is relatively difficult to predict. I am asking for support for this government decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U19	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Pause) Mr Zarins, you have applied in writing to the debate, you must also apply electronically if you still want to speak in the debate. ( Pause) Does Mr Zarins want to speak in the debate? Mr. Zarins has written. If you want to speak, please apply electronically, if not, we will consider that you do not want to speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U20	I hope I have applied. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U21	We look forward to the time of your debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please! Please log in again electronically in the system.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U22	I can't do this because I've already signed up to the system. I don't have any more room for such a system. It's been done a long time ago. I don't know what's happening to you in that system.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U23	You're in email... You have signed up to the e-mail, Mr. Zarins! Mr Zarins, we will debate the introduction of an emergency situation. Please take this issue seriously. You signed up for e-mail. Please sign up, please, again electronically in the system. ( Pause) Mr. Zarins, there is a black button above the list of the debateers with an invitation to apply. Be so kind, press this button so that you can also give your name and your name appears in electronic... Well, here's the opportunity, it's done. It's over. Ivars Zarins's last name.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U24	I also had a long electronically applied for a debate, and I do not know why it did not appear in the system and had to wait specifically once again to give me that opportunity and it would appear. But I'm sorry. But now what's happened is now... Are we talking about a procedure or a debate? What can I talk about now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U25	Mr Zarins, even the Prime Minister applied electronically, and even the Prime Minister once again pressed this black button "Apply to the debate".
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U26	I had applied for a procedure to speak a long time ago.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U27	Speak, please, during the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U28	No, for... First of all, I would like to point out that I have applied for a procedure and you do not give me the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U29	Okay...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U30	That's why... Because... Because you said...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U31	Please enter the ‘Procedure’ section.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U32	Yeah, and this...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U33	Is there a ‘Procedure’ section? The name of the Member, Ivars Zarins, is about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U34	So coming back to where we should have started. I had long applied to speak about the procedure and I would like to point out the infringement of the procedure. If we really believe today that this is an important issue, I would call for this issue to be debated in a legal and democratic way, following the political roll of order. And, Madam President, I would like you to read to the end of Article 58, which it says. What you referred to. It is said that the Prime Minister, a member and a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers have the right to speak out of court in the case under discussion. But you have not read to the end all this article that in each case under discussion there may be only one representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. So one can only speak this way, not the whole Cabinet of Ministers, not everyone can speak in an hour. So they had to follow the rules of procedure, apply like Members, and each of the others had the right to speak in just five minutes - the way we do. If, on the other hand, you believe that there is a need for a broader debate, then we change the Rules of Procedure so that everyone can debate this issue in a legal and democratic way, not bypassing the law...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U35	Thank you, Mr. Zarins. So the procedure is over. We understood your opinion, we heard it. Well, I have to say, colleagues, this is a very wide issue, and we also want to hear the views of the ministers, because we have an important decision in front of us. I understand my colleague... and I understand the political ambitions of the Members, but at the moment we are deciding on a very important matter for society as a whole. We are back to the debate. Mr Zarins, you need to apply for an electronic debate once again so that you can be given the floor in the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U36	Yeah, thanks. As far as the ambitions of politicians are concerned, my only ambition is to live in a legal and democratic state. And that's what I joined at the moment. If someone believes that this procedure is not appropriate to debate such a serious issue, please change this procedure, not bypass the law! Returning to this decision, I believe that this is very important and very expressive. The way in which the decision has also been taken - it also shows a great deal at the moment. I'm sure I'm... SAVE has long called for a decision on this emergency, and it looks like, unfortunately, when we get to know this decision, that we have different understandings with the government about what it means to decide on an emergency. It is also clear from such a decision why society is so concerned about such government decisions, because the normal declaration of an emergency situation should not be associated with anything wrong. It should be even quite the opposite - if an emergency is announced in a timely and appropriate manner, because when... as, when this decision is necessary, it means, in real terms, that changes have taken place and that the normal mechanisms, procedures, conditions under which the public is to function are no longer able to ensure that procedures are in the public interest and that procedures are managed. This requires changes in this situation, and the authority responsible for managing these processes is obliged to do so. To put it quite firmly, remove the autopilot and take the necessary corrective action so that the plane - our country - can carry on its course safely. However, as our government acts, it either does not understand what it means or is in fact well aware of it and that is why it was so avoidable to decide on declaring an emergency because it was aware that it was unable to do so responsibly and competently; that, as soon as it comes to a situation in which it cannot continue to swim like a dead fish in the current, society as a whole will be able to demonstrate its failure and incompetentness. And this decision, colleagues, is an example of this. This is very significant because it shows how power addresses the challenges assigned to it, i.e. simply putting all the burden on the other shoulders and taking no responsibility at all. It created Latvia's "success story", and it is still being done. This decision lists extensively and comprehensively the restrictions that power wants to impose on society, and many of them are indeed justified, but in this decision you will not find any words about what power is willing to do to help harmonise this situation, in order to compensate for the consequences of this decision for those who will suffer the most from this decision made by power. I have a question for you, Minister: how do you feel about the people you... To whom do you intend to deny a livelihood, but do not say anything about how they will be helped, how will they survive? Do you not think that in such a situation you are acting as the greatest Covid-19 pest agent in a society of stress and uncertainty, from which the human immune system suffers and directly multiplys this virus? I listened to your ministers at the press conference saying that there was a need to quickly create support instruments. They probably do not even understand that, by their very nature, they are indicting this government and themselves for its failure, incompetentness and irresponsibility. In particular, you have been talking about the need to prepare for the second wave of the Covid-19 pestilence since spring. You're talking, you're talking, you're talking... More than half a year has passed. During this half-year, if the power hadn't stuck in its weakness, arrogance and irresponsibility, it would have prepared for this second wave in a responsible and competent manner. If power were to be held responsible, if it were to take care of the fate of society, then a well-thought-out public emergency plan has been discussed at several levels so that we are as ready as possible for the most harsh scenario - what, when, under what conditions we do and how we compensate for these actions. Over this six-year period, the power would have purposefully strengthened the infrastructure, resources and everything else needed to overcome the Covid-19 plague and, when this X-hour is due, society as a whole could then be united and purposeful, with the feeling of support for one side of our government, to overcome this current and certainly not the last wave of the plague, because it would be clear what to do and how it would be helped to do it. And what did our government do? So, not only did it not come near this moment, it could not even have been able to decide on it, and if it hadn't been the case, you might still have been embarrassing there and could not accept it. When you get to know this plan, you feel that if you need toilet paper in trouble, then you are now offering him sandpaper. You know what? You should take one place with this sandpaper to understand what you are doing to society, what decisions you make. Therefore, my fellow Members, I will not be able to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U37	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U38	Hello, colleagues! Would I ask for a... on bringing together the time of the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U39	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U40	Yeah, thank you. First of all, I thank the Ministers and the Prime Minister for their reports, but unfortunately, an analysis of the decisions taken could conclude that the introduction of an emergency situation in the country was delayed. I would remind you that the Group had asked the government to put in place an emergency on 28 October. This happened when the number of infections doubled for a week in a row, when the cumulative number of more than 100 people per 100,000 inhabitants was overcome. It was the moment when it was clear that there would be only geometric progression of infection with Covid-19. But these more than two weeks were delayed, nothing was prepared, and as a result the public received a message from the country on Friday that there would be an emergency from Monday. On one occasion, the public was informed of a number of restrictions, including the ban on working in healthy industries. You cannot imagine the stress these people experienced in the absolute uncertainty about the support mechanisms. They were also requested by the government since spring. And now it's all about taking into account the spring training on idle benefits... You know, I read one chapter today specifically about what companies will not get support from the government. And once again we can make sure that it will be subordinate to decisions of the employees of the State Revenue Service, i.e. the employees of the companies will not be able to receive the idle benefits if the company has tax debts, which are not indicated, what debts, how large - one euro, 10 cent? It also states that it will not be possible for employees of undertakings whose members of the board are punished to benefit from the cut-off allowance. What's to be punished? How long? Again, will it be the same as in spring when people hit SRS with applications and requests, explanations? Explanatory notes: No further explanation was given to the public when the decision was made on Friday, nor were these restrictions discussed with the industries concerned. A bright example - what I am talking about on Monday in the Commission - of medical pedicir providers, of podologists who serve the majority of people with diabetes, because the public health system cannot offer these people anything other than a three to four-month row, waiting for this service in polyclinic. Thanks to God, yesterday we spoke, thank God, Health Inspectorate took note of this, and last night the podologists in Latvia could restlessly relax. Similarly, on Monday, it was not clear to social workers whether they would be able to continue providing services to their customers, as this was not the case with them. There is therefore a great deal of claims for this decision, but above all, we will only pay people 70 per cent of their salary. Tell me, please, why not 100? Why can we not go on a civilised path in other European countries when people whose work is restricted by the government are paid full wages? Latvian journalists have already studied that Latvia lags behind even its closest neighbours – Estonia and Lithuania in terms of its drop-out benefits. Thus, we are reducing our consumption, which leaves traces to the whole economy, very bitter traces, which will affect all our countries and all our people. I will not be able to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U41	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U42	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! I also ask for the time of the debate to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U43	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U44	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear Prime Minister, Ministers! Colleagues! Clearly, from a consistency point of view, it would be rather strange not to support the announcement of the emergency situation now, when new infections... the number of new cases is measurable in hundreds. That... compared to spring, when we all supported the announcement of the emergency situation and when the number of these new infections was measured even less than 10 days. Well, there's just one party just recently called for an emergency to be introduced earlier. But, Prime Minister, I don't know if you're still listening to what's happening here in the Saeima. I must tell you that the government's actions during this spring have been one great disappointment. And huge mistakes were made. I even think that we are talking about such a rather clear incompetentness in the area of economic policy, perhaps even the absence of such a policy. The most striking example is, of course, this disaster with an end-of-life benefit policy which... I would remind you that the percentage of soft pay as a percentage of gross domestic product has been lower... about three times smaller than Estonia and Lithuania. And as a result, we see that the fall in gross domestic product in the second quarter has been at least 3.2 percent higher than the average in Estonia and Lithuania. We are therefore talking that this policy has resulted in losses of at least EUR 244 million for the national economy. Prime Minister, we are not talking about everything, about all those people who had to think something about how they could survive to benefits. As we still remember very well, one official of the state boasted in fact with the stories that, here, the minimum amount of cut-off allowance is about three or four euros per month. So, Prime Minister, we also see that, for example, support for the tourism sector... Even though it was absolutely clear from the first day that it had suffered the most from the entire pandemic. Basically, some specific decisions were made only a few weeks ago, that is after... After six months, Prime Minister! We also see that now that you are announcing this exceptional situation... that the government took a decision on Friday, was probably about to take it last week - Tuesday. Then it is absolutely clear, Prime Minister, that your government had absolutely no strategy, no plan, what to do in the area of the economy. Now something was prepared for today. If we look at the parameters today for the same cut-off benefits offered by the government, then, we see, the main points, as we have just been told by this ministry, that it... First. This is not linked to the payment of taxes. Second. Minimum amount of the drop-out allowance - 330 EUR. Third. The maximum amount of the drop-out allowance - EUR 1000. And the fourth. That it will also be paid for both the patent... royalties for beneficiaries and self-employed persons. I invite you, Prime Minister, to ask your advisers to look at 4 April... The agenda of the Saeima, which includes proposals from me and from other colleagues, and to highlight what was in those proposals: a minimum amount of benefit of EUR 300, a maximum of EUR 1000. No link to tax payments or past debts. And also the self-employed, the beneficiaries of royalties. So you... your government... Then it was on 3 April. It was rejected without any debate or debate. But for your government and coalition, Mr Prime Minister, it took more than half a year to understand your mistake and to do exactly what was offered six months ago. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I call on you to avoid this mistake once again, not to wait for those six months, for another six months, and to think about the following things. First. There is a rather significant difference in today's situation from what was in April. And that's winter, Prime Minister! We have the weather here that during the winter season the heating season begins, so if the minimum amount of EUR 300 of idle allowance in spring was probably sufficient in April, then today it is no longer sufficient. I invite you to take an interest in obtaining some statistics on average heating bills in Riga and other areas, and to increase their minimum idle allowance when leaving, so that people have the opportunity to pay their heating bills. Second. It is necessary to reduce the rate of value added tax for both hotels and catering to five percent - as permitted by European Union directives. Third. Now to destroy alternative tax regimes is a huge mistake, Prime Minister! Don't wait for half a year to understand this, Prime Minister! I think you need to cancel everything that the Ministry of Finance offers you to do. Ask your advisers to bring you what we and our colleagues have presented... a proposal for a French... implementation mode... regulation of micro-enterprises. It will really help. And the fourth. Your government cannot waive representation expenses. Well, now the beauty salons will be closed. For what do you need its representation costs, Prime Minister? And also raise the pay for the government at this time - I think it is very wrong, Prime Minister! I call on you to think very seriously about these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U45	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U46	Dear colleagues, I could... I could think that the members of the Cabinet of Ministers have been appointed to the government to... Well, logically, care for the people. And at this particularly difficult time, their task, as we can see, is much more serious: actually take the lead over all the risks and also take care of them, because the emergency is not only a matter of limitations, but also of concern. But the government's actions over the last week in some way make us wonder if really government members have been appointed to take care of whether it is not the case that they are carrying out some strange task - to destroy everything, to burn the land and to leave empty houses and empty areas, because that is what could describe this, in my view, absolutely unwise government move by declaring an emergency situation if we are talking in detail. Of course, an emergency situation for any reasonable person who has read and understands what it means... Indeed, as Mr Zarins said, it could be a direct support, because at a difficult moment we are counting on the government to help us. We pay taxes, and we understand that sometime... sometime we will also be given a helping hand. But what the government did right now is... actually destroyed several sectors... I don't even look at it. And so now, where we hear these reports from the ministers... One by one, with some promises that will now be and will not be... Please do not rely on these promises, because there is one moment here that I would also like to tell you, honourable colleagues and honourable society. So first of all, if we are talking about so-called support for our entrepreneurs and those who have already closed their jobs yesterday, for those who went underground, maybe... So what kind of support will you have? You will have such support as never before. ( Laughs) This support is likely to come to you at the end of the year. Maybe. Maybe only next year, because if we read these two texts of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers very carefully - both on support for working capital and on support for idle benefits - then the transitional rules have two very interesting points, very little ones. ( Laughs) And these points, as we read, make it possible for you to be able to receive severance grants and also working capital support only then - only then! - if... when agreed with the European Commission. I could understand the big payment this... maybe some kind of need for coordination with the European Commission, but also, colleagues, how can I read it... I hope... I hope I am wrong. Maybe a minister could say that... Then also any smaller employee of any three euros, as Mr. Dombrovskis said... And we really remember that the Minister and the State Revenue Service were Nazis even for the recovery of three euros if they were not paid correctly. Then, for any payment of three euros to a staff member, as it is written in these regulations, the harmonisation of the European Commission. But, ladies and gentlemen, the deadline for real estate tax is 16 November, as we know. 16 November is the time limit for payment, in which the payments made have also accumulated - all those that we asked for to postpone in the spring. And, of course, you have also not supported our proposal not to impose penalties on real estate tax payments, nor has it... And, of course, dear ministers, you have also forgotten about teachers of interest because they... They were punished in such an interesting way. Under these rules, they will not be reimbursed until 9 November. That period, almost the month in which they were forced to leave their jobs, would simply not be rewarded. And so, honourable colleagues, I call on you not to support this project in any way, to send it back to the government, to redesign it, and to stop deceiving the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U47	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U48	Hello, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I would also ask you to combine the two speaking times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U49	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U50	Thank you. I was pleased to hear both the Prime Minister and the Ministers address thesis that restrictions must come with sufficient support. Indeed, this is the case, and it has to be said that, now that we have also analysed how much time we have had to get to know the government's proposals to support entrepreneurs, there are a number of good things that can be seen compared to spring support. That is one I would particularly like to highlight that support is now planned without involving social contributions. I think it is finally understood that, if a country provides cut-off benefits or any other form of support at the time of the crisis, then it... its motivation is to maintain employment, maintain economic activity, so that these workers do not become unemployed or become beneficiaries of social budgets. And rarely any country has the idea of linking this kind of... support of this type through past social contributions. The second positive thing is that part-time work is allowed, because many entrepreneurs were punished in spring for a deliberate, or most often an unexpected wish, at a time when there was a completely closed opportunity to do business with government constraints and simply for objective reasons - such as catering, cultural, tourist activities... Trying to carry out at least part of an economic activity, earning something and not putting all of its responsibility on the shoulders of the state social budget, but it was punished, including the recovery of the idle benefits which the entrepreneurs had, well, were extremely painful, because the money that has already been spent is the most difficult to pay. And the third is that both the amount of support and the range of beneficiaries have been extended, including self-employed and patent-payers. But, colleagues, there are three fundamental defects, which I would also like to draw attention to. During the crisis, there are two things that are important. This is the rate - the rate of decision-making and aid - and the amount granted. If we are talking about volume, it seems that yes, it is good: the grant for working capital is planned to be 30 per cent of the company's gross wages, 70 per cent cut-off benefits... But I think you will also understand quite quickly from the public and public reactions, from the reactions of those entrepreneurs who will want to use these benefits that you have cheated them once again. I don't know, intentionally or unintentionally. Where, though, is this fraud? In order to calculate this interest and the aid, the Government intends to take account of the remuneration of August, September and October this year. Colleagues, for so many industries, spring was so critical that they were still unable to recover to summer and autumn. A large number of sectors could therefore not have paid the same amount of remuneration as they did in January, February of this year. This is why other countries, such as Germany, do not now base their support instruments on the last three (or some other number) months after this year's first Covid-19 crisis, or outbreak, but take the indicators of the previous year. This is an objective drop in business volume. Because at present, sectors such as culture, tourism, and related areas that have had a very significant fall in turnover, you are taking this as a basis for offering state aid only partially from its very low level. It's too long. Mrs Stepanenko has already mentioned that, with regard to both cut-off benefits and grants, we can see that there will be a huge delay in providing aid. Because we see, for example, that a one-off post-payment is planned for late payments. The working capital also shows that the operator will be able to obtain funding by 30 June of the following year. So how can you, fellow Members, think of how these entrepreneurs can survive for such a long time? I very much hope that I may not see any detail in which it is said that the country will take responsibility for itself and pay these benefits more quickly, without waiting for the harmonisation of the European Commission, which is planned for both programmes only in the spring of next year. This possibility is likely to be taken into account by the State, provides support now that entrepreneurs need working capital rather than waiting until the summer of next year; that it will find an opportunity to pay the idle benefits now rather than at the end of December or early January in a lump sum payment for autumn months. For those entrepreneurs already bills, wages must be paid today, tomorrow, tomorrow - in a situation where they are denied employment. If you really want them to survive, not to disappear, then support must be quick and simple. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the motivation mentioned by both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance when setting out new support for the granting of soft and working capital, that the government has taken such a decision to grant higher soft pay and not to link them with social contributions, because there are changes in the budget package, where small businesses will all pay much higher social contributions next year than they have done so to date. In fact, colleagues, what you are saying is that, even if the government is giving some support at the moment, it is not really the aim of really supporting them so that they can survive, but it is a loan that all the small entrepreneurs will repay from their wallet next year. And that, in my opinion, is not the right element of motivation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U51	Thank you. Please enable a section on the procedure. Members Lībiņa-Egnere, Pimenov, Bondar, Dombrovskis and Papule ask for the Saeima to continue the sitting without interruption until the agenda item is discussed. Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until the agenda is examined! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The sitting is continued without interruption. Colleagues! We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U52	Hello, Madam President. I would also ask for the time of the debate to be combined, if possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U53	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U54	Thank you. Looking at the document under discussion on the announcement of the emergency situation, perhaps I will make a slightly different point of view, because I think it is important that every decision... must also be weighed against its consequences, its effects must also be weighed against its effects. We can see that there are quite a number of prohibitions in the field of education, and indeed there are those prohibitions. First of all, it will affect parents because parents will have to provide special training conditions at home... subject to specific conditions. It is different from what children are learning at home at the moment, for example by doing homework or... and it takes less time. In this case, there must also be a special training area equipped with technologies and smart devices so that children can participate unhinderedly in co-work - training - remotely. But the parents may solve it. And perhaps one of the benefits mentioned here will also affect parents. However, at no time did the speakers mention teachers, nor did they mention teaching support staff, who now, as children learn at a distance and work at a distance, is actually increasing. Because, as we know, there is less opportunity to work with the whole group, to discuss with the whole group; the work of the groups is practically unlikely or impossible, so we have to work with children more individually, it consumes time. And the capacity of the resources is growing, the use of resources is growing. This means that teachers, too, if they work remotely... if they do not use sick leaves and are quarantined, but work can, they will use the resources that are at home. And, in fact, it is already clear that there will be an increase even if, for example, electricity bills, internet bills will increase. And in this case, it will not be a criterion or counter argument: yes, sit in school and work at school, because these expenses are borne by the school! No, teachers, too, protecting their health... especially if you're in a class... operates remotely. Teachers are also working at a distance, and they are spending more and more on it. Unfortunately, we didn't hear about something like that here. That is why I have the question: whether educators, all kinds of educators, especially pre-school educators, but basically those who work at a distance, belong to one of the financial... For example, for groups mentioned by the Minister of Finance? No, no, no, no, no, no, 330... or 70 percent... I guess not. The sick sheet? I guess not. A subsidised job or salary? I guess not. It seems that teachers do not belong to these groups. But teachers are those who work at this time, not those who do not! They're working at this time - just like some other professions that can't choose: no, we're not going to work today. But at this point... The government in an emergency puts another type of conditions, another type of work... working. It is therefore clear that workers, especially educators, also deserve support. And I... M an has a great hope... basically a question. Even though Prime Minister and Minister of Finance... and, of course, ministers from other sectors... I was surprised that the Minister for Economics was not talking about this either... have thought about how to support teachers at this point in time. Not the doctors... on which is likely to be aid in particular... But it's the educators... Even if not requested by the Ministry of Industry... and it's natural, because the minister of the industry has no contact, there's no good relationship... and at all, there is no understanding of what the industry needs at the moment. So I would like to invite the Prime Minister - the Prime Minister! - because he is responsible for what is going on here and also Mr Reira, and perhaps also Mr Witenberg, to support someone... support the idea or possibility of providing additional funding to teachers working, especially those working in remote mode... those who work remotely, not because they have been chosen by the school, but because they have had to do so because of the Covid-19 situation or some health issue. By the way, why did I mention the Minister for Economics? Those teachers who work at home do not get lunch packages. It would be important to look at the packs if it's fair... But that's not what we're talking about right now. Mr. Wittenberg! If you were to support the allocation of additional funding to those teachers working at a distance, then perhaps the teachers could also order the relevant - catering - sector not only food at a distance, but perhaps also some lunch at a distance. This would certainly allow people in this sector to continue - either, a little different, but still to continue! - work under the Covid-19 conditions and also under those conditions. And in fact I would call the Prime Minister and Mr. Reira... This attitude... this support for teachers is now in your hands. And in fact, the time is to do... not just to praise one another in an ethical way, to say in an ethical way how difficult it is and how well we have worked, but to really do something for people! And if you know that teachers will appreciate it... And the teachers... Of course, like other professions... but at this point deserves special treatment... Maybe also for the presence of resources... I do not think you will earn the teacher's respect at the moment they find out that your salaries are increasing you, that you still support a number of things, but that you do not support the people who execute the government order in an emergency. Please confirm not only your respect, but also your work to support educators especially right now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U55	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U56	Hello! I will also ask you to combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U57	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U58	Hello, colleagues! Hello, the whole of Latvian society! Talking about the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of emergency, there are very harsh words to think about, but I will try to speak calmly. This state of emergency looks like our political elite wants to solidarity with his idols in Europe, not with his fellow people, as our President Levit says. This state of emergency and these decisions are not only controversial and illogical, but they are by nature decisions that show that... Something has already to be done, now we're going to do something. Why do I say that? These decisions are first hit by the weakest - by the weakest part of society, by the private sector, by the tax-bearing sector - so that ministers and all those in that office can raise their wages. These decisions currently open up all kinds of controllers and criminals. We read in the newspapers every day about how everyone will be punished here. We see a video where the police are sent to the flag to draw up protocols, where a desperate father of five children, crying, says he has to feed five children... But you've got a whale! You will only be punished and controlled (as in spring you sent those SRS inspectors with machines to check whether the trigger benefits have been correctly received)! In this particular situation, it must be said: if you, the elite of political power, lack the courage to adopt the Swedish model or the Japanese model, or Taiwan or South Korea... whatever, but a model that helps people... You say our healthcare system will explode, that we can't change... Where do you, our political elite, have the courage to think that there will be no consequences, that no one will notice that everyone will forget and that you will be able to continue to applaud yourself for the decisive action that you are currently doing? I will remind you, our elite power, that the emergency decision is made because of your inaction, not because of human inaction. Yours, the elite of power, the ministers... I mean, Ilze Viņķele was discing all summer (with her fingers - medium - by air!) and didn't do anything to keep our healthcare system out of fire. Our famous Prime Minister, Karin, did nothing all summer, made it possible to buy unnecessary, inappropriate facial masks. And we all know that. And no consequences! And now, for your sake, our society, especially the weakest part of it, especially the private sector, is in an emergency situation. An emergency situation in which you limit all human rights! You are even afraid to allow people protesting against these restrictions to gather together. You're saying you're gonna let only 50 people do it... regardless of Europe's direction... If you like to look there, then you should also look in the direction of Germany, which has been said by the constitutional court that you may protest and may not respect these restrictions imposed by you. In this context, I call on the entire private sector, all those who now, as we can see in the videos, who are available in the social networks, to start playing hunger games, while our political elite thinks that they are playing some kind of card games in the best American serial traditions. I call you, beloved men, go to judgment. Go to the Constitutional Court, to the Administrative Court! Get up and go on the streets! Don't be afraid! You have nothing to lose! And I want to say and call... Today, a whole series of the Cabinet of Ministers came to speak at the forefront of Kariņš, but I call these people - and Kariņš himself too - to have the courage to tell them who are the authors of the idea for each specific restriction. I invite you to come out of the closet and tell you which one of the ministers came up with a particular restriction! Not collectively... Not as a result of collective irresponsibleness, but as a result of personal responsibility... Which particular minister invented what restriction? Mr. Kariņš, be so brave and answer that question. The nation needs to know its “men ” and its people’s“ saviors. ” Mr. Karins, if you want to save your people... I don't know if you want to save the Latvian people, whether you just want to have a job in Brussels, or whether you have American citizenship, I don't know it, but be so brave and tell the public, who made it up of you that the Depo store, which is owned by the sponsors of your Unity, as I understand it, can be all week long, but small pepperboards... You can't go in there to eat people, you have to sit on a robotic room, you have to eat out! For it is your “reasonable” mind, with which you have now accepted all these things and who will now save all of us here.” All this must be stopped once! And it can only end with the Latvian people. Dear Latvian people, stop playing hunger games! Get up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U59	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U60	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, honourable Prime Minister! Ministers! Welcome, Members, colleagues and colleagues. I guess I'm the only one right now - let it perhaps stay! - who from the coalition will speak against all those Members who have just spoken against this draft law... the draft decision. I got something to say. That's the first idea. The previous speaker said that the father of five children is sitting in the bar from which he is being driven out. Should the father of five children sit in the bar from which he is driven? The question is whether it is the father of five children who is guilty or his family or that bar - well, that is a rhetorical question. But, Mr. Carney, in this case... I think some things that should be strengthened will be in my... the following text: First of all. Yeah, we all know that no law is perfect. This law, too, is not perfect. A number of speakers pointed to what could be better than what should not be. Teachers -- that's and that's... and lunch and computers... and so on. That's right. But, respected representatives of the opposition, the law is not perfect. And that... And I am sure of this, and that is why, Mr. Kariņš, I also addressed you. We're... Well, as every week... in these sittings of the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as other types of sittings where these variables are directed... And these variables... I believe that in these three weeks, or maybe in three days, maybe in four, in five... I don't know, but I believe the variables... will change and these cases will be corrected. The fact that this law must be passed... This decision is a formality that we, the Saeima, have to do. Well, that must be it! For what Mr. Zarin said. Ivar Zarin, indeed you, as a Member and also as a citizen of Latvia, who has been representing for many years, several names, a party “Congregation” - you are right. If there were no “Condition”, there would be no Latvia. I am sure that then there would still be two languages on the streets - “Brīvības iela, uļica Briviba” (“Brīvības iela” - I now translate). It is quite a great “conciliation” merit. ‘ The harmony” is where “the harmony” is. And the Latvian parties are where the Latvian parties are. That's it, Ivar. Each one of them, to say it, has a horse. Go on. On professionalism, I fully agree. I saw that I wouldn't have enough time... I would ask you to combine the time of the debate... Well, put a second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U61	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U62	Thank you. Yeah. I fully agree with what Mrs Viņķele said about her work - it was possible to do better. The way we dealt with the marathon is also proof of it. Marathon was to be removed earlier than the previous day. And it had to be done, and it was the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, whose head is the Minister of Health, in this case, Viņķele. And I don't want to say any good words about Ramon Petravič. No one! In the field of the Minister for Welfare... Nothing can be said good - at all. But now... Whatever it is, you have to live with it. For now. What I wanted to say about those decisions is that they are crystallised. Yeah, it's... Well, there's a draft... so to say, blue paper - “blue paper” on which is written what is... And then we'll be stuck... I believe that this will be the case. I would very much like any of the ministers who are now also looking at this, to talk about it and, to say so, to accept it. For a moment. You, the opposition speakers, all of you who have spoken here so far, want to say that it is not the right moment? Yeah, it could have been faster, it's true. Yeah. Well, that's it. Now, now, 10 October, we are here in the Saeima, accepting it. Yeah, it came into force yesterday. Maybe it should have been faster. Have you been at the centre of the Latvian Infectology and looked at how these people go there? Or maybe you just like that trend, don't wear masks? Because wearing them is not stylish?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “Re, there, Germany or Sweden, everything is completely different!” And so on. Such speech does not hold back any criticism. And those who are the greatest dullers - I think they are also the biggest, if I should be honest, fear. I think so. Next. What else did I write? About... Yes, supermarkets. The fact that supermarkets at last... I mean, food... Let's say, Rimi, Maxima... when those baskets are limited... That's the right decision, it should have been a long time ago. I believe that this supermarket, the already named “Depo”, or other farm shops, too... there must be exactly the same... whether it is IKEA or... no matter what the law calls what it's like for a store... it must be the same... You can't be there... Just random people, just citizens walk around... And you have a mask... and it's nothing to do with... We're closing the theatres, we're closing these things... We shut the hair salons, but suddenly we don't close the manicure... or pedicure, let's take it. Somehow don't go together because they're both with masks. There are the same things to fix. But this is like a draft paper, like a base... paper that needs to be changed. And please vote in favour. What else... Is that so? You know, it's...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U63	Thank you, Mr. Neighbours. The period of debate, including the combined one, has passed. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U64	Colleagues! I would also like to encourage my colleague Mr. Kaimiņš to visit the stroke unit, the oncology department... the departments and persons who have not received assistance in good time. You don't have to appeal to these... such things! I think this is not fair. If we are talking about the father of five children going to the bar, then, Mr. Village, going to the bar not only to drink and have a good time. People go to the bar also to open the bar, wait for the employees and lock it down afterwards – late at night. We're talking about those bar owners, those business people... for those business representatives who are currently suffering the most. And that's why there's reason to cry to that father of five children: he has nothing to feed the children. There's no way to feed children to those shop workers who... Maybe you don't like those shops... some shoes shops or fur shops. You don't think it's clear why they should be closed at all. But... Well, we haven't seen in shoes stores any crowd or big lines - such large lines as are maybe somewhere else. And... I just wanted to turn to the JPV LV. You're being deceived as a station in the tunnel right now. There were shoppers in the tunnel who promised a lot of money, but in the end you remained empty. You're going to be empty! You are currently at the greatest risk and you are currently playing the smartest grocery players. You're crying in the social networks that you don't get something, stop benefits must be paid in good time... You are responsible for what will be with our society. Not Reir and everyone else. You! I call on you not to support this draft decision, to recast it. Recast thoroughly. Take out all the excess that was made up there.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U65	Thank you. Go on. Member Artus Kaimiņš has applied for the debate, but no word is given, because both times of the debate have already been joined up. Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U66	Colleagues! For my part, I would first of all like to thank the representatives of the government, who are, of course, criticised today for their bad work, but who have nevertheless done a huge amount of work and have drafted this support package, which is much more qualitative than it was at the first time. I would like to thank the ministers who came and presented it today and defended their views and their views on this emergency situation... order. I would like to say the following about the order itself. As the opposition, of course, has no particular responsibility, they can rely on the views of the social networking experts and call for no support for such an emergency, but the government and the Saeima are, however, responsible for the situation in the country and public health, for the normal work of the institutions and for preventing overloading of the health system. I would also like to say, for my part, that we heard health professionals from the Commission. And so far, this policy has been based on the recommendations of health experts. I mean, we also listened to human rights... The Ombudsman’s Office’s representative and that these restrictions are proportionate and applicable in the present situation. Listening to this criticism to the government, why all this was not introduced earlier, why it was introduced only now, it must be said that the government is also very difficult to come up with these decisions, because it is clear that, in the autumn, the whole of Europe - apparently also our government - has come too optimisticly to this situation with this epidemiological... the spread of the virus. But I would like to remind you why the government has done so carefully. The government has done so, taking care of what? Taking care of the well-being of the population... interests! It is in the interests of the economy that this emergency situation was announced as soon as possible, and also for these people, so that they could not lose their jobs. That's my vision. And I would say that, of course, the opposition will always have a bad government (and that is absolutely normal). But what I heard from the Commission and which I see today, looking at ministers, is that work on these improvements in support measures will continue. The opposition has also expressed constructively... Of course, this is a smaller part, but there are also constructive proposals and constructive criticisms, which will probably also be heard. Colleagues! The joint task of all of us, both the government, the Saeima, the coalition and the opposition, is now to deal with this situation so that society goes out of it with the smallest possible number of victims of people and economic victims. I therefore call for truly objective, constructive and responsibleness and for supporting this emergency. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U67	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U68	Thank you. In response to the statements made by Mr Rancana, I believe that I say that the opposition is not responsible for anything: it is wrong and does not correspond to the reality. The fact that the government or the political forces in power ignore or do not support or try to cripple or hide the proposals made by the opposition and then use the same proposals when making their own proposals - that is one thing. And the other thing. To say that it is normal that the opposition will always not like government work - it is also wrong. In a difficult situation such as the pandemic and the economic crisis, it seems to me that sharing Members in opposition and position and criticising the opposition just as unconstructive action - it is not a peer-to-peer factor, but essentially a division of societies. I think that our common goal must be health, safety and stability in society... for the benefit of society as a whole. And the opposition has already tabled a number of proposals in the previous state of emergency, which the government is now applying... and accepts both its own proposals and can be said. And just for people to be safe, for them to know the rules of the game, for clear restrictions and for a clear source of livelihood for the period when their activities will be limited to the decision taken by the state. This would only increase public confidence in the government and politicians in general. And, in my opinion, the members of the opposition also have one interest only: to serve the public and to inform the public, to comfort it and to defend the interests of every representative of society, every segment of society, to provide an understanding of the restrictions imposed, to provide information on what financial instruments will be available. And to provide psychological support and emotional support, and informational support, by saying that we are together, as a whole society, we take care of every citizen, every citizen in the country. His health... I don't know whether a person speaks Latvian or Russian, because that old person who may not understand the nuances of the disease or the restrictions imposed could endanger the life and health of other people. That is very, very unethical: to divide Members' proposals into positions and opposition proposals. If they are in line with the common objective and the public interest, they should be supported and evaluated! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U69	Colleagues, although the system shows otherwise, Member Zarins has spoken once, is entitled to speak for the second time. Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U70	Yeah. Yeah, thank you. In response to the debate, I would like to say that our country is in such a specific situation that it is not the opposition that is not responsible for anything but the power in this country that is not responsible for anything. And this is the biggest problem, because we have such a frail and unthinkable decision, because it gives power the opportunity to subjugation in its permissiveness and insaneness and irresponsibleness. And the opposition is therefore right for you to criticise this. And if you are not satisfied with such order of things, set your mandate. Let's see, maybe someone can do better than you do your job that you can't do at the moment, that you can only regret and tell us how hard everything is and that you can do nothing. Seeing how decisions are made or, more rightly, how decisions are not made, I understand that it is naive: hoping to expect them to take responsible, sustainable decisions, because you simply sink into your own obscurity, irresponsibly and the only thing that makes you together - that is your failure and incompetentness that makes you keep together as a bunch of thumbs. I would like to call: try, at least, to believe that not everyone is such a child and a minor as you! Believe our entrepreneurs and, before you make a decision again on a sector you want to just like a bad surgeon cut off his arm or leg, give these entrepreneurs the chance to manage these risks first! They'll do it. Give them at least this opportunity... Or, for example, the same... catering industry. Well, don't do anything! Make it at least possible for them to make outdoor cafes! And it will also be a great opportunity - perhaps a long-term solution! - how we live in these conditions of infection and allow this business to do something. And one example is airBaltic, even the same airline. You've put 250 million in there. Well, think about what you're doing here if you can't bring tourists who can't do anything here! Well, think about it, maybe you can make some kind of service chain that involves hotels in the service area (Continues talking.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U71	Thank you. I closed the debate. Member Juris Rancāns on behalf of the Commission. Mr Rancan, is there anything to add, clear?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U72	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to thank everyone once again for the work that has been done to draw up this order and for the support measures that the Commission has been working on during the discussions... This was one of the most important tasks for the government - to draw up this support package up to today. This has also been done. Of course, I would like to remind you once again that this is a work that is taking place dynamically, and as the situation develops accordingly, all these laws can also be amended. There is nothing more to be added to me. I invite you to support the draft decision prepared by the Saeima on the announcement of an emergency and to vote on its approval.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-10-PT13-2135-U73	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the announcement of the emergency situation! Please, let's vote! For - 75, for - 4, for - 16. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, so the agenda of the sitting has been examined. There's also a record of Members. It's been a success. Thank you all for your work today. I'm closing the sitting.
