ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I call for seats to be held in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 13 February 2020. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. Members Augulis, Dūke, Dūklavs, Kučinskis, Valainis, Vucāns and others are asking for the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ulda Augulis from the Foreign Affairs Commission to be put on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Augulis, Koite, Dūklavs, Kučinskis, Valainis, Vucāns and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Legal Commission of Member Gundars Dauges. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Augulis, Krauze, Dūklavs, Kučinskis, Koite, Valainis and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Armands Krauzs from the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Augulis, Dūke, Dūklavs, Kučinskis, Valainis, Vucāns and others are asking for the draft decision on the election of Member Ulda Plant by the Legal Commission to be on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Augulis, Dūke, Dūklavs, Kučinskis, Valainis, Vucāns and others are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting "On the election of Mr Gundars Multis to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs". Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Augulis, Kučinskis, Dūklavs, Dauge, Valainis, Vucāns and others are asking that the draft decision on the election of the Member Armands Krauze to the Foreign Affairs Commission be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Augulis, Krauze, Dūklavs, Kučinskis, Koite, Valainis and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Armands Krauzs from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Augulis, Vucanas, Dūklavs, Kučinskis, Daugė, Valainis and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the election of the Member Jānis Dūklavs in the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for New Enterprise Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Iveta Benhen-Beeken, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U2	Good morning, colleagues! I call on you to support the proposal by Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, to facilitate high-risk capital entrepreneurship or... they are also called start-up companies. The Minister of Economics has heard, heard, understood the sector and its challenges and has come up with a solution. We cannot directly promote high-risk capital entrepreneurship with taxpayers' money. But this does not mean that today we cannot create an environment that promotes ideas that will succeed tomorrow. This bill for innovation companies extends from five to seven years to the period during which they can develop their business idea. The change in regulation also provides support for Latvian start-up entrepreneurs who have established a related company abroad to raise high-risk capital. Education requirements for workers are being changed to meet the challenge of attracting labour. Now, in order to meet one of the criteria, it will be necessary that only half of the staff with a Master’s or Doctor’s degree (instead of the previous three-quarters). Other small but essential technical details are also provided to help our brightest minds to realize and certainly create our own, Latvian, Skype in the near future. All of us will benefit if we create an environment for business visionaries. These changes will lead to creativity coming into our lives tomorrow. Those patriots in our country who dare to dream and want to realize their dreams must be supported, because tomorrow is becoming today. I therefore call for support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Occupation Museum of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “On disposal of the real estate part for public needs – for the strip of the border road land division near the Lugu observation tower” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “On the Agreement on the Extension of the Agreement on European Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the European Space Agency” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Thus, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted a draft decision “On a collective application of 11 189 Latvian citizens “Help prevent permanent felling and create a park in place of the former bicycletrack “Mars”!” the way forward.’ Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For granting unpaid leave to a Member Linda Ozola from 16 March to 20 March 2020. Colleagues! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting to grant unpaid leave to Ms Linda Ozola from 16 March to 20 March 2020! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the election of Ieva Kalderauskas as a member of the National Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U4	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, Members! I would like to talk on behalf of the Commission about the whole process and the two candidates on which we have to decide today. The process began with the election and disengagement of representatives of the NEPLP at the Saeima meeting on 2 May 2019 when we supported Gunta Līdaka (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) ... Thank you! Member of the National Council for Electronic Media. At the sitting of the Saeima on 10 October 2019, we decided to release Dace Ķezbere from office as a member of the National Electronic Media Council. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs announced a call for possible candidates to serve as a member of the National Electronic Media Council. At first, only three candidates had applied for the competition. It seemed to the Commission: this is a lot too little - for two vacancies only three candidates - and the deadline was extended. A personnel selection company was also involved, as a result of which 14 more candidates were nominated for the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council at the end of the competition on 20 November last year. So, in general... Of the original three, we already had 17 candidates. In the course of the competition, four candidates withdrew their candidacy, 13 candidates remained, which we also interviewed at the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission meetings, conducted a conversation on the vision, a vision of how the NEPT members should work. The candidates for the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council were also heard by the Public Advisory Council of the National Electronic Media Council and recommended to the Commission the four best candidates, which in turn really coincided with the opinion of the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission. As a result, at its meeting on 30 January this year, the Commission was unanimous, and indeed unanimously, one Member was not present but delegated his vote in advance (that was Boris Cilevičs)... There was agreement on Ieva Kalderauskas' nominations for this post. The Commission decided, by a majority as a second candidate, to lead Janis Eglīte as a member of the National Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission, I call on both of these candidates and both candidates to take on and fulfil these responsibilities in accordance with the principles of good governance, high moral and ethical standards, good governance, transparency, non-combatation and the rule of law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the approval of both the candidate and the other candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U5	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U6	Dear colleagues, Today we are being put to the vote for two candidates, on which a majority of the members of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs have already agreed. It can also be seen that this agreement has taken place somewhere else - in the famous coalition council or in some other narrow coalition format. As the coalition mom Juta Strike recently announced, no official should be elected with the votes of the opposition. I repeat, colleagues, that no official should be elected by the votes of the opposition! According to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, all Members are the same and all Members are the same (Interface: “Not the same!” ), because according to the Constitution (Interface: “Equality!” Each person in Latvia is equal and equal. Therefore, only a person who does not consider those Latvian people who voted for opposition parties to be people can say something like this... as equal, equal people - one who shows intolerance and disrespect for the people of Latvia and the people of Latvia. I'm not surprised to hear something like this from Juta Strike. But every Member of the coalition, my fellow Members, also those who like to talk about fellow men and European values, you are members of the same attitude as Mrs Strique. Highly honoured candidates for the term of office of a NEPT member... candidates for NEPLP and other current and potential officials, I would like to address you directly! Think of what that means: this coalition approach. Think of the consequences. I will illustrate an example that is well known to everyone who has ever worked in public administration. There is a big difference between those people who are ministerial officials and the staff of the ministerial bureau. The first - the officials - are considered politically neutral professionals. The other are trusted people for the Minister himself or for his party. Of course, they too could be professionals in their field, but above all they are people who are loyal to their minister and his party. When the Minister leaves, the employees of his office will lose their jobs. Dear applicants! So Mrs Strike, together with this coalition, has just made you a member of her political office. If you think you claim a politically neutral professional civil servant position, then you are wrong. Obviously, Mrs. Strike, along with this coalition, you see precisely this coalition, your party and perhaps even yourself personally... for politically loyal people. And obviously this political loyalty from you will also be demanded. And this loyalty will also be a guarantee that you will preserve your positions. What will be the consequences for Latvian society? Colleagues, there was such an old Soviet anecdotes. If Napoleon had ITAR-TASS (interim: “Who?” ; “What is it?” )... Colleagues, for those who do not know: ITAR-TASS was a news agency in the Soviet Union. So if Napoleon had such a thing, the world would never know about his defeat at Waterlo. I think that this is exactly the aim of Mrs Strique. That is the purpose of the JCPOA, namely to create a public media that would be exactly these parties, namely the colon of coalition parties, who will tell the public all the good about these parties and silence all the bad ones. Someone who will silence the opposition's views. In its greed for power, Juta Strike paves the way to totalitarian society, colleagues, and you, the coalition partners, who so much like to talk about the values of the West, have to decide whether you will pave the way with the new Communist... Sorry, I said thank you, the New Conservative Party. And you, potential applicants, must ask yourself the following questions: are you prepared to be politically loyal to this coalition and personally to Juta Strikks? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) Are you ready to become a pavement on the way to totalitarian society? The Group strongly rejects this approach in the choice and appointment of officials and will vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U7	Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U8	Good morning, colleagues! Today, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs has offered two candidates for two vacant posts of NEPLP members. I call for these candidates to be supported, but I wanted to give them a trip bag to the new candidates if the Saeima approves them. NEPT has many challenges and challenges in the future. First of all, the work of the regulator. It is the work of the regulator that requires professionalism, political neutrality. The second challenge will be to steer the process of change. With the adoption of the Public Media Law in the near future, the Saeima will have to conclude a process of change to the NEPPs, distinguishing between the monitoring of public electronic media from the NEPPs and handing over to the new Council. Management of the change process will not be easy. I wish the new members of the Council to make a contribution to the success of this process of change. The Council is responsible for the development of the media sector. We expect a competent view of the media sector from the new members of the Council. We expect from them a vision of development that ensures diversity in our media space, competition that tackles issues of media viability or sustainability. We expect that the development of the industry will not narrow the space in which we can exercise freedom of expression and expression in Latvia. We expect that the range of quality information on which citizens in Latvia, a democratic country, can make decisions and participate in the management of their country will not be narrowed. The Council also has a great challenge: preventing threats to the information area. Disinformation, manipulation: these are new challenges, which also require new tools and new actions to enable us to be able to protect our information space, the security of our country. From the Council and the new members of the Council, I expect this ability to actively protect our information space, while not jeopardising the independence of the media and freedom of expression. This is a fragile border - a border that is sought in all the countries that are fighting disinformation. I hope that the new members of the Council will be able to expect them to feel their borders with their journalism experience and protect the independence of the media. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U9	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U10	SASKA'S colleagues Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, say, how many sittings you had come to when we questioned the potential 14 candidates? Have you, let us assume, had a conversation with your group Member, Boris Cilevič? Let's take it with Mr. Nikonov? Because you said... from this troupe that there is a politically driven NEPT. Boris Cilevič and Mr Nikonov voted in favour of Ieva Calderauskas. I told you all a few months ago: come to the open sittings of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, where we will listen, we will call out the candidates concerned. Did You Come? No, no. You're coming to the platform now, and when these candidates, you don't have a chance here, sitting behind you, to come here and tell you something because they had the opportunity to do so on the commission... you are now expressing a completely opposite view. It is not fair to do so. ( Interface: ‘ Schemers! ’) ) Next thing. Maris Kučinski, I would like you to press the button and come here on the table and tell you about the transparent process of how we asked these 14 candidates and how we came to these two. Because it was, apologies to me, your good name too... in this case... in the commission... that you yourself are surprised at how unpolitical this process was. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: “You must have been so busy showing the middle finger on the coalition board... !” ) In my opinion, given the vision that Mrs Steel has already outlined for the future that we are building a new council, which is the Council, where... we have decided in the Commission that there will not be any political person there - members, officials from political parties, their departments, and so on... I think it's my opinion!) , neither should the NEPT be nor be members of political parties. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) That's right! At present, these candidates are not members of any political party. ( Insight: “Like you! ”) (Laughter) That's it! That's it! (Applause) But, John... Janis Urbanovičis, we still put a small thing into it - we have to be political (Interface: “Do not talk to the grass!” )... must be politically cool (interface: “Malakis!” ) for a period of 24 months. This makes this process unpolitical. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. In any case, I would like to see your vote, the honourable group SAVES. We will be voting here on both candidates separately. In my opinion, this is the best step of the Saeima in terms of candidates for the term of office of a NEPLP member. I call on you to assess it, not just when you have to vote... And none of you... the exception is those Members who have been in the commission... none of you came and asked any questions. No one! Now it's too late to talk. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U11	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “I will have only joy for it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U12	Good morning, dear colleagues! I would like to say that I work in this commission and come to show that this is a new practice. And the opposition probably... who works here for a long time and knows the experience of how people are driven... Let's say, the councils... We have really tried to create a new political culture so that these people are not politically engaged. I understand the difficulties you have: it is very difficult to understand and assume that this can happen. It was vital for us to get young, qualified people in the NEPPs. It was very important that the Saeima Bureau granted a considerable amount of money (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Five thousand euros!” ), the recruitment company, yes, who invited, encouraged a large number of professional people. We heard them, we asked them. We debated in a very honest manner by the Commission. I would really like this speech to be accepted as a testament. And we selected the best candidates. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the candidates put forward. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U13	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U14	Dear President, Honourable Members! I think that these candidates are very good and that the situation as it is now will change - that no day is the rule on electronic means of information. I accidentally searched for a cartoon at 8:00 a.m. because I... they had come from a neighboring house... And from my family... eight go to bed... apply to the LNT broadcast, which goes every day and is called “First Date”. I understand that LNT probably wanted to promote the Latvian lifestyle. It's a program where different couples meet. But! It is extremely interesting. One restaurant meets different sexes - both heterosexual and homosexual... But every night, or every day, I didn't really see or hear anything in my life. I understand that we have pay channels. I thought, at first, that maybe it's a pay channel... LNT. For example, there is a man and a woman who realize that it would be good to go to Amsterdam. The man tells us that there are great sex sessions that you can watch, and then he describes in detail, for example, that he has seen a great show where a woman with bananas has shown what so can't do with it... naked. Of course, with all the biological details. LNT at 8 a.m. Then, two men who are involved in homosexuals describe in detail what happens to them when they see another beautiful man when they travel in public transport - in detail all the functions of the body. ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) In that case, I thought why... We are not already asking for censorship here, but why is this relevant Council not responding? Because the law says that the rawness, rudeness, sex-related scenes should not be shown until... before 8 p.m. At first, the transmissions were eight at night. I looked at today's program from 2.30 p.m. to 17.35 p.m. Half an hour long broadcasts... several, with repetitions. Maybe it's a new Latvian lifestyle? If we're, let's say, abstract from all these raw materials... or what is extremely interesting that each program emphasizes that it doesn't matter what gender is for a man or a woman and that it doesn't matter what race is. I think it's very important in Latvia - to tell you every day that it doesn't matter what race partner is, because we already have people of different races walking around Riga here. So some programming must be early. But if we look at political broadcasts, then I'm also surprised... 1. The owner of the Baltic Channel, who is included in international sanctions... This is the one that remains. The Baltic Channel is being broadcasted and various reasons are being invented why we cannot, let us say, handle this channel in some way as with others who were purely innocent (cultural or some kind of music channel). We turn them off, but 1. The Baltic Channel, which has been engaged in propaganda for years... We have looked at this at the meetings, but nothing has happened. RTR Planeta, Russian Channel, where you can watch Solovjova broadcasts, discussion clubs every night, there also Ždanoka often performs... Almost every show calls for a wipe of Ukraine from the surface of the earth. Should it really be for the Saeima to adopt the current law on one single television channel and to record in this law that we cannot broadcast those channels whose programmes are being prepared in countries that are in war, let us say, with us-friendly NATO Member States or NATO candidate countries. I had such a similarity in mind that in World War II, the British would not be able to broadcast Gebels, say, programs if they said that it was very difficult for them to say that it was international... so that they do not forget the freedom of expression, that they continue to transmit these speeches by Gebels. It's happening every day. And the last one. I wish these changes on the radio and television board... It may be that at last some elementary order will be put in place and such an open and cynical ridicule will not happen... former violations of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U15	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U16	Dear President, Honourable Members! As my chairman of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs called for me, I must obviously also tell you a little about the events of this competition. Although I must say it right away, he was not even so innocent, especially at the end of the policy either. But I can say to Mr. Kaimiņš, because he really kept his name and tried to do the best. Yeah... Why? I think that the evaluation of the candidates, however, always ruled... But they're... was watched what they are. Undoubtedly, one of the best in all interviews was Karl Sergeant, who was informally recognised by everyone, but to say that it is not possible, because he, so to speak, is related to the ZZS. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola bell.) Well... then there was, of course, a polemic (to some extent) about Mr Putnis's relationship with the parties, but now, the final settlement, however, was... as it is. Another surprise. I think all the members of the committee - everyone! - Give me my voice for Eve Calderauskas. And then I also heard questions: “Who is she? Who is behind her?” Well, nobody's standing! Indeed, I think I have a good impression on all the members of the committee with regard to Ieva Kalderauskas. And it's not... It was, I think, also unexpected... I am now addressing Mr. Eglitis. Yes, Mr Eglitis, the ZZS will support you today (and I will certainly keep in mind all your promises that you will be objective, independent), but... It was a decision to complete the tender at all. And to some extent, it's an advance. But it is good enough for you to prove it also, that it is not in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U17	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U18	Good morning, colleagues! I'll talk from a little different point of view. I think we need to change that rhetoric. Because we ourselves don't want people to... We say, on the one hand, that people must come to politics and be politically active, but on the other, we say: no, we will not appoint those who have political affection or who are in political parties. We say they will be neutral. And so on. I feel the appointment of the most professional people - whether or not they are party members or political sympathies. Otherwise, we must actually create... I think that this proposal should be made - to make the law of politically engaged persons. And then there's a separate commission (for example, at the Ministry of Justice) that places officials of a state on this list of politically engaged persons... and so on. I am sorry: if we want to have an active, politically active, society, then we do not have to be ashamed of the fact that each of us, including today's applicants, has our own political sympathy. I will give you an example. Mr Eglitis is very active in public space - he has always defended the interests of Unity, he has always been delighted about what Unity is doing. It has been his political position despite being in the party. And on that principle I should vote against Mr. Eglitis, but I will not do so because Mr. Eglitis was actually the only person... the only one who has come and convinced him why he could be a good candidate. Second example: I have no doubt about Mrs. Calderauskas's professional skills. I do not know the political position and political sympathy of Mrs Kalderauskas. But I will not vote in favour of Mrs Kalderauskas because she has not had to convince all Members of the Saeima. I will do so not because I have claims, but because I don't know the professional skills of this person. And so, honourable Members, it seems to me that it is only normal that every person... every person goes to the elections and votes for some concrete of his or her sympathy. These persons will also have certain sympathys, subjective sympathys in their post as NEPT. There will be no possibility that people are politically neutral, that they have no point of view. That they are on a list of people who have all of them, the bad all of them, I think we need to change its rhetoric. And don't be ashamed if someone supports one another. And today, in connection with the consideration of the Riga City Council's election issue, I also... I will explain how I will act in relation to Riga City Council elections. That may be an unpopular opinion. So let's stop playing the theatre that everyone here is politically neutral and that the main principle is who is more professional... I don't care if the most professional person would even be in KIP queues, if he really was objective and professional, which seems impossible to me in today's circumstances, but if he were, I would also vote in favour of it. ( From the UK Group.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U19	Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U20	Hello, colleagues! From the very beginning of our mandate, we faced various problems and situations relating to the National Electronic Media Council. Realizing that politicians cannot interfere with the activities of the Council, it was particularly difficult to observe bad governance and communication from the NEEAP side. The Council has not managed very well with the sector. In society too, the council does not enjoy good reputation at present. On the one hand, this is a very difficult time to join the Council, but on the other hand, it is also the right time to change and improve things. I wish you, Mrs Kalderauskas, and you, Mr Eglišs, endurance, because there will be a lot of work, but there will also be many difficult situations. By answering questions in the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and meeting with the political groups, you talked about your visions, plans, principles and values. We, society, will keep you in your name. I very much hope that when you come from a journalist's environment, you will protect in particular the freedom of expression and editorial freedom and ensure that journalists do not be called a seduce and punished in disciplinary matters for a well-made work in research journalism. I hope that you will work to strengthen and promote democracy while improving the reputation of the NEPT. I call for support for the election.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U21	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U22	Dear colleagues, According to the law, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs was to take responsibility for the promotion of candidates. And let me be honest: when we started working, I also had a certain scepter about whether it would happen and how we could even select. There was a competition, and we also talked to those people who talked about their visions about our plans in several sittings. Today, when I heard from a person who did not attend the commission meeting that everything was politically organized or engaged, I did not just like it; I was surprised because two Members from SASKA took part in the commission. And if, for example, the members of the commission were to say something like that, we could discuss it, but Mr Dombrovskis was not here. He didn't hear or see. I can really assure you that, this time, we were working on human abilities, ability, human responses. When I saw, for example, the competition candidate, Mr Putnis, I think of the human prospects that he... To whom he hopes. He's active in politics. The same was true of Mr. Sergeant. But they had come, they told their vision, and they had the support of the commission. We worked honestly. We chose people who, in our opinion, would be able to work effectively. Today, the Saeima has a duty to support these people. Of course, you will be able to vote 'no', but the question is, if you want the NELP to be able to work effectively, we must all vote 'in favour' of these candidates. And if there are criticisms about the influence of politics, I can only see the impact of a different policy position at the moment: “We will not vote because we do not like it. It is politically unacceptable to us." I ask you to act professionally this time and to support both candidates.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U23	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U24	Good morning! Young Conservatives have been actively talking about the need to strengthen Latvia's information space for some time, I think, at least for the last year. And I see here that it is the NEPLP that plays a major role. There has been a problem with the long-term approach to the Kremlin propaganda channels, which are spreading hate speech both on what is happening in Latvia and on what is happening in Ukraine and perhaps in other countries where citizens want to seek the West instead of Putin. And, of course, it is now a pleasure to hear that the NEPLP has succeeded in taking the first steps in this direction for a child, a baby; this concerns the clarification of the real beneficiaries... at least one company which is responsible for distributing the Kremlin propaganda channels in Latvia. But I do not think that without active action, appropriate active cooperation between organisations from other Baltic countries and perhaps from other European countries and also from Europe, it will be possible to achieve a full result in this case. The NEPLP must operate in such a way that a Latvian state-owned company cannot in any way say that it has put its hand at the distribution of the Kremlin's propaganda by imposing on Latvian citizens... using their monopoly, almost force them to watch at all unintentionally the Kremlin propaganda. ( Milestones.) This applies not only to the state-owned company, but also to all other, also private, businessmen, who, as if because of customer's wishes and as if due to customer demand, ignore national interests, long-term interests of the Latvian State regarding protection of information space. We have recently experienced one of the biggest television sets... more precisely, one of the news preparatory services in Latvia stops working. The Saeima recently had a discussion at the Strategic Communication Sub-Commission, and one of the hypotheses that came out was that it is necessary not only to restrict the transmission of the Kremlin propaganda channels, but also to create as many content as possible in Latvian. Because every person has some interests, he has the right to choose... people have different tastes, and they watch television at different times (I mean, in clock times). Therefore, it is also necessary to think about how we can strengthen the creation of Latvian content in order to strengthen, fill media space with Latvian content. The new Conservatives believe that Latvian citizens will be united on the basis of the Latvian language, and this is why these issues are given special importance. Another problem. I have to think about strengthening broadcasting in the Latgale region in terms of electronic... electromagnetic wave spread. I know that the Ministry of Transport is working actively to ensure (Dep. R. Lochmeles-Lunova’s intermediate call.) as many television towers as possible and reinforce the signals from Riga, so that “Latvijas Radio” and other media can be fully reached in Latgale region, which has been divided in this regard for a long time. But members of the NEPLP must be actively involved in this discussion and be encouraged by all possible means, support must be given in all formats so that any political power in Latvia can understand that it is necessary to invest in this infrastructure, which will ensure the transmission of the media also in the regions of Latvia, not only in Riga. Good luck at work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U25	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U26	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to remind the Members of the New Conservative Party that it is your Minister, the Minister of Transport, who is responsible for the field of electronic communications in Latvia and under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, that there is the Latvian State Radio and Television Centre, which implements radio broadcasting in the territory of Latvia. And your claims against the fact that there is no reception of national radio transmissions in Latgale need to be offered precisely to Mr. Linkaita. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “You listened to what I said or just... ?” ) The second question concerns the nomination of a NEPT member. A lot of things today... a lot has been said about the procedure, about the votes... But, Mr Judin, you may remember what is happening in the meetings of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. We had much to say about the desire of Latvian citizens to defend their country. And, by the way, it was said there was also Russian channel viewers - they are united with Latvians in their desire to defend Latvia. I think people's choice of the kind of broadcasts they watch, let's say the kind of shows... or what movies they like, it does not affect their patriotism. On the contrary, it seems to me that diversity in Latvian media shows that Latvia is a strong country. For example, I was recently in Vienna, Austria, and in one hotel I also found a RT channel. The Austrians are not afraid of Russia Today. A few sounds today (Interior call.) ... some, let us say, observations about the campaign against Latvia and so on. Dear colleagues, give examples, please, of what kind of stories you do not like. If you do not like any kind of broadcasting against Latvia, please have the opportunity to address as Members in the same National Electronic Media Council and implement sanctions against the relevant channel. But I think your speeches today are a false story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U27	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U28	Yeah, a little replica. ( Dep. Mr Ločmele-Lunova: "For the Commission!" ), in my opinion, about that... Regina Lochmele, listen to what I'm talking about, and don't stop, and don't yell. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. “For the Commission!” Regina Lochmele! ( Milestones.) Describing the problem that we have heard here about Russian propaganda channels in a state-owned company, which is the transponder... This problem is on the agenda of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. We have also received a proposal from President Egil Levite. This is all going to happen! This is in principle a step forward. Because we also have the new law... And... who in this hall, I hope, will get in a month... where we'll talk about this, too. So on behalf of the Commission, I am asking to support the election of Ieva Kalderauskas as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U29	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ieva Kalderauskas as a member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 73 (Applause) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Congratulations to Ieva Kalderauskas on election! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Judin gives flowers... Those who don't see it. Okay, yeah... “) Colleagues, let us continue. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Janis Eglitis as a member of the National Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U30	On behalf of the Commission, I would ask to approve the election of Janis Eglitis as a member of the National Electronic Media Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U31	Please... Members therefore want to debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U32	I just wanted to give Mr. Eglitis my wish... As I said before, then I have no doubt about what I have seen that Mr Eglitis has been a very active supporter of Unity and Kariņš. My constituents know very well what I mean about Unity and its supporters (Interview.) , but I will vote in favour of Mr Eglitis. I wish to turn away from these political sympathys and to be neutral in my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U33	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U34	Nothing at all!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U35	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Janis Eglitis as a member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. (Applause) Congratulations to John Eglīte on her election! Congratulations to Ieva Kalderauskas! Go to the advice and start working! (Laughter) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U36	Right away! The sitting has already begun.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U37	Colleagues! Let's keep going. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ulda Augulis from the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ulda Augulis from the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Gundars Dauges from the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Legal Commission of Member Gundars Dauges! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 87, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On withdrawal of Member Armands Krauzes from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Armands Krauzes from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Ulda Plantis to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Ulda Augulis to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Gundars Dauges to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Gundars Dauges to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Member Armands Krauze to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Armands Krauze to the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Armands Krauzes from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Member Armands Krauz from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On election of Member Jānis Dūklavs in the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Election of Member Jānis Dūklavs in the Latvian Delegation of the Baltic Assembly”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We have come under the heading ‘Provisions of draft laws’. Draft law “Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U38	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Good afternoon, Minister. Dear Members, honourable Members, Hello, here we go! I report on the progress of the draft law “Law on the dismissal of Riga City Council” at the Second Reading of the Saeima’s Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. One meeting of the Commission said that this was a historic bill that would be studied for another hundred years. The Commission took note of the objections raised at first reading and held a wide-ranging debate on the draft law within the Commission. To this day three meetings of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission have taken place. In the first two sittings of the Commission there was only one aim of the draft law – to prevent the situation that the Riga City Council allows unlawful action and does not comply with the Waste Management Law, the Law “On Municipalities” and other regulatory enactments – to organise municipal autonomous waste management. To the third commission meeting... The Cabinet of Ministers and on its behalf the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce informed the Commission that the situation has changed significantly and a new legal basis for the dismissal of Riga City Council has emerged. The Riga City Council has not been able to convene four municipal sittings in a row due to the lack of quorum, as a result of which the Riga City Council is the only of 119 municipalities in Latvia that have not adopted the municipal budget. The failure of the council to adopt the budget seriously undermines the implementation of qualitative activities of the municipality. All meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) were well attended. Representatives of various state and municipal institutions, as well as the public took part in the meetings. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce, representatives of this Ministry, the Chairman of Riga City Council Oļegs Burovs and representatives of the Council, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Justice, representatives of the Latvian Municipal Union, representatives of the Central Electoral Commission, representatives of the Citizenship and Migration Affairs Authority, Riga City Council, and representatives of the public and various media. In brief, I will report on what took place at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission meetings and then turn to the examination of the proposals. The first meeting took place on 14 January 2020, when the members of the Commission reviewed the table prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development at the request of the Members, containing the laws and regulations not observed by the Riga City Council. This table is nothing new. It is the most convenient form of structured information included in the annex to the bill. I will remind you of any infringement of the legal provisions maintained until new circumstances have arisen. Violations of the Satversme. Following the announcement of the Competition Council on the interim regulation, the Riga Council did not take any action to ensure the continuity of the provision of the waste management service and not create an anthropogenic disaster related to potential damage to the environment and public health, if the collection and export of municipal waste in the administrative territory of Riga were suspended or significantly impeded on 15 September 2019. Observing the failure of Riga City Council to ensure the performance of its functions in compliance with the Waste Management Law... to solve the situation, in which there were no actions established in regulatory enactments regarding waste management agreements between waste producers and managers and waste managers, and to ensure the right of every citizen to live in a favourable environment, provided that the state cares for the preservation and improvement of the environment, as stipulated in Article 115 of the Satversme. The Riga City Council organised a waste management competition that was contrary to the Waste Management Law and provided for a substantial restriction of competition for a period of 20 years. Violations of the law are also about the municipality... Section 91(1) of the Law “On Municipalities”, Section 8, Section 3, Section 16, Article 18, Article 20 and Paragraph 12 of the Transitional Provisions of the Waste Management Law. Also, the Riga City Council did not decide on its requirement to ensure shared waste management. Violations of the Cabinet Regulations are Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of 2 April 2013 No. 184 “Regulations on separate collection of waste, preparation for re-use, recycling and material recovery” and Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of 3 June 2017 No. 328 Criteria and procedures for assessing the accessibility of the separate collection service for citizens. The Riga City Council has also failed to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court - judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia of 6 December 2012 in the case No. 2012/01-01 The Riga City Council also allowed the situation when the government... that the government had to rescue Riga municipality twice in a row from the threatening waste crisis. At these meetings, Members assessed the arguments of all parties. The arguments and opinions were both in favour and against... all legal arguments. The second meeting took place on 4 February 2020. It dealt with Members' proposals, the content of which will be presented at a later date. The third meeting took place on 12 February 2020 at the request of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, pointing out that the information had changed significantly and that a new basis for the dismissal of Riga City Council had emerged. The majority of the Commission decided to supplement the draft law with a new basis for the dismissal of Riga City Council, which is reflected in the wording of Article 1 of the draft law. In general, I will mention that the members of the Saeima Commission had to take the decision by assessing legal arguments of the Cabinet of Ministers, VARAM, legal arguments of the Riga City Council, arguments of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and arguments of Members and expressed opinions. The legal arguments and the arguments in general were also contrary to what was stated in the argument. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission assessed all arguments. The majority of the Commission relies on the legal analysis carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers, as demonstrated by the votes cast by the Commission. I will also mention that it was not only the debate, but also the overall volume of documents that Members had to consider. A total of 20 proposals have been tabled in the draft law... 19 Proposals 1. is the proposal by Mr Valeria Agešin, Member, that Article 1 of the draft law be excluded.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U39	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U40	Can I bring together the times of the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U41	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U42	Dear colleagues, Almost every lawyer is cautious in his or her strong judgment and a serious assessment cannot be made in a single sentence. I believe that we need to first of all find out what the legitimate purpose of this document, and in particular Article 1, is. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development decided to encourage the release of the Riga City Council of 2017 because, according to the Ministry, the local authority had not been able to perform one of the autonomous functions of the municipality - to ensure the management of municipal waste. In the middle of the lawyer, still... there is still no consensus as to whether this draft law is based on facts or, despite this week... legally incorrect and indecent additions still contain claims. In Article 1 of the draft law, the dismissal of the largest municipality of Latvia is still justified by its inability to organise municipal waste management. Minister Juris Pūce still sees this as a reason. I consider this to be a pretext. The unlegislative excuse for dismissal is still in the text. I believe that the legislative procedure is also not clean. In my view, the Cabinet of Ministers must submit a new draft law for consideration at the Saeima. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has not carefully assessed the clarity of the grounds for dismissal of Riga City Council. Therefore, we still need to be careful to see whether there are risks of conspiracy. Moreover, the government and the Saeima taking place around this draft law do not demonstrate compliance with the principle of good governance. It is also a violation of good law. I would like to remind all those who are preparing for the festival today, perhaps also in glorification, that the dismissal of the Riga City Council is only a final solution, and the members of the Council were elected in legitimate elections, and the will expressed by the elite is an essential element of a democratic society. The dismissal of a citizen's elected representative is regarded as a restriction of the will of the voters, a very serious restriction on the rights of the municipality. To be proportionate to the dismissal of Riga City Council, there must be confidence, I would say, absolute conviction that it will prevent the emergency situation that several people want to discuss and discuss. I see that thinking people do not have such confidence. If the dismissal of the Council does not eliminate the emergency situation, the dismissal does not apply in accordance with the legislation in force, as the dismissal of the Council removes a democratically elected institution. In general, it is a very bad practice - to change the general norm at a time when thinking about one particular situation. Such cases often look bad, wrong and legally incorrect. In addition, no vision has been given of how the interim administration will effectively address the organisation of the municipal waste management function. I think that consistent action by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is necessary, comparing the case of Riga City Council with that of other municipalities, performing or, more precisely, not performing other autonomous functions in accordance with the law “On Municipalities”. It is clear that this discussion also has a broader role to play in encouraging other municipalities to comply with the law, as there are cases where municipalities do not comply with the law. That is absolutely clear. According to the Law on Municipalities, there are also grounds to dismiss other municipalities. Currently only the actions of Riga City Council are evaluated, but almost no assessment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development as the Ministry supervising all activities of municipalities is provided. It is clear that a part of the cheap-believing people with great enthusiasm today will perceive the eviction of the Riga City Council, but in fact it is not the right thing to rejoice and be disappointed. It could be thought that there will now be some great benefit for the Rigans from the dismissal of the Council, but there is no reason to hope that the same, let us say, formations that cover the OIC in the Saeima and in the government and release the railwaymen from work will come to the town hall and behave like angels. Parties that have not been able to win municipal elections in a fair fight are now using their parliamentary powers to reclaim. Moreover, in the Saeima, one part of the present ruling coalition has gained power, in my view, by useless methods, by promising voters all kinds of miraculous things, everything, but in other words by defrauding voters. I believe that the issues of the Riga City Council should be dealt with in a legal way, not as it is now in Parliament. We must assess compliance of Article 1 of the draft law with the principle of democracy enshrined in Article 1 of the Satversme and... from Article 101... the guiding principle of municipal law. I call for the exclusion of Article 1 of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U43	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U44	Hello, colleagues! I believe that a dome that does not want to work and that demonstrates it is forgiving and - as quickly as possible - the better. However, this should be done in a legal way, at least if Latvia really is a legal state to which the rules of law mean something. That is why I have a valid question for the parliamentary coalition: why do you not want to do this? Why do you not want to dismiss the Riga City Council in a legal manner? Why are you doing your utmost to challenge this reason for dismissal? Why do you need this? Why do you choose from the beginning the reason that is most questionable and direct it as the only reason, and insist on it? ( From the NA Group: “Read the Proposal! ” ) Is there no reason to ask the question that in fact you are interested not in the dismissal of the Riga City Council, but in the economic processes in which you want to participate and be the new political roof? And that's why you need it. Why do you even after you really have given this justified reason to dismiss the Riga City Council, when the Riga City Council has demonstrated that they do not want to perform their functions - why do you not even want to do so in a legal way? Why don't you prepare a new bill and you don't come here to the Saeima? Why are you currently waging Latvia again as a legal and democratic state in its very foundations? If you may have forgotten, you can read here on the wall what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia - that Latvia is an independent, democratic republic and that the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia. That means that this bill... We should have decided here at the Saeima. But there is no such draft law. What you did, you... simply the government made its decision and presented it in violation of the principle that the normal democratic state should respect at all - that the Saeima would decide here... debate and decide on it. What did you do? Using the fact that one bill is which you... You realized, however, that you would not now be able to present it as a legal and justified one, and then you decided to put any other norms into this draft law. But, colleagues, when did you do that? When the Saeima has already examined this draft law, when it seems as if all these democratic procedures are formal here in the Saeima, we have gone out. And now you offer something quite different that has not been debated here at all. It is clear to us that this is a gross violation of the rules of law and democracy. You have just spoken about the threat of Russian propaganda! You are now working as a source of Russian propaganda! You are the ones who pose a threat to Russian propaganda here with their actions! Someone here talked about the direction of the West and the direction of Putin. You are now heading towards Putin. Even more! You are not just going in Putin's direction, you are Putin's path indicators right now! ( Internouncing call.) Because even the regimes of our neighbouring countries do not allow anything to do so. They at least formally strive to maintain legal standards, they observe the law, at least formally. You're not even trying to do that! In essence, our country is not... not as a democratic republic currently functions but as a feudal state. This country is divided into individual feudals, each has its own puppet manor. One has been given energy, and he works there, does what he wants, makes afēres. The rest cover everything because it's her... It's their place. And so continue you. From the beginning, I felt amusing by President Levite's suggestion to make a week of democracy in Latvia. But maybe there really is your own logic. (Applause) Perhaps, for at least one week a year, Latvia could be like a democratic country, where we really act, live and judge how this is due in a democratic country. Colleagues, think about what you're doing now! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U45	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U46	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I would not agree with Mr Zarins that even in our eastern neighbourhood, this is not happening. Unfortunately, this is what the Eastern Neighbourhood is doing. And there are different institutions that point to the fact that we have eastern neighbours who do so. It's illegal to cancel... the persons elected have been removed. And the proposal made by Mr Agešin must, in fact, be supported so that we can do our utmost so that this draft law is just as legitimate as possible so that it cannot be challenged in any way; that there is no basis for contesting it. The question of what the Riga City Council has done right now. In a way, the Riga City Council has made every effort to give the government the basis for legitimate dismissal. After the procedure also... If someone tries to challenge this question, then... The draft law must have one legitimate reason; even a hundred reasons may be listed for the dismissal of the Riga City Council, but in essence there must be only one. And now, with government proposals... I think there is no doubt about this that this one proposal has been made. Then the question to the ruling coalition: why do you not take out the legislative proposals on which the issues are at stake? From our Group of the Union of Greens/Farmers, too - if such a correction to the second reading has been tabled, a substantial correction... Of course, the Saeima can do everything - the Saeima can vote, create a legal mechanism. The Saeima really has a very wide mandate, but it is very important to assess how these votes, the demonstration of the power of the Saeima, have been assessed by the Constitutional Court in recent judgments. Those judgments do not need to be searched far. A very popular case (and soon we will come to this case, we will also vote again) on interest rates on forced shared property. Why the Saeima rejects... The Constitutional Court rejects this draft law back to the Saeima and said that these norms are not legal? Only because these rules were incorporated between readings and the procedure was assessed. At this point, behind my laziness or arrogance (it is difficult for me to say what is more important and what has been played; I would rather say arrogance) instead of submitting on the basis of a decision taken by the government, where absolutely all procedures were clearly understandable, to adopt a new law (and not to tell us about administrative burdens, it would be very fast to do), by demonstrating that you really want to legally dismiss the Riga Council, you are simply submitting supplements to the existing law and once again putting this issue really in question. On such an important issue - on an important issue for democracy! - when it comes to the release of elected power, it must take place as legally as possible so that no question is raised in the Saeima. If you had submitted an alternative law, this Saeima would vote unanimously. I don't think colleagues or any kind of... No one... no colleague would question this process at all. Instead of keeping this verse 1, you submit the Government's vision to the second reading, in violation of any normal procedures. I see Mr Bondara sits concerned. You know what I'm talking about. I would not speak if there were not at least three recent judgements of the Constitutional Court specifically on the procedure in which the Saeima reached that decision. This question is now being put directly to the... Having taken... Despite the fact that it is true inside, the question is: how have you come to that right? This is the biggest problem. This proposal, tabled by Mr Agešina, would help you in a way, because it would remove from the very foundations the waste story, from which we simply had to leave. Because the waste story - even the Law Office said that there is no basis for dismissal of Riga City Council. Why are you mixing these two things together - a dubious question with a legal question? There is an illegal question when we come together. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U47	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U48	Dear colleagues, This is indeed a very specific case. I do not even think that there is a Jesuit principle at European values, at our democratic values, that any goal can be justified by the choice of funds. In this case, that is also the case. Mr Agešina's proposal is a place, because it is Article 1 of the draft law that should be precise, exhaustive, democratic and consistent with all the laws. Unfortunately, such reasons do exist, but not what the Cabinet of Ministers and directly the Minister of respect cannot depart from. I understand that it is quite difficult to pull your head out of the waste to look with a fresh eye on the current situation. But this should be done because, first of all, it is the first case of dismissal of the capital council. There could be no doubt here either for legislators or for people living in Riga - citizens, voters - who have elected this idea, and they must have one hundred percent belief that the Saeima is acting legally, fairly, democratically and in good faith. Can I add the proposed version to the following? Not at all. Mr. Valains just said... I myself was unfortunately the Constitutional Court... One of the participants, when we defended the Saeima unanimously, would support the norm on forced rental interest. The Constitutional Court had rejected it solely on the basis of procedural deficiencies (in the view of the Constitutional Court!) . Or, in this case, by adopting yesterday's amendments to the draft law already examined and supported for the second reading... We're supplementing it with... I don't know what and we're creating a kind of crop. Is this the right step and the right course of action? Would something really change if an alternative draft was put forward? Is it really like Mr. Valaini said... Considering that the provisions of Article 91 have indeed been infringed... and there can be no dispute in any way... That the draft law... someone would try to protest or oppose that bill... Not at all! But this time we create procedures for ourselves. The previous discussion on the members of the NEPT was, by the way, very specific, because Mr Feldman had said the main thing that is in the principle of the selection of members. You can be at any level of conviction, but if the NELP does not comply with the settings set by the ruling coalition, it will be released and will be made up of young people, as has already happened. Therefore, here too, we should not now impose any wrong, unlawful and immoral decisions on any price. I would call for support for Mr Agešina's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U49	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “I need to combine in time!” ) It is only time to break. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “Well... “ Then you will talk after a break. (Laughter) The debate will therefore continue after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Dear colleagues, Caution: Our colleague Krišjānis Feldman celebrated her 35th anniversary this week, and we welcome him. (Applause) Name for reading the results of the registration to Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U50	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Inese Ikstena, Ainars Latkovskis... Latkovsky is, Mārtiņš Steins (Interface: Yes!) )... Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U51	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U52	Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Law on the dismissal of Riga City Council”, discussion on proposal 1. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U53	Dear colleagues, This story of the Riga City Council's bill of dismissal is likely to enter history and students of the Faculty of Law will be presented as a very interesting, peculiar legislative wedding. Because, too... Legal as well (Dep. J. Iesalnieks: “At least interesting to study!” )... This is the only benefit in fact that this law will bring. For research it will be very useful material, as also the employees of the Legal Bureau will end in horror each time they hear the connection of the words - the Riga City Council's draft law on dismissal. And that's true. Because, of course, the terrible formation that Mr Pouce has prepared, I think, has never seen before by lawyers. And that's also what it says... The only benefit of this draft law is for scientific research purposes. But in general, I want to say this... all this story is even worse than itself... about the story of Riga City Council itself. Because we are now seeing very well the objective of party financing, the objective of the rapid adoption of the law on the financing of these political organisations (partys). We see that medical salaries have now been replaced by beautiful posters on which Mr. Stakis is going. That's one. Second. This draft law also led to the absolutely irrational adoption of two laws regarding Riga... the term of the municipal extraordinary elections. Now, when Mr Levite announced these two laws, he will have to go beyond what he said at the Birini Palace at a conference of lawyers when Mr. Levite said that the democratic elections (the head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) ... that democratic elections must not exceed five years. But at the moment, Mr Levit will have to make a very difficult choice and publish a law that provides for a term of office of up to six years in the case of municipal reelection. And that is what you wish your dear President, honourable colleagues, to declare such a law contrary to your convictions. Finally. Of course, there is also a story about the Riga City Council itself and the fact that there are obviously very kind people in the Riga City Council. Riga City Council has kind people. The most kind person in the Riga City Council is the Mayor of Riga. ( Internouncing call.) Mayor Oļegs Burovs is the most kind person in the Riga City Council, because a kind person, seeing how terrifying the draft law on the dismissal of the Riga City Council is, and the way in which Mr. Puce, along with the entire coalition, entered into the huge ouses, trying to crumble the giraffe with the wild boar in this bill... Mr Burov has decided to help Mr Pouce to solve this problem with his enormous kindness and indignity. But also in this situation, when these kind people have forgiven themselves, so that it would be more convenient for Mr. Puce to complete this story of Riga City Council - you, honourable colleagues from the coalition, do not know how to use this kindness properly. Because, as my colleagues have already said, you should really have prepared this bill again, passed through the government and submitted to the Saeima. But, I understand, you have very much concerns about the fact that this government can also break down by next week. Therefore, in order for you to be able to run this draft law out of the nations, you want to stick him to the previous draft law and thus try to create something at the moment. But... You do not really know how to take advantage of the wonderful opportunity that Mr. Burv has given you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U54	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Mr. Gobzem will not talk. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission... Oh, I'm sorry! ( Internouncing call.) Looks like you pushed... refusal... So Mr. Gobzem had applied and (Interior call.) ... He had applied. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I had applied!” ) Okay, let's think it's a system error this time. ( Milestones.) Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Interface: “What is the system’s error? ” ) you were allowed to do so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “He himself is a system error!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U55	If it's fair, Jutta Strique just... of course did not hold back and said that I was a system error (interim.) - Yeah. She will move to the post of Mayor of Riga to the biggest, in my opinion, corruption coverr in Riga City Council - Jušas, because his friend Americas set up his wife in a free port so that their corruption could be covered and received four thousand per month. That is the system of which I am wrong, which revealed it! It should start with it. I really didn't want to let you out, I wanted to praise you like that, but it happened a little bit different. I will vote in favour of the release of the Riga City Council - and not because the right forces are coming now that Jaunupas will now come and will not go. Can you imagine a situation where the young man does not chart anything? Such situations are simply impossible. That is absolutely clear. I will not start in the Riga City Council elections either, allowing (Minimum: “Ooo!” )... allowing Mr Stakis to win because I will vote in favour of Mr Stakis. And I'll also explain why. ( Internouncing call.) Actually, if I had a chance... If I had a chance... I believe that Maris Kučinskis should become the chairman of Riga City Council. ) - and not because (interim.) ... not because he is from the ZZS, and not because... Before the elections, I criticised him as a place of Lemberg... But because he's almost the only one in this hall... Unlike you really are a wise man (interface.) and really is an economic man. And I believe that this system of parties has exhausted itself (Interface.) , but if I had the opportunity to vote in favour of a person, I would vote in favour of Maris Kučinski. I also believe that in this election, in principle, which will be an extraordinary election, it will win and win it because you are all weak. You have Riga Mayor's candidate Ķirsis, Unity. There's no weaker man in the world! He was afraid, and I was not taken over last summer just because he was cowardly. He is already unable to manage the Riga City Council. National Association (Interface: “On the proposal!” ) - they have nominated Ansi Pūpolas as the mayor of Riga City Council. It's not just not serious, it's even funny! They don't believe in such a thing. Why do you lie to the voters as a party that Ansis Pūpols will ever be the Mayor of Riga? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “On the proposal!” ) Do not lie!) Also, Robert Zile, whom you're putting, who... In the backstage, he always said: “I don’t want to be a Prime Minister.” Tell me honestly that you don't have a mayor's position, and join with the Jupiter, put up some of the same Jušas, even though Pupol is, of course, better, because it's more funny. (Laughter) I will vote for the Staci not because he is a landguard, father, that he looks good on the posters and... and there's a table. I also think that Mr. Staķis does not believe today that he is a real candidate for the mayor of Riga. He has not believed in himself. Today he is also just a card on posters. But objectively he is the best mayor of Riga, who has been nominated for this moment. ( Internouncing call.) And that's why... Although I could not, of course, drink, I am sorry, I could not drink as much as some Members to vote for Development/About! ( Interface: “A blow out? ” ), but objectively - objective! - Mr. Stakis, as a man from the applicant mayors, is just stronger than the others. And I believe that, as the party system has exhausted itself, it is necessary to vote in favour of the people. I would also vote, by the way (Interface.) ... I would also vote in favour of... wanting you there is always a lingering “Condition” that it is... that it's illegal and like...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U56	Mr Gobzem, on proposal 1 (Dep. A. Gobzems: “It’s about Riga City Council... "; the intermediate sentence: "On the proposal!" )... Please return for proposal 1...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U57	This is also in favour of proposal 1. ( Interface: “No, no! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U58	‘Delete Article 1 of the draft law.’ I remind you of the proposal 1. Please debate the proposal. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U59	Why did you stop me?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U60	Please debate the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U61	You know, you only have the right to stop me if I am not talking about dismissal of Riga City Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U62	You are not talking about the proposal at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U63	Mrs. Moore! Mrs. Moore! ‘ The rights and obligations to be exercised shall be carried out by virtue of good faith.’ ( Interfaces: “Disable the microphone! ” Noise in the hall.) It is written in Article 1 of the Civil Law. This is what you have to follow.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U64	Please debate the proposal. I ask you to do this again. The proposal is Article 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U65	So it is necessary to vote on the dismissal of Riga City Council... to vote for the reason that the Riga City Council has “forgiven” itself. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “On the proposal!” ) But... but it is important to emphasise - importantly emphasize - that the public does not believe you to anyone that you are now saying that the Riga City Council should be released, that there is corruption and the like. You cannot even prepare this proposal properly. It's... It is proof that the public considers this system of political parties to be bankrupt. You should just come with a new law and say: “The dome voted three times for its dismissal, and so we forgive the thought... Let's release." But I will vote in favour of the dismissal of Riga City Council, because I find these political games ridiculous. It seems funny to me that you're blaming these games, even though you're exactly like them. I find these games funny because you are saying that there will be no corruption now. I would therefore like to give Mr Staķis the opportunity to prove that he will cancel his gambling in Riga, that he will not be a young puppet, that he will not give up the waste business to his party members or acquaintances, Mr Kokorevičs and so on. I think we need to start talking about the fact that we need to elect the most powerful people, not the intrigues of parties. ( Milestones.) Thank you for listening carefully. And thank you, Mrs Mourniece, for trying to stop me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U66	There are no elections. The Riga City Council has not yet been dismissed. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U67	Talking about systemic errors. Colleagues! There will be a vote on this proposal right away, and it is your duty, if you really believe that you are acting legally and democratically, to come here and justify why you do not support this proposal why you do not want to remove the aim of the bill, which has neither legal nor realistic physical grounds. That's not the case. Neither did you ever come here and explain why you want to implement... Riga City Council in an illegal, non-democratic manner. What you are doing now is, in fact, the government decided, in violation of all the procedures, that they simply want to do so and use the Saeima as a blind voting machine. You will now confirm this with this vote, because, in essence, yesterday evening, we did not see a table of the draft law on which we should vote. Consequently, the draft law, which must be seen as a matter of urgency, is normally dealt with in two readings, giving Members the opportunity to get to know, then to debate these proposals, and to make their own proposals. It was all bypass. A procedure not even used by Putin was established. And in this way you now want to release the thought. What will that give you? Come here and tell me. If you cannot say that, you simply acknowledge that you have created Latvia as a legal and democratic state as a fiction. I invite you to... dispel this claim. If you can't do that, then I think it will be one powerful basis for challenging this decision after that.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U68	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, which can be explained about proposal 1? ( From a political group, ‘ I have to vote in favour! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U69	In the Commission, proposal 1 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U70	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mr Agešina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U71	2. - The Commissioner's proposal, John Adamson. It provides for the wording of Article 1 of the draft law as follows: "Article 1. The purpose of this law is to comply with the decision taken by the National Association at the party congress in December 2018 on the dismissal of the Riga City Council.’ This proposal is not supported by the Commission. (Laughter) (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U72	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - A motion from Member Adamson! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U73	3. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. It provides for the wording of Article 1 of the draft law as follows: "Article 1. The purpose of this Law is to prevent the situation that Riga City Council performs the autonomous function of the municipality – to organise municipal waste management, and to ensure that a new procurement of waste management services for the same service providers is implemented, but under the political supervision of the Saeima Coalition of Power. This law is adopted in accordance with ‘the principles of uncompromising justice’ and cannot therefore be considered illegal, irrespective of the grounds on which it is based’. There is no support in the Commission. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U74	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U75	Yeah, colleagues. I suggest that I call things in the right words. Why was there an urgent dismissal of the Riga City Council, while the Riga City Council itself had not given this reason? And why was that the reason needed? For, as we know, there were very many reasons for the public debate. That's all... any reasons were not mentioned why the Riga City Council should be dismissed. Including corruption, which does not appear in this bill for some reason. We called on our colleagues to include it, but they did not want it. That is why I prepared this amendment in the draft law, in which we honestly record why this Riga City Council is actually being dismissed. That this waste cover is being used... that it is only necessary to create a new political roof and, in principle, for the Rigas to envy everything that has already been, simply under another political cover. And here I appeal to those who told me that they're out trying to fight the waste mafia. You are currently preparing a new roof for this waste mafia. Then it turns out that you fought with that waste mafia only so that you could be their new roof. Because, in essence, it is why the draft law contains such a justification... What you've included. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “How did you chart all the time?” ) And since you could not give any legal basis for your action, I offer you a way out how you can write the grounds. We are introducing the principle that you have declared yourself - 'uncompromising justice' - which means no compromise with the rule of law! Here we cannot discuss the rule of law as such, but we simply declare it: this is an uncompromising rule of law, so no justice debate is needed and not needed either. That's what you're doing physically. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmits is applauding.) Therefore, colleagues, I hope that you will support this proposal because it is in principle consistent with your philosophy, your concept and your understanding of the rule of law and democracy in this country... and for honesty too, by the way. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U76	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “The varsa of beautiful thieves is the last one that could... “Go out of the pub and speak.” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U77	I want to apologize right away. Given that Mrs Mūrniece has not prepared a speech to me that I can speak, I will try my own words. (Laughter) I figured out why the thought was going to be fired. You have noticed that UKP always talks about the fact that everywhere else in oligarchs, huh? The Latvians have a saying: catch the thief! Who usually says that? Those who act in silence usually shout the least. Why did I call the BIP? Who has been the advisor to Andra Scule? That not Fare Linkait of the UKP has been a long-standing adviser to the oligarch Andra Scheule? Maybe... Which has a waste business interest in Riga? Isn't it just Andris Skelem? Therefore, it is quite clear why the UKP is very loud in the interests of the oligarchs, because it is fully in line with what the Latvian people say - catch the thief! You shout the least, so that in silence you can do anything about all this and probably fulfil Andra Šķele's interests in the name of an old friendship. Come on, get up... and say it all! That's the first thing. The second thing. If we are about those oligarchs and return to Riga... I have to go back again (now the repetition is of course the mother of knowledge) to the right relationship with Andris America. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” “Something New!” ) So Jušas’ wife at the Freeport for four thousand euros without a competition... It is not possible without Andra America and Jušas chating around the corners, if, somewhere. It's simply impossible! Well, everyone understands that. So, in fact, what the UKP wants to achieve is to continue the interests of Andra America in the Riga City Council, so she's already being driven into that mayor. How else are they? ... How will they be implemented otherwise? ( Interface: “What is in the pipe? ” ; dep. S. Riekstins: “Good stuff, Aldi! Don’t change the dealer!” ) That is the next thing. The third thing. If we are talking about the interests that you want to strengthen. The national association, you say that the "conciliation" must be thrown out. Member Teirumnieks - a very pleasant person for me - really very much! - I like it. ( Internouncing call.) Dear name! No, really! I say that with my heart. I'm looking at the Saeima canteen... I'm looking at the Saeima canteen - he's constantly communicating with Janis Krishan from SASKAN. Keep going! ( Internouncing call.) Something's not clean! ( The ring of noise.) I think you want a "Condition"... Get a “conciliation” in this way, in hidden form, back in that council of Riga. That's the third thing. The fourth thing. Development/About! Well for the young man everything is clear if, there (interfaces: “Vote!” ), I think there are no problems. For Development/About! everything is clear. Development/About! There is already actually only a “Signal” satellite, because when you need a voice, Paviluts is the first one at Urbanovich. It's always! Everywhere! Therefore, I have a deep conviction that, although the Riga City Council needs to be dismissed, it is absolutely clear that, after the Riga City Council has been dismissed, those who have to win will win the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U78	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U79	Dear colleagues, Indeed, Mr Zarina's proposal is welcome. Why? First, it provides that the purpose of the law is implemented with this proposal here and the Riga City Council is dismissed. Secondly, instead of legal arguments, the main argument is that it is really an uncompromising sign of the rule of law, and I feel that it is already an exhaustive argument to move forward and to adopt this law as a whole. Thirdly. Even in the interview for Latvian Television today, Jansons has already said that in principle the issue we are discussing today has been raised and supported at the Congress of the National Association as a decision of the Congress. The previous proposal is therefore also in place, because it is simply... things are referred to in the correct words. Why are we afraid of the truth? If it is true, it is to be supported. If the objective is to be achieved by such a proposal, this is to be supported. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U80	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U81	3. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. There is no support in the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Ai, ai, ai!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U82	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U83	4. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is drawn up on the basis of a letter received by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, and encourages to express Article 1 of the draft law “The Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law” as follows: “Article 1. Taking into account that: 1) the Riga City Council is unable to take decisions due to the fact that more than half of the total number of members of the relevant City Council (point 4 of the first paragraph of Article 91 of the Law “On Municipalities”) has not participated in three consecutive sittings, 2) allows unlawful action and does not comply with the Waste Management Law, the Law “On Municipalities” and other legal acts – organise municipal waste management (point 1 of the first paragraph of Article 91 of the Law “On Municipalities”), the Saeima releases Riga City Council.” This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U84	Let's start a debate. Name of Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U85	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Highly honored Saeima! The parliamentary order roll really gives the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers an opportunity to debate each proposal in a very, very detailed manner. However, a number of proposals submitted for second reading are obviously not meant seriously, with the intention of actually improving the draft law. But I will use this proposal from the committee responsible, which was put forward and mandated by the Cabinet to present me to the commission responsible at its Tuesday meeting this week... as a reason to actually explain the circumstances to which we have come to decide on an additional legal basis for the dismissal of Riga City Council. This proposal is the most important article of the draft law. It is clear, in fact, that apart from Article 1, the rest of the draft law has no meaning. The other articles of the draft law address further the question of functioning before the elections and the conduct of the elections. I will therefore also take the opportunity, when discussing this proposal, to conceptually outline the whole legal and political context in which the decision is taken. At first, for reasons. When I speak about today's draft law on the dismissal of Riga City Council, I have to start with a comparison that might seem too dramatic for someone, but when I get to know the details carefully, I regret that this is not the case. Like the dictators of third countries who, after long unmistakable rule, corruption scandals and economic disaster escape from exile, the former mayor of Riga in Brussels does not see his fault in the situation of Riga, the capital of Latvia. Just like Idi Amin: everyone else is guilty - political opponents, foreign interventions, Americans. In Riga, Ushakov had established his kingdom with vassals, who each managed and managed their own industry. The fact that everything was wrong in the kingdom could have been felt long ago, but the full extent of the sad picture was revealed after the forced escape of the honorable plague to Brussels. It has long been that it is arbitrary to place the most obedient in the leading positions in Riga municipality, often without a competition or without any other intelligible selection procedure. It has, of course, developed a culture of governance that has no meaning for quality; it has no meaning for legal decision making; however, there is respect for obedience; it has respect for decisions that satisfy the owner. Now that the owner is no longer present, some have become independent, while others, without the owner’s supervision, are unable to take a step without making a current mistake. Ushakov himself reported recently in Twitter: in Europe, the only cases in which a municipality has been abandoned have been related to the mafia. Not long before this announcement, he wrote: In Riga, Mata Hari, who, for 10 years, has been carrying money... Interestingly, why has the former mayor of Riga not been concerned about these money coffers for these 10 years? Why is he not worried about where and why the Mat Hari collectives hit? But the excitement has only now appeared. It's been these 10 years that we've paid dearly. The streets are in a catastrophic state. ‘ Riga Traffic” transports passengers more... several times more expensive than in Vilnius or Tallinn. But, talking about the mafia. In the Riga Central Market, alcohol and cigarettes are illegally marketed for years. ‘ Instead of managing something, cheating on square meters and paying consultants, kindergarten rows are not solved, social workers, teachers, municipal police officers have no money, but a historical sculpture in Vērmanes Garden is transformed into a jacuzzi. Instead of solving problems, the Riga City Council sits with teachers who object to enforcement of laws. This list could be continued for a long time, but I think that only a few of those present will not notice that, to put it mildly, everything is not good in Riga. The first step to stop the further decline of Riga was taken last year, by blocking the chairman of the Riga City Council, Nilu Ušakova, from his post for violations under the supervision of the municipal company “Riga traffic”. Although Ushakov himself claimed that he had been unduly suspended, he chose to flee to Brussels. It is now time to take the next step and restore the actual and legal capacity of Latvia's largest municipality. To regain credibility to this institution, to return Riga to the path of growth, freeing from the previously established opaque model of poor governance. In view of the violations found, it is time to dismiss Riga City Council. Article 91 of the Law “On Municipalities” establishes the right for the Saeima to dismiss the municipal council only in certain cases, as well as the procedure to be followed. According to the law, only the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to propose the dismissal of the council, and on 17 December 2019 the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decision on the dismissal of the Riga City Council, directing the draft law to the Saeima. The Cabinet concluded with it a legal test carried out within the framework of the Cabinet of Ministers on whether Riga Municipality’s actions in the field of municipal waste management were in compliance with the law. In fact, according to the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, Riga City Council allows unlawful action and does not comply with the autonomous function of the municipality established by the Waste Management Law, the Law “On Municipalities” and other regulatory enactments, thus also denying the rights guaranteed to the residents of Riga in the Constitution. The draft law “The Riga City Council Dismissal Law” has been prepared, evaluating the actions of the Riga City Council, performing this function on the organization of municipal waste management. The assessment of the actions of the current elections is also subject to the actions of previous elections of the Riga City Council, taking into account that the Riga City Council, since 6 December 2012, adopted a judgment in the case on point 12 of the transitional provisions of the Waste Management Law, until now has not ensured proper implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court. Pursuant to a decision of the Constitutional Court, where a municipality and municipal waste manager have concluded or extended an agreement on waste management after 26 July 2005, without applying regulatory acts on public procurement, the said agreement shall be terminated not later than by 1 July 2013. The judgment of the Constitutional Court concerns agreements concluded by Riga City Council with waste management companies, because they were concluded without applying regulatory acts on public procurement, and the duration of concluded agreements did not comply with the said regulatory acts. However, these contracts continued to be in force until 15 September 2019. Our Ministry - the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development - in its letter of 19 July 2019 indicated to the Riga City Council the findings of non-compliances and invited the Riga Council to decide to plan and implement measures for the management of waste management system issues and the arrangement of the provision of services related to waste management. I would remind you that according to the provisions of the Waste Management Act, the municipality has in fact two main responsibilities. Firstly, to issue binding rules on the management of municipal waste in their administrative territory by establishing a division of this area into waste management areas. Secondly, to organise all municipal waste management in its administrative territory in accordance with the municipal binding regulations on municipal waste management. On 31 July 2018, the Riga City Council together with the municipality’s “Getliņi EKO” announced the procurement for the provision of services in the whole administrative territory of Riga as a single area in the framework of the public-private partnership procedure. However, the binding regulations of Riga City Council currently in force - December 17, 2013 Regulations No. 90 - established that Riga Municipality is divided into three waste management zones. Accordingly, the Riga City Council’s actual actions were contrary to the Waste Management Law. Consequently, with the publication of this procedure, competition was significantly restricted over a long period of time, given that the contract was concluded for a maximum period of 20 years. The Riga City Council did not address the issue on the requirements included in regulatory enactments regarding provision of shared waste management service and access to the appropriate service throughout the city area for all residents according to the Waste Management Law and the two regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Since the obligation to provide the waste management service was not fulfilled by the requirements of regulatory enactments, Riga City Council, which started its work on 22 June 2017, was obliged to ensure compliance with these requirements. In a letter of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, we pointed out the findings of non-compliances, invited the Council to take a decision, amend binding regulations, plan a procurement procedure that complies with the requirements of the law. However, as part of the procedure, the municipality chose a manager who opened the contract procedure contrary to the binding provisions. The result of this procedure... In addition, in the situation... The Competition Council adopted its decision of 9 September on the interim settlement leading to the suspension of the contracting process. But already before taking this decision, the Competition Council warned about the legal consequences of Riga on several occasions. Riga City Council chose to ignore the warnings of the Competition Council. It has now been said in the discussions (including the committee responsible) that the decision of the Competition Council should be regarded as force majeure (force majeure) - there was no way of avoiding. In a situation in which, within one year, the municipality receives three warnings from the Competition Council that it does not operate in compliance with the law, it would have been significantly overstated. In addition, following the announcement of the Competition Council on the interim resolution, the Riga City Council did not take any action to ensure the continuity of the provision of the waste management service and do not pose an anthropogenic disaster related to potential damage to the environment and public health, if the collection and export of municipal waste from the administrative territory of Riga were suspended or significantly impeded on 15 September 2019. Having regard to the failure of the Riga City Council to ensure the performance of its functions and the self-call of the Riga City Council expressed to the Ministry to resolve the situation, the Cabinet of Ministers, in order to ensure the rights guaranteed to the citizens of Riga in Article 115 of the Satversme, adopted at its meeting on 12 September an order to declare the emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga. The Saeima approved this decision, but after the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, Riga City Council, which was appointed in this order as the responsible institution for ensuring the emergency situation, did not take any action to initiate the choice of waste managers - in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement and the requirements of the Waste Management Law – throughout this three-month period. According to the Waste Management Law, waste producers and managers must conclude an agreement on municipal waste management with the waste manager who has concluded an appropriate agreement with the municipality. On the other hand, the Riga City Council has stated that the obligation to conclude these contracts is imposed only in one case. And this is contrary to the requirements of regulatory enactments on waste management. Within three months, the Riga City Council did not eliminate the legal conditions that led to the announcement of the emergency situation. The Cabinet was therefore forced to extend the declared emergency for a further period of three months - until 12 March 2020. On 11 November 2019 the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development issued a negative opinion on the binding regulations adopted by Riga City Council on 30 October 2019 indicating that they do not comply with the requirements of the law. On 5 December 2019 the Riga City Council submitted to the MoEPRD the updated binding rules and objections to the MoEPRD opinion on the binding rules of the Riga City Council. Binding regulations were published in an official publication, but by order of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the binding provisions were suspended two paragraphs - those which are contrary to the requirements of the regulations. The Riga City Council has not challenged this Order. Hence, the rules in question have become obsolete. Apparently, the Riga City Council will do them... has been recognised as a reasoned order of the VARM. But until now the Riga City Council has not amended binding regulations to comply with statutory requirements. In this context, VARAM considers that there are grounds for dismissing the Riga Municipal Council, as significant violations have been committed several times and repeatedly during the entire period of the relevant municipal council's term. It is therefore clear that the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, when conducting hierarchical monitoring of the local government and the President of the Council, must respond appropriately to the threat of democracy and the rule of law, and must address the threat. Having assessed the abovementioned violations, the Ministry officials came to the conclusion that there are grounds to believe that it is necessary to use the mechanism established by the Law “On Municipalities” to dismiss the Riga City Council, because otherwise it is not possible to ensure that such violations would not be repeated in the activities of the Riga City Council and that the activities of the Council would be implemented in compliance with the requirements of regulatory enactments. The officials of the Ministry have concluded that the activities of the Riga City Council are not only illegal, but also inconsistent with the interests of local society and contribute to the public's lack of confidence in the local government's ability to work legally and in the interests of local people in general. Thus, a draft law on the dismissal of Riga City Council was drafted (the head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) , and on 17 December 2019 it was examined and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers; on 19 December it was also examined and supported at first reading by the Saeima. In addition... Already in the beginning of February of this year, 2020, the political situation in the Riga City Council has changed substantially and a new additional foundation has emerged, a separate basis for the dismissal of the Riga City Council. On 5 February 2020, due to the lack of quorum, two more convened meetings of Riga City Council took place and 6 February. In total, due to the lack of quorum there have not been four sittings of Riga City Council in a row, thus the Cabinet of Ministers had legal reason to assess... re-assess the dismissal of the Riga City Council and submit the draft law on dismissal of the municipal council to the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia in accordance with Section 91, first paragraph, paragraph 4, of the Law “On Municipalities”, establishing the circumstances set out therein. In particular, the Council is not in a position to take decisions, given that three consecutive meetings do not take part in more than half of the total number of members of the Council concerned. The draft law on the dismissal of the Riga City Council had not yet been reviewed by the Saeima at the final reading, therefore, in order to organise effectively the work of the public administration and constitutional bodies instead of issuing another separate law on the dismissal of the Riga City Council with the same... with the irregularities detected in 2020, this... new irregularities... The Cabinet of Ministers has invited to supplement the draft law submitted to the Saeima for consideration with a new basis for dismissal of Riga City Council, without changing other grounds and provisions of the law previously supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. Latvian state administration system consists not only of direct government institutions, but also of derived public persons, including municipalities. ‘ State administration’ is a legal concept which covers all institutions to which the Law on State administration equipment applies. It covers both public authorities - direct government - and derived public persons and their institutions. Local governments are part of the public administration system. Article 58 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia provides that state administration institutions are subordinate to the Cabinet of Ministers. In accordance with this norm, all activities of the executive power that have not been transferred to other constitutional institutions or autonomous state administration institutions specifically exempted from subordination to the Cabinet of Ministers have been transferred within the competence of the Cabinet. The local administration has not been transferred to other constitutional institutions and has not been specifically exempted from subordination to the Cabinet of Ministers, therefore the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia has concluded that the local administration is under the authority and competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. Section 8(4) of the Law on State Administration Structure provides: “The municipality, when performing functions of the state administration, which have been transferred to its autonomous competence in accordance with the law, is under the supervision of the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the procedure and scope of the Law “On Municipalities”. When exercising the right of subordination over municipalities, the Cabinet of Ministers may submit to the Saeima a draft law on dismissal of municipal council in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 91 of the Law “On Municipalities”, establishing the circumstances specified therein. With this bill... The Cabinet of Ministers has assessed the fact that there are two separate legal bases for the dismissal of the municipal council... In the case of the municipality of Riga. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which within the framework of the law supervises activities of municipalities, prepared this conclusion, it was supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, and was supported by the responsible Saeima Commission yesterday. We have previously discovered several violations of the laws and regulations in the work of Riga Municipality, which I mentioned earlier in my speech. The violations were committed on several occasions and systematically throughout the period of the elected Riga City Council in the elections of 2017 in local governments. The violations that continue in Riga City Council indicate the inability to take the decisions necessary to ensure and develop the activities of Riga Municipality. Such failure of the council hinders the ability of the municipality to provide services to the population. I would remind the high Saeima that the municipal council is not only an institution of political management according to laws and regulations; it is also an administrative institution to which laws and other laws impose duties in the context of administrative procedure, including the obligation to adopt legal acts binding on individuals, administrative acts aimed directly at individuals. At present, the paralysis of Riga City Council's activities hinders the right of individuals to protect their interests in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. These are constitutional rights of private individuals, which are not currently respected by the Riga City Council. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has also established that the Riga City Council has not adopted binding regulations on the municipal budget for 2020. From 119 municipalities only Riga City Council has not managed to adopt this year's budget. This is another proof that the council of this term is not capable of acting in the public interest. The failure of the council to adopt the budget seriously undermines the normal activities of the municipality and any development. The annual municipal budget must be drawn up and submitted for approval to the municipal council not later than within two months after the announcement of the annual state budget law. The national budget for 2020 was announced on 28 November 2019. As a result, 28 January 2020 was the last day that the Council President had to submit a draft budget to the Council, but this was not done. Article 15 of the Law “On Municipal Budgets” provides that the chairman of the municipal council shall be responsible for ensuring that the annual municipal budget is drawn up and submitted for approval to the council not later than within two months after the announcement of the annual state budget law, and for the organisation and management of the municipal budget implementation process in accordance with the Law on Budget and Financial Management. However, in view of the situation that due to the lack of quorum there have not been four sittings in Riga City Council, consideration of issues related to the budget of Riga Municipality is not possible; this in turn may have a significant impact on the development of Riga city, implementation of further planned initiatives. The political situation at the Riga City Council demonstrates the long-standing political instability and the inability to make decisions important to the municipality, and neither is it expected ( Dep. I. Zariņš: “Yes!” ) Council’s capacity for work in this term could be restored. This is also reflected in the public statements by the group leaders elected to the Riga City Council and the chairman of the Riga City Council. The crisis did not develop in the Riga City Council on one day. Improperty, poor governance and injustice over 10 years have led to this crisis. Unfortunately (and I really say from all my heart - unfortunately!) At the moment, the only way to end the crisis is to release the Riga City Council, which was elected in June 2017, and to hold extraordinary elections. It is precisely this long-standing type of farming or, to be more precise, non-management that the capital of Latvia has now come to a group of small towns in Spain and Italy, where municipal councils have been dismissed this millennium. The long-standing scandals of corruption, the inability to deal with problems, the failure to comply with the law have joined in the inability to adopt the budget and even hold sittings. It is also necessary to conclude that under these circumstances the Riga City Council is not able to work the remaining term and should be released. If previously the Riga City Council has performed its duties poorly, the situation is now that the Riga City Council is not able to perform its duties at all. I invite the Members present to understand the seriousness of the situation and to support this proposal, to support this bill and to vote in favour of the dismissal of Riga City Council, without making minor short-term political gains higher than the development and future of the capital of Latvia. I call on you to be responsible and to support this draft law in its entirety as well. Riga City Council must be released on the basis of the legal arguments referred to above regarding the sittings convened by the Riga City Council due to the lack of quorum and the draft budget of the municipality for 2020, which has not been submitted for approval in accordance with the procedure and time limits laid down by regulatory enactments, on the previously legally established multiple violations in the area of waste management and on the clearly demonstrated inability to work in the interests of Rigars, and on the currently legally clearly established failure of Riga City Council to comply with its obligations in general. Request to support the Commission's proposal Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U86	I thank the Minister for his detailed explanation. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U87	Hello, colleagues! The Minister spoke about a poor governance model. It must be said that with this draft law, the Minister himself demonstrates the same model of bad governance. But it would be so simple - there are three times no meetings of Riga City Council. There would be one correct, good draft law, supported by the government, and then we would support it in the Saeima. It would be simple, because even in Burov yesterday's sitting asked for him to be released, because even he understands that it is impossible to work, it is impossible to work because of the opposition, especially for Development/About! and the stars of New Unity Zeep and Cherse... they talk about the importance of defending the interests of Rigans. What a great disaster that the budget has not been adopted! Now it's crazy what color the fountain's painted! But they are not interested in the interests of Rigars at all. Because if they really cared about it, they would do it at the time when it was possible to take over power in Riga. They would also now try to create a coalition and work and adopt a budget. No, what they want - they want to implement the sociological forecasts. There are surveys that show good results: if there were elections to Riga City Council now, you could get a proper mandate. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) And this is also the real reason for all this exercise (Applause.) Why is this bill trying to pick up left ear with the right hand? ( Internouncing call.) Again. If one funny bill had been made, both the Legal Bureau would support it, and Bondars would probably have had their shameful legal crèche with the Waste Management Act embedded in a thoroughly deep drawer, and we would all forget and not mention. I think that what needs to be considered by the coalition - just as you are now engaged in mastery with this bill, you can also come out with the Riga City Council elections. Because the Latvian parties have not yet been able to agree on a single list (Interface from the UK Group.) and, most likely, those existing Riga hosts for this reason (Interface.) will get better results than you would like. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U88	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U89	Madam President, Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! I will have to answer three questions. The first is whether it is legally correct. I asked a question to the Legal Office, or what... Yesterday... whether what we do with the purpose of the law is correct. Answer: “Yes, it is correct.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.) Second. Yesterday, yesterday! - I asked Oļeg Burov: “If he had a chance to “sleep”, would he let that thought go?” You know what the answer was? ‘ Yes, I would forgive this idea!” What? What are you opposed to if this man wants to fire... Even the mayor himself wants to release this idea! Then I asked a representative of the Council opposition (the only one who was present) to Viesturs Zeps: “Would the opposition also support dismissal?” ‘Yes, support’. A by (Interim) ... a What are you opposed to? What is the resistance movement going on today? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Who resists?” ) Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U90	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Regina, well, no!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U91	Hello, colleagues! I hope that Mr Bondara will once again have the desire to "sleep", because to talk from the floor about such a serious issue in such a style - it is simply ridiculous. Mr Pouce's speech reminded me today of the fact that the timing of the pre-elections has really taken place. Your party is already in full swing... We can see this in Riga, where Development/About! (Interface from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J. Pūce.) has already started pre-election campaign outside... Law on Election Aggregation. More. Your argument that the Council is unable to adopt the budget. You know perfectly that it's the mayor Burov who didn't call... has not unlawfully convened a meeting of the Council on the approval of the budget. And about this yesterday, the Riga City Council’s “Sanction” group called for you to dismiss the Mayor of Riga Mr. Burov. There was no even minimal public response on your part, let alone an administrative act. And there were many retro moments in your speech that also showed that you were even boring about preparing for today's sitting, not to mention the preparation of legal arguments. What prevented you from really preparing a new bill? We know that sometimes the Saeima can set records in terms of law making. And for “development / for!” It has already been shown to us once. ( Internouncing call.) The legal technique can be grinding both in this Saeima and in... I hope that, in future, we will also be able to make sure of this - and not just once. But it is really ridiculous: the essence of this proposal is to put together one unlawful argument (as pointed out by the Legal Office) with one really legal one, which no one disputes. It is another proof for only one - it is about changing power in the Riga Council, that extraordinary elections take place at the end of April. And why? Mr Pouce spoke about this himself in one of his public speeches when he mentioned a few dates of May. And these are also political considerations. And, believe me, it's all clear. And the most important thing is that it is clear to the voters. And you might not expect voters to be stupid. ( Interface: Yours or Ours?) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U92	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U93	Dear colleagues, I think we should all congratulate Minister Puce today. It really is his day today. Two years ago he went to Riga City Council elections with the slogan “I’m going to demolish Nilu!” . ( Internouncing call.) Two years later, Mr. Puce's dream has come true. ( Milestones.) Congratulations! Congratulations to him on this. But today, looking at the headlines of news... For example, one such condition is: ‘Minimum speed control radar is disabled due to lack of money in the road section of Tynezi-Koknesse.’ That, colleagues, is absolutely everything we need to know about in which direction regional development is going. By the way, you still remember Mr. Pouce... is he the minister of which? ( Interface: “OTHER! ” ) Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's gonna be okay, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U94	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U95	I've always been worried when I climbed the platform, whether Mrs. Mūrniece will call immediately or later, and that's why concentrating on the idea is more difficult, but I want to stress... I want to ask you a question. You remember, two years ago, we had Mayor Bondar, if, remember, Mayor Bondar? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “There was also President Bondar!” ) He entered Riga City Council. We also had three more mayors - Jānis Bordāns, Juta Jušas (Interviews). ... Juta Strike and Juris Jušas. (Laughter) Thank you very much. But now it's the same thing. You got it. They're also coming to the President. So that there's a change of name, it's just a matter of time. (Laughter) We had four mayors, four mayors! They entered Riga City Council. Two years have passed. And they say there is no order in the Riga Council. And so it is absolutely clear why there is no order. If four mayors, such decent, draw mayors, have not finished two years, then the Riga City Council should be released. Who is responsible, guilty of no order in Riga? Mayor Bondar is responsible, mayor Bordāns, mayor Jušaks, mayor Strīķe is responsible for the fact that there is no order in Riga, because they got away from that Riga City Council. They turned away from that Riga City Council. And that doesn't change my opinion. I really believe that the Riga City Council should be released. But the question - who is responsible for this - is different. And those people are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U96	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U97	Yes, colleagues, about the Prime Minister's speech. The Minister continues to put these two things together in his speech, without listening to what the opposition says about the fact that this first waste case has not really been fully assessed and is probably illegal. Question... The fact that the minister said... Unfortunately, with all his heart he is so sorry that this situation has happened... That is the thing that I absolutely would not agree with. In my opinion, you are now sitting in such a thrill that you have finally succeeded... and has managed to lead the situation so far that the Riga City Council itself “discounts”. But let us talk about the rule of law and what you mentioned in your speech - that you have made a legal assessment at the December sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers that the government is convinced that this legal basis is here. And how can we make sure that the government is able to assess the legal basis? I will not talk at this time about the quality of the draft laws that come to the Saeima, how they are changed, including this draft law. But let us take an example! Mrs. Šuplinska comes to a dispute with the rector of the University of Latvia. What's the result? Even after the court's decision, Mrs Šuplinska continues to behave as if she were aunt from the countryside, contests the court's judgment... And this is what the Minister of Government does. The Minister of Government is saying that she does not understand how such a court has reached such a decision. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues! At the time when the Minister of Government spoke about court decisions, I have confidence... doubts as to any legal assessment by that government. That, in my opinion, is not acceptable. Where is that “uncompromising justice”? What else in Latvia can decide - who is right, who is right - not, if not true? But in this case, even after a court decision, the speeches that take place afterwards, in my opinion, are, well below the ministerial level. Ministers should obey at such moments. I therefore question the legal analysis carried out by your government. I have more confidence in the Law Office's assessment of the justification for this waste - it is legal or not legal - and I regret at the moment that you nevertheless, despite all this opposition argument in order to preserve your face, still retain these two things together, which were simply separable, and we would get a normal, legal decision in line with the "uncompromising rule of law", all the values that so many government ministers love to preach.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U98	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U99	I forgot to mention that this situation is characterised by a single proverb. The proverb of the Latvian people is that good wood can not bear bad fruit. And with that good tree, I mean mayor Bondar, mayor Stricky, mayor Jurash, mayor Bordan... Mr. Feldman was there in the Riga City Council... Another gentleman in the last row, who is angryly watching, was at the Riga City Council. (Laughter) There's evidence here. If you were a good tree, in these two years since the previous Riga City Council elections you would have had good results regarding what has happened in the Riga City Council. But ye bear no good fruit. You did not bear any fruit with your activities (Interface.) , you just fled from Riga City Council. That's why I don't believe that what you are presenting here today... that there will be some change... I am convinced that most of the public also do not believe that there will be changes. The public thinks that there will be the same charting, the same kind of choom being, everything will be the same. As with the wife of Jušas, who was specially designed, by the way, for his post at the port of freedom. There was no such fleet director-general. It was created specifically for Jušas’ wife at that time. Now there is a question that will be specifically created for those posts. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “Everyone who needs it!” ) Nothing will change. One or two, nothing will change. The question is only about what you are fighting for - who will chart in the Riga City Council. So you should change it. And should explain why mayor Bondar fled the council and why all other plagues fled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U100	The name to Member Martin Bondar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U101	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We are debating proposal 4, where in fact we have added to the objective - because the Riga City Council has not been able to meet and we, as decision-makers, have the right to dismiss this Riga City Council. And I have this visualisation in connection with what I hear here in the debate. It's not about whether it's a wastebin or not. It's about who's going to carry a husband or a wife. And then some people use arguments (Interfaces: “Bondars! ” ): “I called my lawyer, and my lawyer said that the marriage contract had written down that the wastebin would be carried by you.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You’re going to talk about that thing now or about the Krajbanka?” (Laughter) You can come here to talk about it. And now, you know, both of you and you both remember -- historically -- who's a wastebin, who's washed the dishes, who's done it and did it. Colleagues! Let's not wake up and let's fire... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And let the new elections begin! Right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U102	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U103	A really good call: let us not learn and do what we need! To be honest, I would like to say three things. First. It is very good that today the Minister got up in the tribunal and once again proved that all of it was created sufficiently artificially around the waste and that, to be honest, the Ministry itself failed to act over time, because this procurement in 2018 went out of the Procurement Monitoring Office procedure, the evaluation from the same ministry went out and there was no objection there. I realize that it's very difficult to get your head out of it once and start thinking differently when you're in the waste. The second moment I would like to point out. There's, here's the accusations and comparisons with Idi Amina and everyone else... that, here we are, in principle, a fighter, a little more... one another there's a offender and a criminal, the devil knows him who's gone to Brussels... and so on, and so on. Mr. Puce was a member of the Riga City Council, but to be honest, he had not moved his finger to avoid the mess he is now talking about as a minister. Because if it had been different, the results would have been different and it would not have been appropriate to talk about something that should perhaps not be talked about today (according to the opinion of lawyers). Third. It is not about this - we need to dismiss or dismiss the Riga City Council; today it is about the prepared document – the draft law “The Law on the Dismissal of the Riga City Council”. It is about those articles that are included in this bill. And if it's about that bill being drawn up wrong, then... in that case, either we have to take this criticism constructively and begin to rebut what the opposition says, or we are simply hard-trackingly trying to make sure that all that has been recorded there is correct. It's not! And so today, speaking about the proposal made by the Cabinet of Ministers, it should be said once again that the Cabinet of Ministers is quite often expressing and showing incompetentness. And whatever it's about Carina... about Mr. Kariņš saying that he has pulled Latvia out of the bog, he has had a great risk of pushing Latvia back into the bog with laws and norms of this kind. I therefore call for this proposal tabled by the Minister and supported by the Commission not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U104	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U105	Listening to this debate, an anecdotes comes to my mind, where the question is... such a simple and direct question. A man is required... and that shows this debate... the level of competence at which the debate is conducted. When he is asked, “You’re silly or pretending?” , he answers: “I am not pretending.” I hope that those who listen to this debate, those who listen to it, understand what this is about. Today nobody is talking here about whether Riga City Council is forgiving or not. Its debate here is about why you cannot do it legally. Because it's obvious to everyone that this dome... It has demonstrated its inability to act; it wants to be fired. In turn, you are those who cannot be dismissed by the Riga City Council in a legal manner. You can't even do that! You're so huge insane! You are so far removed from reality, from the rule of law and democracy that you believe that this is not necessary at all. Either you pretend you don't understand if you really are (as in that anecdotes) its second characteristic. You try something to make yourself clear, because otherwise if you do not have such clarity, then I expect the country to be very hard and serious times. And the best thing that could be done after the dismissal of the Riga City Council is to release this Saeima as soon as possible, so that this nightmare, this lawlessness and authoritarianism... the end of such a regime of null and void authoritarianism has entered into force as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U106	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, is the proposal 4 to be clarified?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U107	Colleagues! This 4. - committee - the proposal with the basis for the dismissal of Riga City Council is strongly supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U108	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U109	5. - Mr Agešina's proposal to exclude Article 2 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U110	Members are in favour. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U111	6. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Support has also been given by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U112	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U113	7. - A motion from Member Agešina. Article 3 of the draft law is to be excluded. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U114	Members want to have a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “The second you turned off, the third you didn’t turn off!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U115	Colleagues! How many hours a week should I spend to be a good member of the Saeima? ( Intercretion: “Don’t! ” ) Well about. ( Interface: “Where should I go? ” ) How many hours should you work to be a good manager of Riga municipality? ( Intercretion: “It’s like to whom! ”) ) As for whom. Well, at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission meeting, I asked: “How many hours do these three officials, who will remain in the main work in the ministries, plan to devote themselves to the management of the municipality of Riga?” Silence. They did not know how much time they would take for the Riga Municipality. That means they don't have the least feeling... Neither they nor VARAM, who encourages such an idea of three officials, who will work full-time in ministries and at the same time lead the municipality of Riga, nor those who were present in the Commission, have any understanding of what it means to manage the municipality of Riga. ( across the board: ‘ How much will I need? ’) ) Well, for example, 38 000 documents must be reviewed, prepared and signed by the City Council within one year. There are 1000 decisions of the Council within one year to be prepared and adopted. This is the average amount that the municipality is currently doing. Those who have worked in the municipality know what it means to prepare the decision of the council. If they really think seriously about managing the municipality of Riga and ensuring quality work during this transitional period and all the miracles promised by the Riga City Council will be good, then there will be no good work in three ministries. I call for support for Mr Agešina's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U116	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U117	Colleagues! I fully agree with Dana Reizniece-Ozola... the reasoning she says... in essence... But in essence, I have to say a second part. In reality, the Riga Council will not, of course, be led by officials during this time. In reality, it will be led by the grey cardinal of a party. That will be the reality with the professional management of Riga City Council! And that's why we have chosen a path like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U118	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add to the proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U119	7. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr Agešina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U121	8 / 8 - Dombrovskis's proposal. It provides for the wording of Article 3 of the draft law as follows: "Article 3. This Law appoints temporary administration in Riga City Municipality as follows: 1) the head of the temporary administration – the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce; 2) the deputy head of the temporary administration – the member of the Saeima Juta Strīķe; 3) the member of the temporary administration – the member of the temporary administration – Raivis Dzintars.’ This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U122	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U123	Colleagues! Of course, I do not want to turn this debate into a farce. But this proposal has its own logic. Because if such an administration, the management of the City Council were, Juris Puce would have been given a second chance to arrange the waste farm in the Riga City Council, namely to do what he did not do while he was a member of the City Council. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš’ intermediate call.) Mrs Juta Strike could finally put all of them in prison - the corrupts - in Ovija. Thank you very much. - which was not done while working in Riga City Council. And Raivis. ... Raivis Dzintars would also be useful. I think he could introduce morning bustle in the council and Latvian in all kindergartens. And we could even make a decision to keep them from working in both jobs - just like those three officials (Interview.) - and also to determine the additional remuneration (average salary times the coefficient 3,64 - well, as already provided for by the law). I think it would be very good. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U124	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U125	Dana told me everything. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U126	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission to this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U127	In the Commission, this proposal is... Well, not supported. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U128	Colleagues! We will vote in favour of proposal 8. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Dombrovskis's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 23 ( Intersenses: “Ooo!” ), to -59, abstain -2. The proposal is not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: "E, who is it for the vote?" ; dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Vote of Trust!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U129	9. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It provides for the expression of Article 3 as follows: "Article 3. By this Law, the Executive Director of the municipality shall perform the duties of the temporary administration of the city municipality of Riga.” This proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U130	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U131	The previous vote showed that there is a crisis in the government. In fact, distrust was expressed to Juris Pucem, Juta Strike and Raivis Dzintars by rejecting the proposal on who should lead the relevant council. On the other hand, on the alternative... Given that you have already, as Mr Valaiņš says, lost all three officials from the coalition, I fully agree that in that case, we should act as Mr Valaiņš is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U132	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U133	Colleagues presented the substance of this proposal. This proposal would provide for the responsibilities of the temporary administration to be assumed by the Executive Director of the City Council. Let me explain why I think this is important. One is what previous colleagues have said... is the ability and understanding of those officials to direct, including spending time there. The second question is what responsibility we impose on these people. In this case, I will remind you of the law on the management of public capital and capital companies, which we all adopted together, and there is an important nuance that all issues with the management of capital companies... In the future, they have been removed from the Board from their political responsibility and transferred directly to the Executive Director's responsibility. We saw how “interesting” turns started in the Riga City Council at the moment this norm came into force. Various political manoeuvres also began at that time. And indeed, its interest in this post, let us say, and some control over the management of public figures, has increased considerably - precisely the pressure on the Executive Director and the various options to create the Deputy Executive Director, which is not happening so far. Currently, if you see how Juris Radzevičs, the current Riga City Council Executive Director (and he is not a political official at the Riga City Council, he is an employee), I would like to say that this is the right direction. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) In this regard, develop this monitoring board, involving a wide range of experts. That is, in my opinion, the right direction, but the question is whether this component has been taken into account at all when drawing up this bill of dismissal. However, I think it should have been more responsible for this, because the situation is now developing for all capital companies... they will be represented by people who are close to zero in relation to corporate governance, and this goes against the law that we ourselves have adopted. And this law is an interesting law. It is a public person’s share capital and company management law. There were not only this news, there other news appeared, other innovations in this law, including norms which by nature have also banned Baiba Rubesai from serving as a member of the Stradiņš Hospital Council. In that sense, the law has worked very well. In this case, there is a contradiction in this point, and it is with this proposal that I call on the Saeima to remove this contradiction and maintain the governance of capital companies... Well, try as much as possible to establish the rules on which we have voted.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U134	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U135	Dear colleagues, From the principle of good governance - this proposal is indeed a very valuable proposal, because today the regulations governing the municipality provide for the separation of the decision-making power from the executive power and, in part, the process has already taken place. The Executive Director shall be responsible, wherever possible and always, for the operation of the executive agency, which is of paramount importance for the transition periods. In this case, Mr Valaiņa is absolutely right, because holding of the shares and responsibility for the companies belonging to the municipality has also shifted into executive directors. So from the governance model - naturally this proposal is worth gold, because no temporary administration... As long as it goes into the course of things, it will already have time to release its offices. In this case, it should be only (which would really be necessary) to supplement this draft law with a norm for the administration of shared functions... which would be the supervisory authority and executive authority that could continue to work during the transitional period. This is crucial to ensure continuity in operations. Because no executive directive develops or adopts new policies, the decision-making power does so. Until a new decision-making power appears, no new policies can be developed either by the temporary administration. That is why this proposal is valuable and I call for support for this proposal from Mr Valaiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U136	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U137	9. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal - the Commission has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U138	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Colleagues! Let us start examining the proposals related to Article 4 of the draft law after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U139	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, Boris Cilevičs, Anda Čakša and Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U140	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U141	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. The order of business is the examination of draft laws. Draft law “Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U142	We stayed at 11, huh? Okay. Thank you. Let's get off the viewer. 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A motion from Member Agešina. Article 4 of the draft law is to be excluded. This proposal is not supported by the Commission. ( The paragraphs are: “Why? ” ; “Let’s vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U143	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Mr Agešina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 18, 52, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U144	11. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Article 4 of the draft law is foreseen to be expressed as follows: “The temporary administration shall perform the functions of the local municipal council, the duties laid down in the statutory acts for the chairman of the council and ensure continuity of the work of the municipal institutions, as well as financial and economic activities.” This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U145	Members shall not object. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U146	12. - A motion from Member Agešina. Article 5 of the draft law is to be excluded. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U147	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Mr Agešina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U148	13. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Also provides for the exclusion of Article 5. Can't vote, if?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U149	It shall not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U150	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A motion from Member Agešina. Article 6 of the draft law is to be excluded. Neither is it supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U151	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Ageshina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 52, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U152	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Article 6 shall be reworded as follows: "Article 6. A new thought is elected in the ordinary elections." This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U153	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U154	Today's bill is, of course, legally unquality, and so today more ironies are about everything that instead of simply putting this bill into drawer and making a new bill, because the Riga City Council is actually "selfless", it is once again a legally unquality document, and it is called legal action. It is also known as such a legal action that now its potential coalition with Edgars Jaunupe at the forefront... think that now there will be a five-year reign in Riga. And that is the essence of this bill. Member Valainis has offered a normal, democratic solution that these extraordinary elections are intended only for an appropriate period of time - until the current Riga City Council elections; this is a democratic process. Because otherwise it happens that... Either, just before the break, such a situation was - one of the candidates came to the Saeima, representative of the New Unity, Vilnis Ķirsis (Interface: “He is still!” ), there came a Member from the New Unity, from Latgale, Aldis Adamovičs, and there was such a conversation that we... Well, Aldis Adamovich's there... he says: “Well, we, the Mafia of Latgale, with Mr Teirumnieks from the National Association, with Janis Krishan from SASKAN, have already decided that there will be 40th bus.” And the same applies to the way you now elect the thought for that time. Well, in fact, that objective is clear. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) I think we should vote right away. That would also be fair to the voter. It should be voted that your aim is to give back to Edgars Jaunupas in Riga... It should also be recorded in the law, and in fact it could also be voted on, because it would be at least fair action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U155	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U156	Colleagues, welcome again! The extraordinary elections of Riga City Council, if any, will not only be extraordinary, they will also be unequal in relation to Rigans. Yesterday in the Commission of State Administration and Local Government we supported conceptual changes in the Law on Elections; by this we stated that in 2021, when municipal elections will take place, all Latvians will be offered the opportunity to vote in any district, because the electoral register will be activated and there will be an opportunity to check in each district whether the particular voter has voted or not in municipal elections. If we are talking about the Riga elections, there will be no such possibility yet. And in this case, the coalition deliberately does not allow the Rigas to elect their self-government on the same level as it will be possible... how other municipal voters will be allowed. Therefore, I call on you to vote in favour of Mr. Valaiņa's proposal, as it is another support for democracy in Latvia, and it is an equal opportunity for Rigans to elect their own government in the same way as will be allowed to all other Latvian voters.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U157	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U158	Colleagues! The substance of the proposal is very serious. At one time, the Saeima experienced a great loss when the Saeima basketball team was abandoned by Vilnis Ķirsis and went to Riga City Council. There is currently a risk of losing another good player - Juri Jušas. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Don’t cry!” ) I think it would be a major loss for the Saeima basketball team. By supporting this proposal, it would, however, prolong the process until we can play together. But by nature, however, this proposal is also in some way... provides that elections, regular elections, shall take place when the elections are to take place. The shadow of suspicion has still not been removed from this draft law... that, however, a part, an essential part, an annotation of the whole bill! - It's about it... on waste, which... It could not be described as truly legal. Similarly, if these regular elections were to take place in 2021, it would also, in a way, remove many issues, and I think no one would turn to the Constitutional Court if it were to take place in the current period. This would happen in a clear legal way and the Council, above all, would be dismissed. Just the question: when would the elections take place? But the important argument I wanted to mention is how ready is the Central Electoral Commission? Its readiness is confirmed in a letter, where I believe that around half a million were already called for funding to organise this process. And the principle of equality should be respected here. The Central Electoral Commission should also respect the principle of equality. With regard to the popular vote. Everything the Central Electoral Commission did - very bureaucraticly took decisions, processes and did not try to inform the public in any way - and neither does it at present... on the vote by the people on the motions of Members. Question: "What will happen in this case?" What will the Central Electoral Commission do to ensure that citizens are fully involved in this process? If this were to happen in 2021, then I have no doubt that all would happen. At the moment, I have some doubts - in the light of previous experience - that this will really happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U159	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U160	But on the other hand, thinking of it - Riga City Council for five years... We've got a mayor Stackey for five years. ( Internouncing call.) So, well, let's see... Look at the ads, just look at the ads! We have a mayor who doesn't steal in the store. We have a mayor who doesn't come to the red light. We will have the mayor where we can see that its party will have already spent all its sevenfold funding in the entire advertising campaign, well, according to its purpose. Soon, in the dreams of pensioners, Mārtiņš Staķis will show up - so big is the advertising campaign! From that point of view, everything is fine. The problem is that Mārtiņš Staķis does not go to the platform and does not say: “Yes, I am ready to be the Mayor of Riga for five years. ( Insight: “He has already said! ” ) I will prove that I will not be dependent on Edgars Jaunupe... from Edgars Jaunupis's interests. I will prove that gambling in Riga will be completely eliminated and these gambling sites will be closed. I will prove that the waste business is not owned by Mr. Kokorevič (which is, as you say, a big fan of your party)... “ and in that spirit. It's missing. There are those sweet ads, but there is a lack of a real man's honour, and that would be what I would expect from the mayor, who is now, despite that, what I am calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U161	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U162	Dear colleagues, it would really be a mistake to give the new Council the name "Waste Council" for five years. But if we speak seriously, then today, when preparing for the extraordinary municipal elections in Riga, there are, to be honest, certain problems with respect for the norms of the Law on Election Aggregation - with party financing cases in the conduct of election campaign, with other things. This also creates some confusion among the voters. It seems to me that Mr Valaiņa's proposal, which concerns only the largest municipality in Latvia, is in place, because it should not be played with all kinds of intrigues and other games, here should come to the problem seriously and really preserve the possibilities for the municipality to work fully as a result of the next election, and as an emergency solution, support Mr Valaiņa's proposal to give a shorter term of office to the newly elected council.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U163	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U164	The very name of any extraordinary elections is “exceptional”. This means that something has happened that cannot be put in the usual frames, and the voters are being told that we will be elected, but temporarily. What the ruling coalition is going to do now is to announce an extraordinary election to two months later - two months later! - to elect the council of the largest municipality of Latvia for a period of five years. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) I repeat: you are going to adopt a law which will provide for such a right to be elected for six... for a period of almost six years in a municipality. And also in the case of extraordinary elections, the intermediate stage, which will be given to voters in order to get acquainted with each party's programme, with the personnel of each party's list to analyse what has been fulfilled from the promises made in the previous period and which has not been fulfilled from what has been promised... That's right, I'm joking about promises now, about the personal... Is that serious? And I have a big question. I will turn to a party that calls itself a liberal party and cooperates with the largest Latvian NGOs. I have a question: where is Delnas, Providus' indignation about the fact that in practice Development/About! has already launched a pre-election campaign, that they spend practical pre-election for the campaign on the part of the state, realising that this is happening outside the pre-election period? Is this a fair game? Is it a game based on European rules? ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U165	The debate time...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U166	However, I hope to expect such indignation from NGOs. And I hope that...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U167	The debate is over. Thank you. I closed the debate. ( Interface: “Your time is over! ” ) So, on behalf of the Commission, on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U168	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal - the Commission has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U169	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: “15 proposals: no one is supported!” ) Please see the result. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U170	16. - Mr Agešina's proposal to exclude Article 7 of the draft law. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U171	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Ageshina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U172	17. - Mr Agešina's proposal to exclude Article 8 of the draft law. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U173	We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Ageshina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 23, against - 55, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U174	18. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It provides for the rewording of Article 8: "Article 8: The temporary administration – the executive director of the municipality – shall be determined by applying a coefficient of 3,64 of the monthly average salary.’ There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U175	Members... ( across the line: “There is no vote! ”) ) Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote. And 19. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U176	And 19. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It provides for the replacement of the words ‘Law shall enter into force on the day following the announcement’ by the words ‘Law shall enter into force on 4 June 2021’. This proposal is not supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U177	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U178	Dear colleagues, We have examined all the proposals. I have informed you, I have reported that this bill has been endorsed by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission with a strong majority. Members of the Commission supported the draft law on the second, final reading of the Riga City Council by 11 votes in favour and two votes against. Thank you to the committee's consultants and all the participants in the discussion. I invite the Saeima to vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final reading of the Riga City Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U179	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on the second, final, final reading of the Riga City Council. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. (Applause) On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Service Regulators”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U180	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Regulators”. Three proposals were received for the third reading. 1. - the Minister for Economic Affairs... A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, in which he proposes to complement the competition commission, which will decide on the members of the board, with a representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U181	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U182	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is about the same thing that the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics tried to talk about. Only he was simply unable to formulate the correct version, and this version was then created by the commission. It is about supplementing this competition commission with a representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U184	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U186	I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U187	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Service Regulators”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Railway Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U188	It's not me. Hello, colleagues! Today, at third reading, we will consider the draft law "Amendments to the Railway Act". Draft law was designed to ensure the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the interoperability of the rail system within the European Union and of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on rail safety requirements. At the third reading, 18 proposals were tabled, all of them from the Legal Bureau. The first eight proposals are of a technical nature and relate to changes in the numbering of articles in the draft law. Proposal No 1. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U190	Proposal No 2 Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U192	Proposal No 3. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U193	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U194	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U196	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U198	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U200	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U202	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U204	9. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Editable. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U206	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to apply the certification procedure independently of the track gauge. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U207	Members support... ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Proposal No 10? Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U208	Proposals 11 to 17 - Technical proposals proposed by the Legal Bureau are related to changes in the numbering of articles in the draft law and transitional provisions. 11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U210	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U212	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U214	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U216	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U218	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U220	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U222	And 18. - The Legal Bureau's proposal, which...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U223	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U224	Really? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Do not prepare for Mr. Riekstins! Or!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U225	And the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U226	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible to clarify the indication of the entry into force of the law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U227	Members are in favour. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Let’s get ready for next time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U228	Please support the draft "Amendments to the Railway Act" at third, final, final reading. Shut your mouth once!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U229	Dear colleagues, I call and remind you that we are still in Parliament and adopt laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U230	That's it!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U231	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Railway Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U232	Hello, colleagues! The National Administration and Municipal Commission worked with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic” before the third reading. Two proposals were received by the Commission. Both are from the Legal Office. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U234	And also 2. - Legal Bureau's proposal, editorial. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U236	I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U237	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on General Education”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U238	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law “Amendment to the General Education Law” at second reading. I will remind you of the basis for amending the law, the nature of which we voted at first reading and which we jointly supported: the municipality has a duty to ensure that every municipal pre-school institution provides a programme in the national language. Currently, there are kindergartens, where training takes place in the state language, are also so-called mixed kindergartens, which include both minority groups or programmes, as well as programmes for training in the state language, and there are pre-school establishments where training is implemented only in minority languages. Now that the entry into force of this amendment does not exclude the possibility of implementing minority programmes, it is stipulated that every municipal pre-school institution should be able to receive a service in the state language. In the major municipalities, especially in Riga... We now know that the real number of children who do not have access to pre-school services is 1135 children. The absolute majority in this line are those children... parents who want to send their children directly to the program in the state language, and it is absolutely unacceptable that the place of residence at the pre-school institution is not available such a offer or that parents who want to send the child to the kindergarten in Latvian must choose between a private service provider or even a municipal kindergarten in a language other than the state. So we are now working on proposals for second reading. The Commission has received six proposals. 1. - the proposal from Member Papule. Waiting for a working day... that the duration of the working day preceding the holidays is reduced by at least one hour for teachers, including a period of training of 30 minutes. The Commission discussed this proposal for a one-hour shortening of the working day. The majority of the members of the Commission were convinced by the argument that the rule contained in the Labour Law for one hour's reduced working time is also applicable to educators, so that such a rule should not be specifically included in the General Education Law. With regard to the duration of 30 minutes of study, the Commission considered that this would be a separate issue of discussion outside the scope of this draft law and that it would be necessary to listen to the views of both trade unions and ministries and then to decide separately. The Commission has now voted against this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U239	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U240	Madam President, What is this proposal compared to Riga City Council's dismissals! But, Mr Dzintari, this is a trade union proposal. It would not be correct to refer to it. I ask you to support... I request support for the proposal to add a new article to the draft law in the following wording... in Article 10, the fourth paragraph is added: ‘(4) The working day preceding the holidays shall be reduced by at least one hour, including 30 minutes’. Why? For directors, teachers and students of educational institutions, like all others, such as officials, it is clear clearly how legitimate action can be taken before public holidays. The current situation in educational institutions is in fact that their staff, fear of violating the requirements of law, Cabinet of Ministers norms or other regulatory enactments, sometimes appeal to controlling institutions, namely the State Service of Quality of Education, to confirm their decision about reduced working time on the day of pre-winter, because experience shows that at times an anonymous call can also lead to violation of both reasonable and interpretable norms. But most educational institutions, fearing the step of such harmonisation, work on the usual scale before Christmas. Yes, of course, the responsibility for the organisation of the work of an educational institution lies in the hands of its head, but that is why - and not only in my opinion - there is a need to ensure a regulatory framework that is clear and that is enshrined in the law. Of course, one can agree that relatively recently, the Saeima has already adopted a similar provision, which will enter into force in the second half of this year. But this does not apply, for example, to vocational education and to pre-school institutions. What do they do? Such a norm would provide clear information on the duration of the day of study before Christmas for parents as well, so it would be clearly known the conditions and possibility to plan the day without surprise. Thus, the duration of the early working day would be known to pupils, pupils, parents, and clear clarity in the organisation of the teaching work would be for the heads of the educational institution. In contrast to the current situation, where they, when choosing for safety reasons, do not risk requiring harmonisation, violate the rules applied in other professions, thus once again discriminating against teachers. I invite you to clarify the norms of the law, thus eliminating the existing deficiency. Teachers deserve equal treatment before Christmas, as do all other workers. I invite you to support it, and perhaps someone will also thank you this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U241	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U242	Dear colleagues, Mr. Dzintar! You were also a member of the Education, Culture and Science Commission in the last Saeima, and you probably remember that 12. Significant amendments to both the Education Law and the General Education Law were adopted at the Saeima, and proposals were submitted in parallel to both laws, which provided for a reduction of the duration of training hours in ordinary schools and special schools by 10 minutes in pre-winter days. The grounds for these proposals were clearly defined and also supported by the Commission unanimously, if I remember correctly. And then Minister Shadursky did not oppose these proposals and understood that it would be good for both teachers and parents of children to plan their time in the way they do, for example, in offices and other workplaces where shorter working hours are usually fixed in the early days. Therefore, the pupils deserve a short working day before Christmas, just as the teachers deserve. And then, in principle, nobody objected to it. This is all the more reason why I am very surprised now by this argument that, here, the proposal is open to discussion and is still compatible with the trade union. I will draw your attention to the fact that the trade union was among the most active supporters of this proposal at the time the proposal was launched. It is not the case that a trade union could now object to this proposal, which is aimed at improving the situation of teachers! I would therefore like to express a very deep misunderstanding about the Commission's response to this proposal. It is not clear to me why there is no desire to improve the situation on this issue and why there is such misunderstanding, and why the honourable committee member Mr Dzintara has now changed his opinion so much because 12. The family had a completely different view. I call on you to support the proposal of my colleague, Mrs Papule, and indeed to ensure that both teachers and children are treated fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U243	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U244	Hello, Madam President. Colleagues! When we looked at this proposal, we talked about two things in the Commission, because... well, it is essentially also composed of two parts. The first one is what should apply to teachers. As Mrs Papules said, indeed, teachers, like any other worker, are subject to the Labour Law because they have a contract of employment with them. Thus Section 135 of the Labour Law already talks about shortening working time by one hour in pre-winter days, unless stated otherwise in the collective agreement. Because there are some heads of authority who probably do not fully understand this rule... I think it would not be right, therefore, in another law... further introduce an additional provision. That's one thing. The other thing. Perhaps it's also important to explain... Well, Evia knows it very well, maybe there's a Member who doesn't know about how the teacher's day is formed. It is not just about teaching, so it is about learning. For the teacher, the working day is the hours of study, while he is preparing for work, while he is planning work, while he is good for the students. And then every teacher... Depending on the number of contact hours he has, the number of hours he spends in the class is determined by the number of hours of the working week, which can then be divided by one week. The head of the institution must comply with the Labour Act and I do not see any need to reintegrate this provision into the General Education Act. The other thing we're talking about is to shorten the training hours... 30 minutes... 10 minutes, so 30 minutes. It should be clear that in certain cases they could also be 15 minutes, which would already be a third of the hour, as the law currently provides for a period of 40 to 45 minutes. And here's that when you look at the content of the new learning, you see that the institutions must give enough freedom to plan... plan work, choose the most appropriate forms of learning, leaving a little out of the fact that it is not always the lesson that may be used up to now - to be physically in class. They are also out-of-hour forms. I think it is very wrong to limit this... Now, everyone... for all of those mandatory 10 minutes less... and 30 minutes minimum. It should also be noted that we were also discussing within the Commission. I asked myself this question: could such a shortening of training hours not have an impact on municipal budgets as well? And in any event, the Latvian Local Government Union pointed out that this issue could probably be such... In other words, at primary school, where there are five or six lessons in one day in the smaller classes, it means that the physical hours end at 13.00. By reducing them by another 10 minutes each time, the lesson ends at 12 noon. And then I have a question. Those parents who work until 5 p.m. will shorten their working day until 4 p.m.? What happens to those children? The municipality must ensure their supervision. And the municipalities have not been asked this question, Mrs Papules. That is why we agreed in the Commission that there will be a separate discussion on this issue, we will speak, and I will ask colleagues not to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U245	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev. Mr. Clementyev won't talk. I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U246	So on behalf of the Commission, I can only remind you that the proposal was made by Member Evija Papule. It is not possible for trade unions to submit proposals in the draft law in accordance with current procedures. And I can only repeat that the discussion on these issues (on the length of the training course) at the committee meeting with representatives of the trade unions, representatives of the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Science, has not been and exactly has been a wish for Commissioners to discuss this issue individually, in order to understand whether this proposal is the best solution. Because it does not actually leave room for manoeuvre. The duration of each hour is determined to be 30 minutes, no more or less (Dep. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) , and it is not certain that it is the right, the only way to achieve this goal. Since the members of the commission were not present... Let's say that, denying this... for this legitimate objective, but there was a desire to debate separately on the means to better achieve this objective, a majority of the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U247	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Papule! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U248	Thank you. Proposals 2 and 3 should be seen as packages. They both speak of the second paragraph of Article 21. Namely, in the version of the first reading of the 20th century, this obligation of the municipality to ensure the acquisition of pre-school education programmes in the state language was provided provided for under the condition that it is requested by the parents of the child or persons exercising custody. Given that parents, when applying for their children at a pre-school institution, also indicate in any case what programme they want pre-school education for children, we do not see the need... The majority of the committee did not see the need to place particular emphasis in this accompanying recommendation on the obligation for parents to require their education in the state language, as the acquisition of education in the state language should be a basis rather than an additional opportunity for the parent to turn to the municipality in particular and in fact to the role of the applicant. The proposal of Member Rajvis Dzintars is, in fact, similar to the proposal of the Legal Bureau, but the wording of the Legal Bureau proposal was recognised by the majority of the Commission as more concise and precise. Proposal 2 is therefore partly supported and included in proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U249	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U250	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, ‘ Development/About!’ aim is a unified education system for all children of Latvia. We support the original idea of strengthening in the law the possibility for municipalities to have the opportunity to study pre-school in the state language close to home for all children whose parents wish to do so. Looking at the negative reaction of part of the population to the second reading, it is obvious that the current wording is misunderstood. There is concern that the amendment also threatens the implementation of minority education programmes in pre-schools. This, in our view, is not the aim of the bill. Supporting the opportunity for minority children to learn their mother tongue and culture - it is an important commitment of the state of Latvia by ratifying the General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe. We, the Group on Development/About! , come forward with our proposals for pre-schools. We hope that in future, the Saeima will work closely with the Ministry of Education and Science to create a country's long-term vision of how we will move towards a single education system. I believe that once all children in Latvia will learn together that teachers will both be ready to implement programmes in the state language and provide the necessary support for children who learn not their own language, so that they also achieve their full potential. In assessing these proposals, I would like to add that, when creating such a system, we must retain the opportunity for those children whose parents want to learn the language of a minority as well. So far, the solution is still a long way to go to a single education system. Let's work to build a united society education in Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U251	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U252	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would rather like to link this proposal to the Legal Office, which has only drafted the proposal of the National Alliance, supported at first reading, in the language of the law. In fact, the story is about this suggestion. What language do children learn from public institutions? What, then, is the role of teaching in the family language? The answer is: Children's and adolescents' learning in the family language is a crucial prerequisite for ensuring their cultural identity, because language is not only a supporter of culture, but also reproduces stereotypes of behaviour and thinking. Therefore, in a country that has developed largely as a result of the self-determination of the Latvian ethnic group with a view to ensuring the preservation of the culture and language of those belonging to the basic nationalities, children must have the right to education in pre-school education programmes in the state language. However, in my view, it is unacceptable for these rights to be exercised at the expense of the rights of others. A person who, like Latvians, cares about the specific nature of his culture and seeks to preserve and develop it by teaching his or her children in family language in public educational institutions and financing them for his or her taxes. It is clear that the education system described in proposal 3 is structured as a dual-flow pre-school institution. The training in such kindergartens could continue in two-flow general education institutions. This would create an incentive environment for better learning of Latvian language, for intertwining of learners, for overcoming each other's prejudices and for unifying society. But it is an ideal model, we know that the truth is always concrete. Few questions arise when a new pre-school institution is established. Meanwhile, the aim of the draft law is to launch two-flow training in existing minority kindergartens. In the restricted circumstances of premises, staff and other resources, such transformation will inevitably mean that, as the new school year begins, a group of Latvian children will be formed instead of a group of younger children belonging to minorities. The law does not describe and can not describe the outcome of such a process, but given that it will have a systemic nature, a child who is currently going to be in a kindergarten but will not have a place in a kindergarten will not be found in other kindergartens. There is another reason why this reform is a source of displeasure in society. The Saeima is already about to support this draft law, but no one is interested in public attitude. No one tried to ask minority parents how they treat this reform. This is a clear violation of democratic practice, which two weeks ago was also pointed out by the Saeima by the High Commissioner for National Minorities at the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). In particular, "any changes in policies or laws affecting minority communities must be made through effective communication, in consultation with all the groups concerned, in order to avoid misunderstandings". I conclude that this proposal compromises the good idea of artificially opposed Latvians belonging to different linguistic groups, but because of the fact that the system for the division of kindergarten places remains unexplored and unsubstantiated, the number of places for children from Latvian families may not decrease. The proposal is not ready and cannot therefore be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U253	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U254	Colleagues, this is actually a very serious issue. This also concerns me as a parent. My children understand and speak Latvian. They are young, one of them also goes to preschool education... attend a pre-school institution. And attend a pre-school institution that speaks a foreign language, Raivi Dzintar! Why? Because I, a man, a Latvian citizen, a Latvian by nationality, teach my children in Latvian. I send my children (in this case the oldest) to the kindergarten so that my child can learn foreign languages and be competitive with increasing growth. What you offer is very interesting “translation” that in fact you expose children to potential... in the future, the risk that they will be less competitive, because those families who respect values do not fear that their children will learn several languages, that their children will study in institutions that speak other languages, because they only enrich languages. By limiting children’s ability to learn different languages by talking daily, including in a language - language environment, you are only becoming more and more luxenised in our society. That is, in my opinion, a very populist and very wrong move. Of course, I don't care, Raivi Dzintar, whether you limit the future of your children and your children, but I just call you and ask you not to do so with other children, with other parents who look at the future of their child more widely, looking at their children as people who are able to talk in three or more languages that speak more than Latvian. ( Insight: Who forbids you?) ; dep. I. Riena: “The story isn’t about it!” ) And this proposal will make it legally possible... And, I guarantee, the National Association and also the JC will find opportunities to do so in the future in educational institutions where, for example, education in English or French is taking place. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “Englishs will learn Latvian!” ) That is why I am opposed to the proposal, because I believe that it is a free choice for parents, whether they send their children to a French kindergarten, whether they send their children to an English kindergarten, or whether they send them to a Russian kindergarten. It's their choice. Maybe they're sending several -- several! - educational establishments to make it easier for a child to learn a foreign language while in that environment. ( Milestones.) Why am I saying that? I am saying this for a very simple reason. Because... You can laugh, of course, but our Latvian, Latvian, children and Latvian people are less competitive than Gentiles because they have more language skills. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Gross: “Select the proposal!” ) Russian children automatically have more language knowledge, because they automatically know Russian and Latvian. Latvian children, most of them, for example, do not know Russian, and they are automatically less competitive. And, of course, you can call me a dull or something, but I look at the reality of life, I look at young people looking for a job, I look at young people who lose their knowledge of languages in this fight for a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U255	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U256	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. The people of Latvia, Latvian citizens and non-citizens, do not want segregation. The people of Latvia do not want segregation, which has been inherited from the Soviet times. We can't put one child in one sandbox, another child's leg and hope 18 years later... that, as they grow in different systems, they will form a single community. This is the legacy of Soviet times, and these amendments to the law should have been made 20 or 30 years ago. In principle, minorities, Mr. Pimenov, will also have the opportunity to learn their culture, to learn their history and literature, and thus to learn the language of their nationality... not in the language, but exactly these items. So do not deceive people that these opportunities will be denied! They will exist. This matter should have been done long ago, and we are convinced, too, that the Ministry of Education and Science is convinced that all Latvian people want this change, do not want to be segmented and do not want to grow in two different societies. I call for this proposal to be supported. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U257	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U258	Good afternoon! I understand there are colleagues who have such a special state of aggregation... When you consulted with other colleagues... When you don't really understand what to talk about, you go and consult, then come up to the pub, start to say what he's talking about, and then something's breaking up, and you're coming up with a big contradiction. Well, that's what happens. But Aldis Gobzem said such a great thing. Those families who value values there respect their language will not be afraid to send their children to educational establishments where they teach other languages. That's cool, isn't it? Because I don't see why we have such great fears in 30 years' time when we've gone that long way... and, as Maria said, we still have a very long way to go - I don't know, 30 more, 50 more - until Latvians can apply for a kindergarten in Daugavpils in Latvian; so that they don't have (Applause.) ... so that he should not go to Riga City Municipality and say: “Look, friends, my Latvian child has no place in a kindergarten in Latvia.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “But that’s another problem!” ) Don't talk to a tribunal, Mr. Gobzem! ( Milestones.) They're talking about... the fact that something would not have been discussed, that there are some groups in society who are not satisfied, that is always the case. When we raise a tax, someone is satisfied, someone is dissatisfied... When we impose an additional tax on sugar, there are also different opinions. Here, too, this is a normal situation. We spoke on this proposal in the Commission at three sittings - 22 January, 29 January and 5 February - and all the meetings were attended by the parents. We had a very wide-ranging debate. There were different views. We listened to them. But I think this situation, in the prayers of this Latvian and falling in the way that in Latvia the child has no place in the Latvian kindergarten, just have to stop today, and that's the story! The educational programmes of minority kindergartens will continue to exist, they will still be able to be licensed by educational institutions, and it is normal for them to do so. But... I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U259	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U260	Dear colleagues, It is really very difficult not to take part in this debate, because even yesterday someone came to our commission... I'm guessing his age, perhaps at the age of a teenager... from the Russian school boy, who had difficulty expressing his thoughts in Latvian. What are we debating today? Latvia awaits this norm for 30 years. And I can also assure you as a teacher - I have had students who have been forced to leave, who have not been able to continue teaching in Latvian in higher education even after secondary education. What competitiveness are we talking about here? Do these children want to study and live in Russia? That is a different idea. But if these children want to live, study in Latvia, they have to start learning Latvian at the kindergarten already. Let us support this proposal. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U261	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U262	Before the elections, Mr. Gobzems spoke and spoke in public discussions defending the KPV LV programme, where it was a point - to ensure equal opportunities for all children to study in Latvian. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “But this is not what you offer!” ) At the same time... I also remember the quote on trilingual education: it is not Russian schools that must be closed, but all students must be given the opportunity to learn three languages. Ainar Shlesser. Date of designation referred to
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U263	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U264	One little comment. We have a Member who, today, is doing this very much in Latvian. I'd like to... I will not name them, but we have a Member on this side to whom the child began school at 40th high school (the minority school). Could it be, Mr. Jušas, that one of the Members whose children... so does it? Could it be, or could it be, what? ( Milestones.) On the Latvian language speaking. Let's talk about duality! This proposal is not about children being given the opportunity to learn Latvian. This proposal is about those who have voluntarily chosen that they want to teach their children a number of languages from a kindergarten, in fact, this possibility will be denied. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstina and dep. ( See K. Feldman's Intersense.) This proposal is twofold and not complete and therefore does not need to be washed up at the end as well! You don't have to wash those nationalists who marry the Chinese or the Hondurasns if? Mr. Cole, you don't have to be such a nationalist! ( Milestones.) Neither, Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, should you say about restricting competitiveness and then weeping that entrepreneurs also require foreign language knowledge. Under conditions of competition, entrepreneurs will always need knowledge of foreign languages, and they are better taught at pre-school level. I agree that all Latvian children should be given the opportunity to provide education in Latvian. I completely agree with that. But your proposal is not about it! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Salnieks: "But that's exactly what the proposal is about! Legal Bureau proposal!’ ) Your proposal is that there will actually be opportunities for parents who send their children to a French school... You will come up with one day: “No, there will be no French! There will be no English! It’s all in Latvian!” That's where the risk you've programmed is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U265	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U266	Dear colleagues, Here I hear such texts from this tribunal, yes, about how unacceptable it is that a Latvian cannot find a place in a kindergarten. It is, of course, bad that any child is a Latvian child (Dep. J. Iesalnieks: “Specially in Riga!” ) or a Russian child in Riga or Daugavpils or elsewhere - can not find a place in a kindergarten. But in our country... This shows, first of all, my fellow Members, that we are so much a ‘failed’ country in terms of economic development (Dep. J. Salanist: “The municipality does not perform its functions!” ), that local authorities do not have sufficient funding to provide every child with a place in a kindergarten. But that's good. That's one. And then it happens so interesting that yes, there are also kindergartens that are for minority children, where minority children are studying. And now this statement becomes... on that... Well, here, if Latvian children do not have enough places in Latvian kindergartens, then we need all those kindergartens that are minority kindergartens... the children of Latvia should be given priority there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Col: “What exactly are you worried about? Tell me how it's threatening... So what is the next step, please? Because it's in our country... pretty much missing if. What's next? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col’s intermediate call.) To say that in our public park is not enough benches for Latvians? Then what will be the sign that this step is only for Latvians? ( Internouncing call.) I remember that some (e.g. the President of the Saeima) were recently on the occasion of the International Holocaust Remembrance Day. What did the Holocaust start to do, colleagues? By the fact that... By the way, in the 1930s it was in Germany that the beginning was - with benches that were only for the real Germans. And thinking like that is the way you're going now. ( Internouncing call.) If you really want to solve the problem in essence, then you need to solve it with the availability of kindergarten places for both Latvians and non-Latvians, not now doing that... People of one nationality have an advantage in our country (Dep. Col: “We talk about language, not nationality!” ) compared to people of other nations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: ‘For the language!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U267	Colleagues! Well, let's continue the debate from the platform, please! Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U268	Colleagues! It is very important to listen to what the appropriate parliamentary commission, which is responsible for the draft law, has communicated in the context of the draft law. The rapporteur, Mr Dzintara, made it very clear at the beginning that there are situations, such as those in Riga, where the absolute majority of children waiting in a row on the kindergarten are Latvians and the minority is a minority (Dep. R. Lochmeles-Lunova’s intermediate call.) children. Thus, it is only logical that the Latvian Parliament, not some international institutions or someone else, ensures that Latvians in their country can get education in the state language at any pre-school educational institution. This does not necessarily mean that there is no teaching in other languages. Please listen to the commission and do not go to such absurdities that French is the language of Latvian minorities! Please support Legal Commission... Legal Bureau, apologies, a proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U269	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U270	Dear President, Colleagues! We have been talking about this, as you yourself have said, for 30 years now. But we're still (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) We're where we are. When we talk about those places - kindergartens, pre-schools - it is necessary to remember that your forces, respectful of “Fatherland and Freedom”, privatised only 130 kindergartens in Riga city - 130!... Can you imagine... when you were driving the city of Riga, which we are releasing today. That's one. The other one, too... Well, after 30 years, with the huge funding that is invested in education and special strengthening of Latvian language, you can, however, prepare qualified teachers in Latvian so that they start to work - new, strong, with new methods. But when I asked Minister for Education and Science Shadurskis (when he was... when I worked in the previous Saeima at the Education, Culture and Science Commission, the Sports Sub-Commission: “Well, a why aren’t these educators? They don't exist. Why can’t you prepare those educators?” “Unfortunately, there is no!” Half of the teachers work for us already at retirement age. The other half for that kind of salary... Those young people who have just finished, such as universities, do not want to work. We are asking: We will increase their salaries for educators so that they can be, at least from 1000. No, let's just put it in 30. You ask for the national language provided (Dep. Mr Colls: “On the proposal!” ), but it's not, Richard... it is not an obligation for the municipality to provide with teachers... This is an obligation for the Ministry of Education and Science to provide with qualified educators. Riga City Council... the municipality does not prepare teachers, they are prepared by the state. Then, please, discharge your duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U271	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U272	My speech will be an invitation to Mr Asheraden to come here in the triple... (this is very important, because the debate in the Saeima forms the legal context for any law that has been passed here) and explained the following - Proposal 2 from Dzintara - "if requested by the parents of the child (persons exercising custody)". Comment: "Proposed in proposal No. 3." At the moment, we are looking at proposal 3, and this proposal no longer contains this phrase. I ask for clarification as to whether, when we voted on proposal 3, we also voted for this only when there is an older request, and I would ask for clarification as to how it will be technically. For example, if a child arrives at a preschool institution, whose parents demand to organise education in Latvian, and these parents are the only ones that that means? That this child will be taught separately from the whole group in Latvian? Will he have a special group? Will the whole group, where this child will be the only one whose parents will apply for education in the national language, all children will be in the national language? Please explain what this means in reality, how it will be in reality (Dep. A. Muižniece: “Regina, do you know how to read in Latvian?” ), in particular, given that you, Mr Asheraden, tried to explain to the parents who took part in the committee meeting that they had misunderstood the thought of the members of the commission... By the way, replica... We have problems with some Latvians here to formulate their ideas in their own language, and we do not need to condemn children who could not express something within the framework of the Shadow Day here in the Saeima. In my opinion, this is not correct with respect to the shadows that were here yesterday. One more. I will also ask Mr Asheraden to explain why the Commission did not support Member Pimenov's proposal, which reads: "To supplement the new wording of the second paragraph of Article 21 of the law included in the draft law with the following words: "By continuing to implement and not weakening the quality of the programme to be implemented in minority languages". What does that mean? If not supported, it will no longer be implemented, or yet it will be implemented, despite the fact that these words will no longer be included in the draft law? I will ask for clarification. And the last one. However, I will ask the JCPOA group not to continue with bad practices and not to operate with unverified facts. Working within the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, i.e. the Special Commission, everyone witnessed the fact that all the municipalities of Pierīga had problems with places in kindergartens. All submitted figures of how many hundred children from these municipalities parents specifically register in Riga for children to be in kindergartens. There are no such statistics (and you also do not have) how many places in kindergartens are actually missing. It's like a lack of teachers... Mrs Šuplinsk criticised that the statistics were not correct. There are, unfortunately, no correct statistics for the Ministry of Education and Science, which could be used by both the former Parliamentary Secretary and the present Parliamentary Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U273	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U274	Dear President, Honourable Members! I read what Kārlis Slane said at one of the last meetings of the Constitutional Meeting 100 years ago. He said that the biggest disaster in Latvia is the education system that has been taken over from Tsar Russia. And the main thing in this education system is that, unlike the Western system, children do not learn to read, write and count in the family, but they do learn it at school. And stop children in high school without any profession, without a trade. They've sat down. That is, it is being prepared, as Laundry says, as harsh as gentlemen. I must agree, for the first time, with Mr Gobzem, on the issue of their education and languages. This is necessary. I'll tell you from my experience. I have two granddaughters - four and six years old - and they study at school and in pre-school in Paris in French because the language is needed. But not because they want to live there, but because... The father has a new company; the apartment is in Adžiai, but the school is in Paris, and from March or April cheap flights... You know, about 35 euros. France opened the airline, you can fly on Friday, Saturday to Riga. So a kindergarten or preschool institution is a place where it doesn't teach you how to read and write, because all children know it in practice already in the family. It's a place of socialisation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “What about stupidity?” ) Thus, in this school in Paris, Latvians learn, Moroccans learn, Russians learn, French. On the basis of French, all this training takes place in French. In Russia, socialization of kindergartens takes place in Russian. And in Latvia this socialisation must take place in Latvian. And to write, to read and count children can learn today already before... before they go to school; kindergarten is not the place where they go to learn to read and write. I agree with Mr Gobzem: yes, the languages really need to be learned, that is right. And, finally, when you are socialised on the basis of Latvian, you can also go for a couple of years to teach at the international school. The European Union has such student exchange programmes so that languages can be learned perfectly. The fact that three languages are now a minimum for young people is something I fully agree with. But I say it again! - this socialisation must take place in kindergartens based on Latvian. It's been 100 years since Swane said it, but we're still working on this educational system from Czaric Russia. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U275	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U276	How can we put different cats in one bag! In this case, when it comes to the time that was 100 years ago, or to the time that will be 100 years later, however, we have to think about the specific things that we are discussing. The debate is not about language, the discussion is not about the Soviet years. The discussion is about how to better organise the work of pre-school institutions. And here are the problems? The first problem is with places that are... very precise said all those who defended and those who stared... Indeed, the number of seats is insufficient, so it is the first problem to be tackled - not with language methods, but with skillful economic methods. What is the solution? In the best style of the Soviets, it is proposed to create “communal apartments” in kindergartens. Good practice or bad practice? I think that those who have lived may have been blessed with living in a communal apartment, can look at and compare all the advantages and disadvantages of their common way of life. The second thing is language knowledge and language, as Mr Kirstein said, socialisation. Socialisation is not all language learning, socialisation is a child, a future citizen, a sense of social society, a social environment. And it depends not on the language it is happening, but on how it is incorporated. That's the second moment. The third moment I would very much like to say. We want to make... Especially the National Union wants to make everyone happy. All who live in Latvia. They must be happy. Only a sense of happiness is expressed in the National Alliance's programme today. Does it also satisfy all the others who have not voted in favour of the National Union? I don't think everyone is. I think the most dangerous thing here is to experiment with children's education, with children as such. Because it's very... similar to pedophilia. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U277	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U278	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Looking at the summary for each of the Members of this Saeima, such a oppressive majority is with higher education. If we look at these specific amendments - Proposal 3 - it is clear that we are all aware in this Chamber that the national language is of no nationality. And I'm just surprised to hear from the former Minister of Education debate on this issue... to call things like the Holocaust, nationality, ethnic struggles... (Applause) It's just... I hope you will never, ever enter this post... with a view to the following amendments: If there is a setting here, see Latvians, Russians, Kyrgyzstan... regardless of nationality. These amendments concern the use of the language, the national language. Ensure kindergartens, pre-school institutions... So give the opportunity also to the places where minority languages are... Not even nationality... crèches of minority languages, kindergartens of linguistic minority rather than kindergartens of nationality. Don't call them... even call - Russian kindergartens. They are in Russian, linguistic minority. A here is this setting, that on nationalities... Yes, I admit, we divide society. Here on strengthening of the state language in kindergartens, providing an opportunity in kindergarten, which is either about municipal funds or about state funds maintained, to give the child an opportunity to study in kindergarten in the state language. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “They already learn the language of the country!” ) There is no such possibility! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunovo intersage.) Mrs Lochmeles-Lunovo, it is really pointless for you to debate this issue. Clearly, you have to defend your constituents! There is no question here about voters, but about access to infrastructure (the kindergartens are infrastructure) and children... children, parents who want to let their children learn the language of the country. Here, too, we should not put questions of competitiveness into practice when children learn one language or the other. There's no need to counterset languages. Knowledge of any foreign language is a wealth for any child. And it is also mandatory to go to a kindergarten or school to acquire or train a language is not necessarily the main catalyst. I got two girls myself. They're so intense... We have a choice: to put children in a kindergarten or not to let them go. But her self-learning is free already... free language in English. So we don't go here with such arguments! Clearly, the state language has been strengthened... and give parents the opportunity to give their children in schools where they can learn the exact language of the country... I call for this amendment to be supported. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U279	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U280	Hello, dear colleagues! I hope that we will debate this issue calmly. Actually, that's the first big problem that causes such a sharp reaction to everything... The majority of the debate is that there are currently seven and a half thousand children in Latvia in municipal kindergartens. That's the first thing. And that's an important thing. If we found out that seven and a half thousand children have no places in the first class, no places in the school, we would react much harder. We are used to it, we say: something is slowly absorbed there, and these things are somehow balanced with a private kindergarten... private kindergartens. It is, in fact, a fundamental problem. And the most surprising thing is that in fact the big municipalities are not addressing this issue for a long time. Riga, unfortunately, also Liepaja I have to remember... is also on that list. Also, municipalities with impressive resources solve completely other issues, do not solve kindergarten... We have sent a letter to the government. The government has responded with the current loan programme for borrowings to build kindergartens. And it is quite clear that in the future under review, kindergartens should be sufficient for all children. There was a question from Mrs Ločmele about how this situation is developing. This initial proposal relates to Article 9 of the Education Act, which lays down the procedure for the language of instruction... And so this debate, this debate... You see a proposal from the Legal Bureau that coincides with that from Member Dzintara... One thing to say, however, is that at the moment there is no clear mechanism at the disposal of the Commission in what way it will happen. That is the big problem. In fact, the Ministry of Education and Science, as a policy-maker, must create a very clear order for this to be understood. The absence of such a procedure is most worrying on all sides. Because we don't say for a moment that it won't be... that there will be only one and there will be no other educational programme; both of them remain. The mechanism is not clear at the moment. Here it is said that the Commission has a duty to... so there is a deadline for the submission of proposals. So there will be proposals. Second. Until the committee looks at the third reading and the Saeima will consider the third reading, listen to the Ministry of Education and Science as policy makers intend to do so. It is just as well that you listen to the heads of the local government who, in practice, are realising all this - at which there will be clarity about deficits, how it will be regulated... what regulation will be put in place in specific municipal educational institutions. So I call you to calm down. The Commission is currently working. The Ministry of Education and Science, I hope, also works. And we will resolve this in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U281	Thank you. Colleagues! We are currently debating proposal 2. The Bureau has a proposal to close the debate on proposal 2. Complete the debate on proposal 2 and then stop. Are there any objections? ( Milestones.) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We are debating 2. ( Milestones.) ... About... So on proposal 3... Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. No, colleagues, no... We are currently debating proposal 2. Proposal No 2... Again (Military) ... Colleagues! I repeat... Colleagues, I repeat: we are currently debating proposal 2. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. V. Dombrovskis: “What difference!” ) Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U282	Dear colleagues, I also turn to you, Mr. Cole... First of all, I would like to remind you that I have been in the position of Minister for Education and Science since then thanks to the support of the National Alliance, for which I am still grateful. Go on. Mr Kola, as Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I think it is most likely that a few days ago, Mrs Mūrniece, the Speaker of the Saeima, received a letter from the OSCE High Commissioner for Minorities. What has been said in this letter, Mr Kola, between the rows, is that this proposal, the proposal of the National Alliance, which you are now defending, on the question of kindergartens after... between rows speaking, you could only come from... Well, people with a medieval minority. ( Internouncing call.) Therefore, Mr Kola, since you are defending such medieval thinking, I think that you too have some chance of becoming an official of a country of the European Union, perhaps a foreign minister, I think it is close to zero, Mr Kola... because then you need something to mature to that European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U283	The name of the Member Anita Muižniece for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U284	Yes, hello! Very short. Mrs Regina Lochmeles-Lunova... probably it was hard to understand, well, that sort of elementary thing, I think... Or there is a second option. At a time when logical arguments are lacking, people begin to distort the facts, to draw them out of context. It turns out that, as we all know, there's also false news, isn't it... And that, in my opinion, just happened from this troupe, because indeed, the second proposal tabled by Mr Raivis Dzintars, speaking... There is a quote: ‘if a child’s parents so request...’, but there is another part of the beginning that speaks of excluding this comment from the first-reading version of the accompanying sentence. And you did not mention this exclusion. Then, in response to how it goes together, this partial support with a further proposal from the Legal Office, in which this observation no longer appears. Well, I hope I've explained now that first of all you can't come just from the pub to lie and tell you that there's something wrong, and ask someone to explain something simply by distorting the facts. These are interrelated proposals. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “I understood it, thank you!” ) Don't answer me!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U285	The name to Member Richard Cole for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U286	Yes, Mr. Dombrovskis, however, I should have a replica. Is the OSCE... Yes, of course, there are different experts who appreciate our laws, including those relating to minorities, and they are not coming here with a final conclusion and a specific mandate to initiate some procedures. When they come, they ask questions about how it connects with international law, norms. We, meeting with such representatives from the OSCE, explain very calmly why it is being created, as is the case with international law, and I have not heard any OSCE representative leaving Latvia with bitterness of heart because Latvia is moving contrary to international law or violates best practices. So that your deception that here... that somebody comes here that this is a signal that we are completely on the wrong track... This is misleading society. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U287	The name to Member Rainis Znotiņš for the second time. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U288	Yeah, I wanted to answer... Mr Asheraden's reply, which pointed out some three times that the Ministry of Education and Science did not have a concrete plan to implement this. I must say, Mr Asheraden, that you have been in politics for 10 years and that over these 10 years, you have not had a concrete plan for introducing this. The Ministry of Education and Science has a plan how to implement this, and we will do so. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “How!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U289	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U290	Ma'am! I'm ashamed that your profession is called a pedagogist if you're allowed to speak in such a tone... ( Milestones.) Thank you. Thank you. If you allow Members of the Saeima to speak in such a tone, it is hard for me to imagine how you talk to your children. That's the first. Second. You have just confirmed my concerns and, in principle, you are opposed to the chair of the Commission, Mr Asheraden, who has just confirmed that the debate will continue, that it is not clear what the order will be. You have also in fact confirmed the "Development/About!" concerns as to whether this draft law is in line with the spirit of Europe. This was about a letter addressed to the Saeima Bureau - whether we are aware of what we are doing. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.) You could ask me to listen a little bit, huh? I will now be acting as a representative of your profession (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U291	Colleagues! The interdependencies are permitted during the debate, but they must not interfere with the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U292	I'll go on. So it's about whether kindergartens in all groups, starting with children from a very small age - from two, from three years of age - will speak only Latvian or native language. You are for the only language of the country. ( Milestones.) That was a question. That was a question! What are you doing? Ask your parents that this will not be the case?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Sounds like noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Nationalists!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U293	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U294	Colleagues! A lot of emotions, a lot of things has been said. A really important issue for the whole of Parliament. But I would like to touch a little on what Mr Asheraden said... and marked the problem of the development of kindergartens. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) And I'd like to say that... You say that the problem of the construction of kindergartens is solved by you through this budget. Here I do not agree with you. Seven million - this may only be the only way to solve the problem, but in no case can we even get closer to solving the problem. The problem is much wider than seven million.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U295	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U296	Dear colleagues, I don't even know what the worry is about. We know very well that the biggest problems with kindergartens are in Riga, where up to seven thousand children are out of municipal kindergartens and forced to go in private kindergartens. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papules and dep. R. Lochmele-Lunovo intersage.) Why do they go in private kindergartens? Because, see, in municipal kindergartens, they do not have the opportunity to learn the curriculum in the state language. And not only Latvian children go to these private kindergartens, but also Russian and other national children, because parents believe that their child needs this education in Latvian. Then there is the question: where do these educators come from in private kindergartens, and what do they mean by the lack of educators? If private people are able to attract educators, then I think the municipality will also be able to attract relevant Latvian educators. ( Internouncing call.) That's one. Next. I think that this is a cosmetic reform that gives all children the opportunity to learn the Latvian language programme when going to the municipal garden. The other thing would be if the municipality did not pay for minority education at all and education would be available only in Latvian; then, I understand, there would be a great concern. But right now, right now! - to justify its inaction with unknown arguments, to some ununderstood, it is now completely out of place and completely unacceptable. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. A. Gobzem: “Make selfy! You didn't make a selfie out of the podium this time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U297	The name to Member Arvil Asheraden for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U298	I really regret to my colleagues that I have deceived you and that the Ministry of Education and Science has a plan because, I must say, until now the parliamentary secretary has not found time to come to the commission. ( Intercretion: “Uow! ”) (Laughter) I have to admit when Mrs Muižniece was, indeed, that cooperation was bright. I got every question answered, I got all this to know. Mr. Znotiņš, please come here and tell me what your plan is, what to do. (Applause) (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U299	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time. (Laughter) Sounds like noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Colleagues, let's continue the debate!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U300	Dear colleagues, The time really has come to laugh at the Bible. I understand that, according to Mr Kola, the High Commissioner for the OSCE, by sending the relevant document to the Saeima Bureau, has, after negotiations with Richard Kola, wept and asked for the document to be returned. But I feel much more serious about this debate, which has just taken place between the Chair of the Education, Culture and Science Commission and the Parliamentary Secretary of Education and Science. I am sorry if, today, we are looking at the proposals that have taken place in the commission, and that is the question of what the mechanism is for embodying and realizing this proposal and bringing it into practice is not known to the commission... Knowing the previous practice that, unfortunately, the provisions prepared in connection with the amendments adopted in the law, not always in the Cabinet of Ministers, I will say so softly, not always in line with the articles of the law, the letter and not just the spirit, then this problem is very serious. And, in my view, it would be right if the head of the commission climbed into the quarry and asked to return the draft law to the Commission (allowed by the Rule of Procedure) in order to introduce clarity on this very serious issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U301	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U302	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I urge you to calm down. In front of three more proposals, there will be enough space to speak in full. At the same time, I would like to remind you that perhaps all the speakers who have now commented on this particular proposal 3 in a few words have obviously responded to what I have already said as a challenge. But the only thing I said is that this proposal, tabled by the National Association and supported at first reading by the Saeima, is, in my view, not ready. It is a political declaration, but in fact... who will be on the ground, no one knows. And such a brave step just... not to act prudently, right. And more. This proposal is not at all debated in society. No minority child even asked parents what... whether they want to, what risks they see... This debate is just beginning, the debate will begin. I hope that the Chair of the Commission on Education, Culture and Science will also be so generous and also courageous to address those parents who now wish to address the Saeima. I invite you to participate in the discussion with the public, but this time this proposal is not to be supported, but to adopt a different solution that is smarter and would satisfy all Latvians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U303	I closed the debate. Proposal No 2 on behalf of the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U304	Yeah. Then I would like to remind you that the draft law was supported not only by the majority of the Saeima Members. It was supported by the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ombudsman and the Latvian Municipal Union, which is very important. Here we are talking about municipal responsibilities. Neither the draft law in general nor the specific proposal we are discussing at the moment do we prohibit children from learning foreign languages. Moreover, it does not exclude the possibility of implementing minority programmes. Yes, the Commission has a discussion about the fact that the Ministry of Education and Science should come up with a report, and that will also be done. How to move progressively over the longer term towards public language learning at all levels of education. But this specific draft law and the specific proposals we are discussing are a very different matter. It is a question of solving an acute problem, which in no way predicts that it will no longer be possible to have minority programmes in pre-school institutions at present or that everything in these programmes will have to be implemented in Latvian. So I will remind you that the Commission has supported and incorporated this proposal3. - a proposal from the Legal Office. If someone requests a vote, I call accordingly for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U305	Does one of the Members request a vote? There was a debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “We spoke terribly for a long time!” ) No? ( The box “No! ”) “Yes!” ) And... Requesting a voter Gobzem. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Dzintara's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 46, against - 23, refraining from - 8. The proposal is supported. Please turn on the microphone for Gundar Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U306	Dear colleagues, I think that we have come to the opposite point of view at the moment than the commission wanted. Yeah... because, if we supported proposal 2, then 3, it is no longer possible to vote. The 'no' 2 had to be voted, as it had been included in 3 and the 'yes' proposal had to be voted in favour of 3. That is how I remember the times when I led the Saeima sittings. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U307	No, it's not. Dear colleagues, The Bureau recommended that we vote both on proposal 2 and on proposal 3. And they're not mutually exclusive. ( Milestones.) We agreed to put an end to the debate on proposal 2. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name of the Member, Martin Bondar, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U308	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, This time on the meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is highly likely that there will be a meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission at 17.00. It's a big chance!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U309	Thank you. Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U310	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Inga Goldberga, Inese Ikstena, Armands Krauze, Atis Lejiņš, Evija Papule (Dep. E. Papule: “I am, I am!” )... Papule ir, Jānis Vitenbergs, Inese Voika, Jānis Vucāns. ( Interface: “Vitenberg is! ” ) Wittenberg is.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U311	Thank you. Interruption until 3:45 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U312	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. The draft law on the amendment to the Law on General Education is on the agenda, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U313	Okay. Dear colleagues, We've reached three. - The proposal by the Legal Office, which also refers to the wording of the second paragraph of Article 21, and the proposal by the Legal Office, not only provides for the deletion of this subsidiary sentence ‘if requested by the parents of the child...’, but also for the clarification that we are talking about pre-school institutions under the authority of municipalities, unlike the first reading, where it was intended, either for pre-school institutions located in an administrative territory, as well as for the deletion of the explanatory note ‘including pre-school establishments selling pre-school programmes in minority languages’. Then, if we are talking about all the institutions under the authority of a municipality, logically this also includes this condition that it is a language of minorities. So for the purpose of hypocriticality, there's... the majority of the Commission supported this version of the Legal Office, which I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U315	4. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. The second paragraph of Article 21 shall be supplemented by the words "continuing the implementation and the quality of the programme to be implemented in minority languages". So, if at the moment they are local governments, actually, free possibilities to continue... and after the adoption of this law, it is possible to continue implementing the minority programme... Do not continue. This sets out the obligation to continue the implementation of such a programme. The wording "without lowering its quality" is also sufficiently widely interpreted and understood and, in the light of these considerations, the majority of the Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U316	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U317	Dear colleagues, The rapporteur spoke quite articulately about the text and content of my proposal. I am only left to justify my proposal, and this justification has its value - in my view. You see, everything we are discussing today in the afternoon is ethnopolitik. I mean, different societies... interests of persons belonging to the company... belonging to different ethnic groups... finding and strengthening balance in law. I have already said quite clearly that there is no doubt that the interests of people belonging to the fundamental nationalities are protected in the country. Culture, language - protected, and there must be provision for legislation as it will evolve. If we are talking about the Republic of Latvia, then it is Latvian culture. At the same time, Latvia's minorities... minorities have their own interests. They also care about the special nature of their culture... maintain and develop their culture by teaching their children first and foremost in the family language. The democratic countries have learned to resolve these contradictions by adopting fundamental legal rules that recognise the "right of persons belonging to national minorities to preserve and develop their language, ethnic and cultural specificities". End of quote. It is laid down in Article 114 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. Seeking to learn family language has long been identified as a determining factor in the attitude of minorities towards the state, its fairness and democratic values. As a result of the long analytical work of experts, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe has concluded that the most important, priority cause of the gap between minorities and the public authorities is insufficient provision of minority education, in particular minority language education. In order to contribute to the prevention of conflicts at their earliest possible stage, the OSCE adopted in 1996 the Recommendations on the Right to Education of Minorities. Foreword of the recommendation: "It is clear that education is an extremely important element in maintaining and developing the identity of persons belonging to a minority." End of quote. But specifically on pre-school education, the following recommendation is made: "The first years of education are crucial for the development of the child. The results of studies in the educational process show that pre-school training should take place in the basic language of the child. Countries should, wherever possible, create the conditions for parents to make such choices." End of quote. And on the basis of this conclusion, as well as Article 114 of the Satversme and the preamble to the Satversme “Latvia... Respect Minorities”, I propose to supplement the norm adopted in the section “Accessibility of Pre-school Education” at first reading on the learning of pre-school education programmes in the state language with the words “continuing the implementation of the programme implemented in minority language and not weakening its quality”. During the meeting of the committee responsible, the opponents said that my proposal should be rejected because they intend to carry out programmes in minority languages in kindergartens (i.e., quotes) “during a pointless period of time”; in their opinion, there is no point in Latvia. I regard this position as immoral, and I recommend that such opponents read the Constitution again. Others comforted me that (I will also quote) “the amendment of the law does not prohibit the implementation of programmes in minority languages”. We heard the same today. ‘ Therefore, continuing to do something that is not intended to be deleted is pointless.” It is amusing to say this by Members who are calling for Latvian kindergartens completely. In the meantime, the keywords of my proposal are "without weakening the quality of the execution of the programme". There is a huge risk that this will happen and that the rights of children and their parents will be violated. I propose that any reform should retain what already exists and is required. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U318	The debate has not yet been closed. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U319	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! I regret that the majority of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science did not support Mr Pimenova's proposal. The fact that the members of the Latvian Saeima rejected his skillful amendment indicates that integration policy in Latvia has gone along the skuju path. Without providing a declared norm with a specific mechanism of implementation, minorities in Latvia remain only declarations. In fact, for the last couple of years Latvian state governments, ministries, legislators and judiciary have consistently implemented the policy of assimilation of national minorities and the elimination of their language and cultural specificity. Member Pimenova's proposal offered only a minimal state guarantee in respect of young children. I am surprised by the negative reaction of our parliamentarians, fellow Members. Have you not gone to the kindergarten... in the native Latvian language... while Latvia was ruled by so-called terrible Communist occupation? But in a democratic country in which we are about to mark the 30th anniversary, even in this little thing... To kindergartens... is not possible. Shame! Perhaps national Members are afraid that Russian kindergartens will teach fairy tales in which the ideology of the empire is hidden. Then change the educators! Legislation allows Members to pursue the activities of a teacher, and I ask those colleagues from the National Alliance who are currently voting against Mr Pimenova's proposal to try themselves as a pre-school teacher in the role of minority children. In this fragile age, children only develop thinking, and it is critical that the first steps in education take place in a language where their mother speaks to the child. Otherwise, the child will get a psychological injury all his or her life. Of course, this situation, too, will not contribute to loyalty to the state of Latvia. Article 5 of the General Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of National Minorities declares the prohibition of assimilation policy. Since Latvia has signed and ratified this important international document, it must respect its rules. Colleagues, show respect for European law and vote in favour of Mr Pimenova's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U320	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U321	So, let the public not understand. I have, of course, always been and I am, and I will be sure that citizens of the Republic of Latvia and those parents, Latvians who want to send their children to the Latvian kindergarten should provide this opportunity. But this must be ensured by the construction of new kindergartens. This needs to be ensured by creating new places for teachers and paying teachers good wages. This is the solution for parents who want to send children in Latvian kindergartens to achieve results. That's one thing. What is unacceptable to me when I discuss this issue, which, in my opinion, does not indicate a high-quality argument that the representative of the National Alliance, Mr. Kola, is walking up in the troupe and says: “This is the right thing, because my children learned English at home, so we adopt such a law.” Well, in principle it is. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Col: “You mentioned an example of your children – I mentioned an example of my own!” ) Well, I looked, I looked at the house, and that's why I accepted... Let us therefore make such a law. In my opinion, this is not exactly the right reasoning. In my opinion, the correct counter argument is not like that either... I understand that we may have different opinions, we may have different opinions, but I think it would not be possible to accept... That shows that my argument is correct - that from the point of view of what I am saying, Sandis Riekstins, who has almost no education at all, only the average, seems to me. He is the greatest specialist on education issues, leaving the place rather than climbing into a platform and reasoning why such a norm or direction would be justified. It would be very interesting for me to hear a well-founded, reasoned opinion. I think it would be interesting for society as a whole to hear that view. That's the other thing. And the third thing. Let's say, argue about children's education, call there... Either something Shlesser or something -- it's just silly. It's stupid for the reason... I think we all talk when the microphones are switched off. We are united that the competitiveness of our children is possible only if our children teach more than one language, more than only Latvian. Today's working conditions are such that the biggest... the largest employers working in Latvia must speak foreign languages in daily workplaces; moreover, at least one, if not two, foreign languages must be spoken. That is why I am just saying that we need to give our children, our children, the opportunities for the future - to learn as many languages as possible. And I think... It seems intuitive to me that it is my intuitive, subjective and perhaps wrong, but it is my belief! - That's the way you're going... And for my confidence you don't need to be angry... that the way you are going is making the quality of our children's education worse. That is why I am also expressing this view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U322	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U323	Colleagues! I told you earlier that the people of Latvia do not want this segregation. Let me give you one example. I know a Russian-born person who wanted to put his children in a kindergarten where they can learn Latvian. But there was no such opportunity in the area where he lived. He wanted his children to go to the Latvian kindergarten and learn Latvian so that he could talk to his children in Russian at home in his family. And he didn't have that opportunity. This is another proof that the citizens of Latvia, the citizens of Latvia, do not want this segregation. Citizens of Latvia want to learn one language and be a united society. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U324	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U325	I agree and at the same time oppose Mr. Znotiņš - I agree that there is not enough Latvian kindergartens, but if you take again from the point of view of argumentation: "Well, I know one... “ Then I can set a hundred examples of how many people I know have found opportunities and have done the opposite. That cannot be an argument. Where is the root of the problem? The root of the problem is that you, BIP, but... the Ministry of Education and Science is responsible for you, but you are not a priority for education, you are a priority to build a prison. It's the biggest thing to do about it. Remember, before the budget was adopted, everyone who was... You didn't fight to have 140 million for preschool education, you fought for 140 million for the Liepaja prison, where you could probably make an otkat. That is the problem. The problem is that in the field of education, you have no fight for quality education as such, you have fights in other fields where business could be built. You're not fighting for the country to pay all the children in the holiday kindergartens, schools... and in that spirit. That is why I think it is a false patriotism, a false problem. It needs to be dealt with in a different way. Give the budget to kindergartens and build kindergartens so that all children can go in Latvian kindergartens! This would solve their problem in an elementary way. Then there would be no need for such a path that you have chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U326	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U327	On behalf of the Latvian people, however, Mr. Znotiņš has probably forgotten what we are talking about today. We are talking about a specific proposal from Member Igor Pimenov, where, to be honest, there is an absolutely clear spirit and signs of constructiveism. He's not against anything. This proposal calls for the programmes that already exist today to be maintained and maintained. This is important, especially in view of the spirit of our discussions... and, to be honest, they are not always acceptable forms either. And in this respect, I would also like to say: we lack, forgive, a spirit of goodness in our discussions. We often see each other as an enemy to fight, to fight, to destroy, to destroy. We are all Latvian citizens. We are all patriots of Latvia without exception. We have different perceptions of how to make our lives and the lives of our children better, but it is a question of discussion, not an insult and as another... a word roving case. I call for support for Mr Pimenova's proposal, also showing that we are in favour of a spirit of goodness in education. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U328	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U329	Say hello again! We need to remember that Riga and Latvia have always been a multinational capital and state. It was hundreds of years. And for us in Riga, that's why... and there are eight more different minority schools in Latvia, and there are also many Russian minority schools... Because there are its traditions. The fact that other parents send their children wherever they want is their duty and desire. Every parent wants to give his or her children the best education, and that is to be welcomed, but we, as servants of the people, need to ensure that everyone has their only right to live in that country, to provide them with both education and living. We are paid for this, and so people, the people, elected us. Look who's there... on the sign on the wall! That's what we need to do, not that everyone has... What, I don't know, there's insults... about hundreds of years ago, and now we live with that hatred. We live in the 21st century. When you came to work for 13. The Saeima, here, talked about the arrival of young, strong Members with European education. Well, show me that you really have a good European education! Thank you. I support Pimenova's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U330	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U331	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, We will be voting in a few seconds. I ask Mr Znotiņš to listen to my proposal first... his colleagues, too. Add the first-reading norm on pre-school education in the state language with the words “continuing the implementation and not weakening the quality of the programme to be implemented in the minority language”. Where did you hear, Mr Znotiņš, segregation in such a proposal or a desire to divide society? Well, there's a question. It's forbidden to debate the floor, but now there's a chance, come to me, and we'll talk in two! What is more, we are both on two commissions - both the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and the European Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U332	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U333	Good afternoon! I am very pleased that, when we look at this proposal, our discussion is going into a more polite form and, in my opinion, much more appropriate to where we are at the moment. Specifically on this proposal. In my view, the intention is perhaps a good one, and yet this is the norm... Why do I believe that this should not be supported... because to continue implementing programmes in minority language... The approved version does not prevent this from happening at the moment, which has already been explained in advance. The point about not lowering quality is so strange, it would be like inserting in the law after all the articles: “You must not violate the law! And then remember once again that you must not offend!” It is clear that all educational programmes have the appropriate quality to ensure. If this is not the case, there is a public service for the quality of education, where you can turn to and complain accordingly. Therefore, write in law the fact that quality must not be reduced - now that norm has no real weight. That is why, in the Commission too, we did not believe that this should be supported. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U334	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, what else is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U335	Dear colleagues, The second paragraph of Section 9 of the Education Law establishes the right to implement pre-school education programmes in minority language. In order to implement the amendment that we are talking about, it is necessary to adopt changes to both the General Education Act, with which we are working today, and the Education Act, where we also... The Commission has just voted in favour of the second reading... closed at second reading. We plan to see at the next sitting. None of these laws... The second paragraph of Article 9 shall not be amended and the rules contained therein shall not in any way be called into question or challenged. Consequently, the majority of the Commission did not see the need to support this proposal by Mr Pimenova, with particular emphasis on the fact that there is... Implementation of the programmes to be implemented in minority languages is ongoing. Because it follows this logic that we could make proposals for any law, any article, to say that we will continue with Article 1, we will continue with Article 2, we will continue with Article 3. Of course, until this article is repealed, it is valid. Consequently, no justification was found by the majority of the members of the committee to support such a provision. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U336	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U337	5. - the proposal of Member Igora Pimenova, which requires the municipality to ensure that pre-school education is provided in minority language at pre-school institutions located in its administrative territory if there is sufficient demand. The Commission did not support these proposals either, given that it is not clear what this sufficient request is. And municipalities already have the right to implement these programmes. To create a new obligation or to ask the Cabinet of Ministers to set criteria, in the opinion of the majority of committee members it was not... it is not necessary, but the majority of the members of the commission did not support the introduction of such a new obligation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U338	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U339	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The Council of Europe, by promoting respect for human rights in Europe, has strengthened them in its basic instruments, well known. Countries which, although signed and ratified by reservations and declarations, have committed themselves to do so. These include the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, which Latvia ratified in 2005. The second paragraph of Article 114 of the Convention lays down the policy to be pursued with regard to respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities in the field of education. In particular, within the framework of national education systems, countries undertake, if there is sufficient demand, to ensure, as far as possible, that persons belonging to national minorities have adequate opportunities to learn the language of a minority or to acquire education in that language in the territory of which persons of national minorities are historically or in large numbers. If the State is indeed willing to fulfil its commitments, it is necessary to establish the criteria of adequacy. I agree. In view of the fact that the amendments affecting the possibilities of carrying out pre-school programmes in minority languages are included in the Article of the Education Law on the Competence of Local Authorities in Education, also establishing adequacy criteria is the competence of local governments, Mr Dzintaras. I propose to supplement Section 21 of the Law on Access to Pre-school Education with a new part in the following wording (please quote): “Local municipality is obliged to ensure that pre-school education programmes are acquired in minority language at pre-school institutions located in its administrative territory if there is sufficient demand.” Even after my proposal had been examined by the Commission, the Saeima received a letter from the OSCE Commissioner, in which he called "to consider the inclusion of security measures allowing pupils from minority backgrounds to continue to receive pre-school education in their mother tongue if decided by their parents". ‘ I would suggest,” the Commissioner continues, “for example, that the municipality should include an obligation to provide early childhood education programmes in minority languages at pre-school institutions located on its territory if there is sufficient demand.” Opponents in the Commission suggested that such regulation is already in the sole responsibility of the municipality. Mr Dzintara has just confirmed the same thing: that it is both comprehensive and deals with each particular case. In particular, Article 25 describes the conditions for setting up a preprimary education establishment, 26. - admission to a pre-school institution. So everything has already been solved. However, a declaratory regulation creates irresponsibility and also an opportunity to do nothing. This is even demonstrated by Members during the commission meeting. Member Dzintars said at the meeting of the committee responsible on 22 January that (quote): “It would be absurd to oblige the municipality of Sigulda to interview its parents once a year in order to see if they need Russian groups.” ( End quoted) On the other hand, I believe that in a democratic country it is not an absurd task of the municipality to find out whether parents of children in Cesis need pre-school education programmes in Russian. That's the norm. In the absence of such surveys, some families will never have access to a kindergarten where an educational programme in their family language would be implemented. It is therefore necessary to describe in the legal provisions the prerequisites for launching a minority education programme. If this is the case, the municipality is obliged to adopt appropriate binding rules, and that is where the criteria, which the rapporteur also spoke about, will be described. I call on you to support my proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U340	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U341	Dear colleagues, I got something to tell you here. For the first time, declaratory requirements for kindergartens can divide society. ‘ Latvia does not need policies that promote ethnic hatred and distrust for the state. The best interests of all Latvian children are kindergartens, which provide both a program in the state language and support for the mother tongue of children from minority families. There is no need to be “Latvian” and “Russian” kindergartens; there should be a unified and sympathetic education system that strengthens and intersects all people of Latvia. Currently, the Education Act guarantees pre-school education in the state language, but a large part of the problems arise at municipal level, which does not provide these opportunities because of political will and lack of resources. In our view, these problems can be solved through targeted and joint work, rather than through the acceleration of initiatives." I, my colleagues, do not hear any appeal from the "Development/About!" Part I: Details I just read their public announcement. That's not your name? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakatistov's intermediate call. Depp. Feldman: “No one is listening! It's been a long time!” ) No, it doesn't sound. Well, what are you gonna do? I guess you deny your authority to these words... Was it not your words, “Development/About!” Colleagues? And this one, colleagues! You should also know before you vote... at least. I'm not talking about this part. But those of you who speak so often about European values and so on. We are talking about the same OSCE High Commissioner for Minorities, about his letter. I saw here that Mr. Cole hadn't been there for some time. I hope that he has nevertheless found and read that letter. Then this proposal by Mr Pimenova is exactly what the OSCE High Commissioner recommends. And if you vote against this proposal, not only do you vote against Mr Pimenova's proposal, you will vote against the proposal of the OSCE High Commissioner for Minorities... on this draft law. Those of you who so often like to talk about European values... I think you should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U342	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained on behalf of the Commission about proposal 5?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U343	Yeah. I just wanted to emphasise that this is not a proposal from the OSCE Commissioner. It is a motion from Member Igor Pimenova, which has not been supported by the Commission. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U344	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U345	6. - the proposal of Member Papule, which provides for the deletion of the provision laid down in Article 35 that the duration of the training shall be determined by the head of the educational establishment. We have already discussed the duration of the training course in the context of proposal 1. Here too, the reasoning is similar. Members decided to decide on this at a separate sitting. And at the moment, there is no proposal in the Commission to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U346	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U347	As all the proposals have been examined, I call for support for the draft law as a whole at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U348	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on General Education. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U349	The deadline is February 28th.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U350	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February this year. Colleagues! Changes to the sittings approved by the Saeima Bureau have been tabled (Interinstitutional statement). ... You have not been invited to speak on the platform. ( Internouncing call.) Changes to the agenda for the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau have been tabled. Members Zakaistov, Puga, Pucens, Ģirgens and Benhen-Beeken are asked to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. And Members Zakaistov, Eglytis, Asheraden, Adamovich and Jansons are asking that the draft law be put on the agenda after the draft law "Amendment to the General Education Act". Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. And the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft decision on the approval of the composition of the Central Land Commission be put on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Jānis Vitenbergs as Chairman of the Central Land Commission” be put on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Zakatistova, Pugas, Pucens, Girgen and Benhen-Beken's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that he is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U351	Colleagues! I call on the Commission to refer the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Excise Duty". It is difficult to talk about this draft law because it concerns a sensitive topic in society. It's excise alcohol. And we know each individual and probably every family an example that people's lives end up in great ruin precisely because of the consumption of alcoholic beverages. However, in this case, I think we should not look at individual examples, but look at this issue more systematically. And if we think about this issue more systematically, we need to understand that there are at least three things that need to be addressed. First. This is, of course, public health. We want people to be healthier and drink less alcohol. Second. It is an economic issue, because alcoholic beverages are produced, alcoholic beverages are traded, and that means jobs, it means money turnover, and that inevitably means employment. But there is also a third thing. And the third thing is consumption. Consumption is not a simple thing in the sense that consumption is constant. Their consumption could be called, well, such a permanence. It could be called a bad tradition or a deplorable tradition that is rooted in our people. And this tradition is, well, we have to look at the truth in our eyes, the tradition of drinking. Not long ago, I read in 1931... Last century... In 1931... published in Latvian articles. And that book summarises the traditions of our people in the 19th century. There are described swine funerals, there are described fertilizers, there are described various family measures. One thing I've paid attention to is the 19th century people... It was written that when all the works were done, it started... (and I quote) “normal drinking”. Its book is also translated in French, because the lingua franca was French at that time, and the French “normal drinking” is translated as a boire ordinari. Unfortunately, we have to say that, yes, this stable tradition and the tradition of consumption is regrettable, but a permanent thing in Latvia. If we imagine an average small town on an average Friday... An average residential building with 100 apartments is definitely more than 50 apartments with a drink. Thus, if we think systemically and if we want people to drink less, we need to make it more expensive, but it can make it more expensive, only by proportionately raising excise duties. If we raise excise duties in a disproportionate way, then we start to break ourselves, it will affect health, it will affect the economy, it will not act wisely. At present, the law provides for an increase of 35 percent from 1 March to 1 March. With this increase, we will not achieve systemic results either in public health or in the economy or in such a drinking tradition. In this proposal, as a group, we are proposing to increase excise duty, but to do so gradually. Our offer is to increase by five per cent in the first year and by five per cent in the second year, leaving the same thing in the third year... alcohol excise duty... strong alcohol and beer. This issue has been on the agenda, and indeed it has been sensitive, but in our opinion (and this has also been agreed by the Ministry of Finance), five per cent is a proportionate increase in alcohol excise duty, which will ensure systemic improvement of both public health and economic stability, and will also reduce our destructive tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U352	“Pret” has applied to speak by Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U353	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High honourable Members! I would like to remind you and all of us of some aspects of these amendments to the excise duty law that has been tabled. First. We remember that in August 2019 we reduced excise duty on alcohol. It was a temporary reduction - until March this year. And then there was no discussion about the fact that such a low rate could keep excise duty on alcohol for a longer time. That is first. Secondly. It was hoped that this would bring financial and fiscal benefits. Unfortunately, as the Ministry of Finance also shows, these expectations have not been met. In fact, EUR 25,6 million of the planned excise duty on alcohol has not been collected. And in principle, there is also the conclusion that retail alcohol prices have not decreased. So, in fact, these millions have gone to traders and manufacturers. Thirdly. The rate proposed by the draft law - five per cent - is, I would say, rather small. That's 37 cents per liter of forty-degree alcohol, or 16,5 cents per half a litre of snake. Those 16,5 cents - that's basically nothing, it doesn't make any difference. And it must be said that this offer is intended to keep this rate at this low level in the near, transparent future. And in fact, we will never return to the rate in 2019 by August following the adoption of this proposal. In my opinion, this is wrong and unacceptable: to reduce excise duty on alcohol in the long term. Fourth. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law does not address the health aspect at all. And then, in fact, it turns out that what the Ministry of Health is doing to limit alcohol availability, to eliminate alcoholism will not actually work if we increase the availability of alcohol by reducing taxes and prices through public policies. And five. I would like to say that, of course, there is a need to discuss excise duty on alcohol and this can be done by the Saeima Commission. We are talking today, of course, about transfer or non-transfer to commissions, but I would say that this offer, which has been signed by the members of the CPV LV, is not a compromise between public health and alcohol producers and traders. This is certainly not a compromise. It is in one gate - in favour of producers and traders of alcohol! It's in one gate, because it's going to keep the alcohol excise rate at such a very, very low level! I believe that the compromise could be a return to the rates for 2019, which was before August, before the reduction of rates. It could really be a compromise, and it was... So, 15 percent increase. In fact, this rate, the current rate, should be increased by 15 per cent, and a gradual increase could then be discussed in the coming years. And even if we return to these early rates last year, we will still have a lower excise duty on alcohol than in Estonia - 41 euros less than in Estonia and 185 euros less than in Lithuania. Consequently, we will still have the lowest rate of excise duty on alcohol. So, my fellow Members, I am very, very much calling on you to think carefully and think that it is not just these interests of businessmen in the country, but there is also public interest. Alcoholism causes enormous damage, both to families, to health and to families, to the loss of... breaking up families. These are financial losses not only in the state budget, but also in individual family budgets. I therefore call for such a proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U354	Please turn on the microphone for Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U355	I call for the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs to be set up for the co-responsible commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U356	Colleagues, this is the proposal to refer the draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which is responsible for the Commission, as well as to the Social and Labour Commission. ( Interface: “We are against”!) ) Colleagues, so I hear that Members are against this proposal if? So let's have a split vote. Let us first vote in favour of the transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a commission responsible. Then let us vote in favour of the joint committee. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission in order to determine that it is the committee responsible. Let us now vote in favour of handing over the draft law to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is a co-responsible commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the co-responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 54, for - 7. Thus, the draft law has not been passed on to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs as co-responsible. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Civil Service Law”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U357	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law drafted by the Ministry of Justice “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service” (No. 552/Lp13). This is a measure in the Government Action Plan 174.2. The item is intended to identify and develop the necessary draft legislative acts in order to strengthen the independence of the Constitutional Court on issues concerning guarantees necessary for the status of a judge of the Constitutional Court after the expiry of the term of office. The term of office of a judge of the Constitutional Court is 10 years, therefore it would be in the interests of the State to use this experience for the benefit of the State after the end of the term of office of a judge of the Constitutional Court. Taking into account that not all judges of the Constitutional Court will, after the expiry of their term of office, correspond to the retirement age or choose to retire, these relevant amendments are necessary. The amendments contribute to public confidence in the judiciary, based on strengthening the rule of law and increasing the prestige of the judiciary. The main amendment states that “In the interests of the State, a judge of the Constitutional Court may, within one year after the expiry of the term of office, be appointed as an vacant official if the person meets the requirements for a post”. Supported by the Commission. I invite you to support the draft law at first reading at the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U358	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Service” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U359	20 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U360	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U361	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety” at first reading. On 5 February the committee responsible examined the said draft law relating to codification and decided to support it at first reading. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U362	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U363	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 20 February... This year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U364	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on the privatisation of land in rural areas”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U365	Hello, colleagues! We will work with the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” (No. 525/Lp13) prepared for second reading. There are six proposals received from the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to point out that there was quite an active discussion on such very important issues, in my opinion and those of my colleagues. And the result of the discussion is all the six proposals made by our fellow Member, Mr Mandiņš. The proposal is not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U366	Are Members willing to vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The motion tabled by Member Money! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U367	2. - Mr. Money. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U368	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The motion tabled by Member Money! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U369	3. - Mr. Money. Not supported. ( The paragraphs are: “Why? ” ; “Let’s vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U370	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The motion tabled by Member Money! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U371	4. - Mr. Money. Not supported. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U372	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The motion tabled by Member Money! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 17, against - 59, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U373	5. - Mr. Money. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U374	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The motion tabled by Member Money! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - About - 18 ( Depp. Schmits: “Again! Let's go, let's go! Support is growing!’ ), not - 60, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U375	And also 6. - Mr. Money. Not supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U376	Members shall not request a vote. ( The box “No! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U377	No, no, no, no, no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Schmidt: “No, let’s vote, let’s vote!” (Laughter) Head of the sitting. If Members call for a vote, we must vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U378	If Members call for a vote, we must vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The motion tabled by Member Money! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 59, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U379	Thus, honourable colleagues, all six proposals have been examined, all six voted. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U380	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U381	18 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U382	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U383	Dear colleagues, In the Legal Commission before the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 57 proposals were examined at second reading. Discussions on these proposals were also held at several sub-committee meetings of the Criminal Law Policy before the discussion of the proposals at the meeting of the Legal Commission. And now on the proposals that have been examined. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for the performance of procedural tasks to be subject to compulsory removal by decision. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U385	Proposals 2 and 3 are interrelated. It is intended to prevent lawyers from visiting a person in prison without legal need, by requiring that a lawyer's warrant be submitted without delay to the leader of the proceedings. These proposals also concern proposals 15 and 16. And so two. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Legal Commission is partly supported and included in section 3. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U386	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U387	3. - The legal commission's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U388	Members (Interface: 'vote!') )... Do Members want a vote? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 3. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U389	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. There is a situation where one accused person has several defenders, and if one of them has not arrived, it does not constitute an obstacle to the conduct of proceedings. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U391	Proposals 5 and 6 are linked. It follows from the recommendation of the Ministry of Justice that the lawyer ensures the conduct of the case within reasonable time limits. Under the Sub-Commission, the wording was clarified by stating that the lawyer did not delay the conduct of the case within a reasonable period of time. So five. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, has been partly supported and included 6. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U392	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U393	6. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U395	Proposals 7 and 8 concern the clarification of the rights of the victim. 7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U397	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U399	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Refers to the procedure for the waiver of immunity of judges of the Constitutional Court. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U401	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for the information obtained by a psychologist to be considered as a professional secret and to be procedurally protected. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U403	11. - The legal commission's proposal. Discussions have been held on several occasions at sub-committee meetings. It provides that the decision requesting information from a credit institution shall not be subject to appeal... legally... not subject to appeal. 11. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U404	So 11 Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U405	It's supported. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U406	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U407	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Clarifying rule. It is provided that in criminal proceedings also such information obtained in an operational operation may be used to indicate a criminal offence committed by another person. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U408	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U409	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. There was much debate on this proposal. This is linked to the search at the premises of the legal person and the participation of the natural person representing it. Given the wide scope for interpretation of the proposed provision, the proposal was not supported by the Legal Commission. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U410	Members want to vote in favour of the unsupported proposal if? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U411	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for the transfer of the removed items to the institution concerned at its request (e.g. the transfer of counterfeit documents for educational purposes). Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U412	Members are in favour. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 14. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U413	I'll put a card, I'm sorry. And that's it. Proposals 15 and 16 concern proposal 2 and regulate the right of the detained and accused person to meet the defence. 15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U414	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U415	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U417	17. - the proposal by Member Sprude, which has been declared to be legally incorrect and provides for the replacement of a fine by a security measure - home arrest. The Commission for Legal Affairs is not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U418	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Mrs. Scrape's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U419	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordāns, which provides for the right of the court to transfer from written to oral proceedings if the court considers it necessary, thus extending the possibilities for judges to manage the proceedings. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U421	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan, setting a time limit for lodging a complaint concerning the actual conduct of a judge. This was not foreseen in the past. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U422	Let's start a debate. Name (Dep. A. Gobzem: “No, I don’t want to!” )... Don't you want to debate? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Vote!” ) The Members therefore want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U423	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is editorial. It is necessary to harmonise the norms of the Criminal Procedure Law and the Civil Procedure Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U424	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U425	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan, which led to a wide debate. It provides for the realisation of the arrested virtual currency. This proposal is yet to be discussed before the third reading. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U426	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U427	22. - The legal bureau's proposal, which is editorial. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U429	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is editorial. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U431	Proposal No 24 was drawn up by the Commission for Criminal Law Policy at the initiative of the Office of the Prosecutor General and led as a proposal by the Legal Commission. It provides for the waiver of the examination of written evidence at the hearing. This provision is aimed at limiting possibilities to delay legal proceedings. It should be noted that discussions on this proposal are still pending before the third reading in order to clarify the wording of the provision. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U432	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U433	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which complements the law, laying down the procedure for taking action if a person has been extradited to Latvia from deprivation of foreign liberty. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U435	26. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. It provides for the establishment of a procedure for the replacement of a lawyer in criminal proceedings if the lawyer is unable to participate in a court hearing. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U436	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U437	I would ask colleagues to reflect on the question of supporting this proposal from such a purely legal elementary logic. The relationship between a lawyer and a client is a relationship of trust and there can be no situation where a lawyer is required to provide another lawyer in the proceedings. In fact, it implies that this trust relationship is being terminated. The client is forced to agree in principle to another lawyer, otherwise his interests will deteriorate. The criminal procedure is a very specific process in which all doubts must be proved by their very nature to the maintainer of the charge and not vice versa. And so, if we leave the meaning and construction of criminal proceedings, we cannot restrict, say, the interests and rights of the accused or the person to be tried at this point also in terms of defence. This is detrimental to the relationship between a client and a lawyer, as it is in the classic sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U438	Mr. Judin, would you have enough three minutes? The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U439	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the lawyer is also responsible for handling the case within a reasonable time. And that means that if we want criminal proceedings to take place as quickly as possible, it is very important that a lawyer does not interfere with proceedings. It is no secret that our proceedings, which take a long time, are very often linked to the fact that a lawyer is unable to take part in the proceedings, takes too much time, the sick and so on, and so on. I agree with Mr Gobzem that, of course, it would be ideal if the lawyer made a commitment to work for the client so that he could also carry out this work at all times. But if he can't work, if he can't... if he or she leaves the proceedings, the fact that the proceedings are not moving should not be allowed, where appropriate. That is why we are precisely discussing the possibility... possible options for action to ensure immediate criminal proceedings. And clear: if a lawyer is not useful, if a person does not exactly want that lawyer to help, of course, that there... you can give up on it and think about other solutions. But if a lawyer understands that he will not be able to participate in the proceedings, and there is another person that is acceptable to the client, it will only be good if this person is able to join and participate in the proceedings quickly. That is why I understand your concerns, but I think this solution is the best possible one.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U440	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U441	That's the problem, Mr. Judine, that there's no statistical data. What you're saying here all the time... for the public too - bad lawyers, bad lawyers. The work of the lawyer is to defend the client. Number one. Number two. There is no statistics that delays cases due to lawyers in all so-called major criminals. The party charged shall not interfere with the course of proceedings. Lawyers in those cases also do not interfere with the course of proceedings. The problem is like once that, for us, simply criminal norms and criminal proceedings are built in themselves, it is very much prolonging the process. Very, very. Examples... I would point to just one example. In the Zolitūde case, the accused party has not prevented anyone from... in fact no case. No lawyer. There have been many lawyers there. Nothing like this has happened, but the process is very long because the proceedings that are being carried out need to be repeated exactly as they were in the pre-trial investigation and then duplicated. The judge must question, for example, pointless witnesses who cannot testify to legal facts and evidence simply because the prosecutor's office, for example, has maintained these witnesses... and so in spirit, so that... And I repeat: the Zolitūde case is proof that by maintaining a very large number of witnesses who cannot testify to the facts... In the zolithium case, at least half a year shorter could have been due precisely to the responsibility of the prosecutor's office rather than the responsibility of lawyers. So we don’t have to say from the platform that lawyers are in all the criminals they’re bad and so on. That's absolutely not true. You do not have such statistics. You do not have such statistical data and therefore to manipulate this argument at all would not be objectively permissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U442	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U443	Dear colleagues, All this debate on the length of criminal proceedings and on the fact that we should quickly, quickly, judge all kinds of things, really suggests that we are moving in such a direction... We come back to history. It was - unfortunately - it was! - such cases, when different things were heard very quickly; such troika was completely... There really was no need to listen to the last word of the accused or to have a debate. Everything was very fast. We will, of course, also come to other proposals in this draft law, but, of course, what might perhaps be included in the draft law, even if Mr Judin wishes, could be a ban on lawyers in general. Because they are delaying the process, in your opinion, when you are ill unreasonably. And in principle, I would also like to understand the substance of this proposal in the sense that when a lawyer becomes ill... he/she must in advance coordinate his/her illness with his/her client and senior lawyer in order to ensure that this proposal is implemented. Just ban lawyers from getting sick, ban court hearings and resolve very fast criminal proceedings. And then you will improve statistics very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U444	The name to the Member, Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U445	On the speed of criminal proceedings and troics. Colleagues, it's not normal that we still... For example, in 2020 we are working on a process that started in 2008 or 2009. If we can deal with big things, not in 10 years, but in one and a half or two years... I think the example of the troika is simply unfounded and incorrect. That is, when it comes to acceleration. If theft has taken place in a supermarket, it is only normal that within three to four weeks the case has been dealt with, and that is right and right. I therefore think that the direction towards speeding up criminal proceedings is right and right. What Mr Gobzem said about that absurdity. I ask my fellow Members, if there is time and interest, to read the substance of the proposal! It's very simple. The lawyer cannot participate in the process, he understands it, there are any obstacles. What's his duty? To offer a colleague to replace him. And if the client agrees, this substitute will be able to participate in the process. What's wrong? It is bad that there will not be a situation of appointed court sitting, everyone who should come here, and our accused says, “I don’t have a lawyer!” That's good, do you think? This proposal solves the problem. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U446	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U447	Of course, it is very important to speed up judicial proceedings. I agree with Mr Gobzem in everything he said about the reasons why the courts last for us disproportionately long. But when it comes to this rule, there is a right of defence here. And the proposed option unfortunately does not solve the problem because it allows situations where a person can stay without a lawyer. I think there could have been a solution here, no matter whether he is using a lawyer offered to him by the state. Here... Do you guarantee that the lawyer will have a lawyer in the court hearing? ( Milestones.) This provision does not make it clear and clear, here we read only that if a lawyer is unable to attend, he must ensure that another lawyer is present. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Strike: "Read the proposal before you speak." ) Thank you for your recommendation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Please!” ) I call for this proposal not to be supported, because this proposal, this provision, does not guarantee the defence of a person in court.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U448	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U449	26. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U450	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U451	27. - The legal commission's proposal. Developed on the basis of the initiative of the Association of Journalists to allow audio recording at open court meetings. Further editorial clarifications are expected before the third reading. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U452	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U453	Dear colleagues! I know that I don't like one part here, but listen very carefully! Listen very carefully. This is a very, very, very dangerous proposal from a legal point of view. Imagine that you or your children are victims of criminal proceedings, for example, in the rape case! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Strike: "They are closed sittings, not open sittings! Read the proposal as well, at last!” ) As a virtual proposal, I... I set a virtual example of this, Mrs. Strique, so that you can understand, but you... Here you or your children are victims, such as adult children, no matter. Your relatives. And someone just enters the hall and says: “I want to... I'm recording everything. All about your private life I record.” The course of the criminal case... Although the victim, for example, has said that he doesn't want to be fixed... no matter what the person is on the edge of the audio record of the conduct of such a criminal case. And in this context, it is the most direct violation of personal data protection. That's just why anyone... in this case actually the author of the proposal, who wants to be... so he has what in the yellow press to write so he can record this audio accordingly, then show it... I don't know, the audio record is shown on TV or somewhere else. Supporting this proposal is a violation of personal privacy and, in particular, a victim's abuse that is clear and bright in the courtroom... to say that he does not want everything related to the conduct of the specific criminal proceedings to be recorded from third parties on which data carriers. I understand that here again, with the revolutionary confidence of Mr. Judine and Lieutenant... In principle, this is the proposal by Judine-Leitan... from television... Lieutenant and Judine's proposal. The only reason for Lieutenant to come and write audio records. That's the only reason. But from law enforcement... You, the YOUNG Unity, but you always speak about the need to protect personal data and so on. This is totally contrary to the protection of personal data. Let's take a second situation, let's say, in the court of a person, and the record in this room shows on television what kind of person is bad, terrible and so on, and then that person is justified in a year's time, two, three, four. But at that moment this person is painted as a monster. ( Internouncing call.) And it is also simply objectively wrong. I think that the only one who can decide on this is a judge. Clear and bright - the judge is in the courtroom. The judge is the one who determines the procedure in the courtroom and the procedure in the courtroom applies to all the participants in the particular proceedings as well as to other persons in the courtroom. It is exactly the same as that of the Saeima Sittings Hall, the owner is Ināra Mūrniece; now she sets the order. In the courtroom, the judge determines everything, not Leitans or someone else, and will say that there will be my order now, and you will sit there. That must not be the case! This is illiteracy and human rights abuse. This is, in principle, a restriction on the power of judges. It must be solely by means of a judicial decision authorising or prohibiting third parties from recording the proceedings in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U454	Dear colleagues, Members Pavļuts, Latkovskis, Zakaistovs, Strīķe and Dzintars are asking to announce a break at the Saeima sitting after the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” by 9 a.m. on 20 February this year. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. So let's keep working. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U455	As far as I can see, Mr Gobzem was not able to attend the sitting of the Legal Commission, and so he does not fully understand the substance of the proposal. I will try to explain, and I hope that this will help you to understand better and you will no longer talk things that, well, a little surprised. Firstly, on the substance of the proposal. We received a proposal to amend the Criminal Procedure Law from the Latvian Journalists Association. And the reason, the logic is as follows: if an open hearing is held, every person can visit it. Journalists also do this. But it is important for journalists to obtain accurate information to inform the public. And if a journalist sits with a pen, with a pencil and tries to write down what's going on here, he can confuse something, and then society can be misled, and that's very bad. Criminal proceedings are taking place, but the media are told with inaccurate information. It is therefore important that, in criminal proceedings, as in civil proceedings, it is possible to make an audio record, which will then be used to inform the public correctly. That's one. For your example of children. You're... You've been a lawyer ever, you can't have forgotten everything since. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Adult people can also be children!” ) And the question if there is a child... if there is criminal proceedings, the hearing is closed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Adult people can also be children!” ) And if there is a closed sitting, it means there will be no journalists at all - with either dictphones or video cameras. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There will be no journalists. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “The Zolitūdes case is an example!” ) On order. So it's a judge's right. The article consists of two parts. One part is about audio recording. And the order is what? Not like now - you can take a mobile, quietly turn on and record and then use something. We provide for a different procedure - anyone who wants to record, make an audio record, informs the court: I will make an audio record. If there is a wish to make a video recording, to film, to photograph, then the court takes a decision - to allow or not. There's a different order. The relevant provision. Before the third reading, we plan to continue the discussion on how this information can be used. There is also a plan and intention to involve experts who will look at the norm directly from the human privacy... positions of protection of private interests. So the work is going on, but the idea as such, in my opinion, is welcome. If we want accurate information, it is important to have the opportunity to obtain accurate information. And that can be done by making an audio record. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U456	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U457	Yes, honourable colleagues. So far, the proposal, which will probably not change much, even after the third reading in particular, has in fact had the same order. There was one article... whole, and now it is divided into two parts. And this article stipulated that video and audio recording may be carried out if permitted by the court and if no objection is raised by other participants of the court, including the victim, the witness, the accused and the representative. It meant that the victim... the victim's right not to be filmed and recorded... We are not talking about children, we are not talking about details of private life. But there are situations, there are criminal proceedings in which such or other details of the case may be private, for example, by describing the property of the victim or some progress. And the victim has the right to privacy in any case. The victim was therefore able to object to such a procedure, and that was understandable. What the Association of Journalists wants at the moment, and which Mr. Judine has been very actively lobbying, perhaps hoping for a positive story in De Facto, is that, first of all, the audio recording can be done in any case only by declaring the court, without any harmonisation. What you said, Mr. Judin, used to secretly record it on the phone and then used it somewhere... This is also possible now. After these amendments, it does not change anything, because there is no need for a person to register - name, surname and in some register it is entered. No, that's the same way. I'll record it, and that's it. Someone's gonna tell you what they won't say. It doesn't change anything. If we are talking about filming and taking pictures, then in this case this proposal, the second part, provides that filming can be carried out with the permission of the court. So now that filter is much, much wider. Next, the truth... only the court determines whether or not a film may be filmed and the victim’s opinion is not entirely decisive in this case, as this proposal only obliges the court to hear the opinion. What's it gonna be? The Court will hear the victim’s opinion. The victim could object, but the court is not obliged to take their views into account and prohibit filming if, for example, the victim is in strong protest. All this will be in court decisions. We trust, of course, that the court will make the right decision, but in any case, what the norm now looks like is not good. I would also like to inform you that, in the course of the examination of this draft law, the Commission on Criminal Law Policy has expressed, in my opinion, also a fairly well-founded concern about broadcasting, as technologies currently allow various types of broadcasting both on social networks and in other ways. If we are talking about the examination of witnesses behind closed doors, these broadcasts, which could now be authorised, can seriously interfere with the course of the proceedings. In my opinion, this is such an excessive interference in the proceedings. I understand that journalists need information and that there are interesting things in which journalists want to participate, but this should not be the case. That is a balance, in my opinion, which has now been lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U458	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U459	Mr. Judin, I would, however, ask you not to talk silly. I will name the biggest criminal case in Latvia's history - the Zolitūde case. Open process, victims - minor children in this process, and journalists write in newspapers. From the point of view of security of the process - what is it? The witness must not enter the hall, he must not hear the testimony. At that time, the journalist has already printed everything that the previous witness has pointed out. The Witness reads Delfus and looks. He must not go to the hall, but “Delfo” has already seen all the evidence. In fact, this is another thing. The third thing. If the victim says he doesn't want to... And Zolitude's example is a very good one again. A number of the victims said: “We don’t want our words or anything else from us — neither voices nor images... We do not want anything to be shown about us!” Journalists have another task - they need clicks. If there's a process, they need clicks. We forget about the protection of victims. If we look at how it is in the citadel of democracy... Look at a criminal, for example, in the United States! Can a journalist record what is happening in criminal proceedings there? You can't film or take pictures, you can only make a drawing, as we can see... Because it is essential to protect the interests of the victim. He wants to... You can want to... and shall have the right to the inviolability of his private life in any circumstances. From a procedural safety point of view, any information about any evidence which has entered the public space is of benefit only to the person accused of the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U460	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U461	Yeah, really. If a person does not read the proposals and does not attend the sittings of the Legal Commission, then... We have a lot of stupidity here... Members of the Legal Commission should listen. Firstly, this article has not been amended for a very long time and applies only to public hearings. Inaugurated Court sittings (Dep. A. Gobzems: “The Zolitūde is an open trial!” Any person may participate. May participate (Dep. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) ... anyone can take part! There are journalists there, they hear everything happening there. As soon as any issue relating to children is sensitive, its meetings shall be closed and no one shall be present. And then I will explain the process so that all Members understand why there are no minimum risks here. When the criminal case is closed, it is copied, digitised on disks, on paper, distributed to both sides. In particular, all evidence is provided to lawyers, accused persons, victims and, of course, the prosecutor. When court hearings take place, they are recorded and records are available to both lawyers and accused... 10 lawyers, if any, and 10 accused persons who can receive and use them. And then we have a journalist who, because the article has not been amended, I don't know how... You know what stenography is? Then they are the only ones who sit and try to make a stenograph. Journalists have probably long remembered what it is and are trying to use it. Well, it's actually a laughter (interdependence.) ... is actually a joke for them. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Watch!” ) Mrs Stepanenko said that live broadcasting... and that it may interfere with the questioning. We will talk about these aspects. But even if we do not allow journalists to make an audio record - there is such a great rubric of Delfos, so called Delphi's live broadcast. They may sit and write live. So here we are just coming in the century in which we are... also in the norms of criminal proceedings... Thank you for your attention. And I call, of course, for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U462	The name to the Member, Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U463	Thank you, Mr. Gobzem. You pointed out the problems that we want to debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “You acknowledge that she is not perfect, its norm!” ) And in second reading... we were just before the second reading, looking at this proposal... we understand that there is a basis for such a proposal, and that is welcome. But we are also debating the situation at the sub-commission's sitting - what if, for example, someone starts broadcasting... e.g. The question of when to use audio recording... those issues are topical. And the question of the victim, too. Let us not talk about minors, but there are different situations at all, and the victims must be protected, that is clear and understandable. But we are going to discuss this proposal. The draft law contains examples... there are proposals which may not change at all at third reading as well. A debate is planned on this proposal. We invite experts to give their views. Work will continue. I just understood... Well, it just happened that you weren't at the sitting of the Legal Commission... And also Mrs Stepanenko... Or didn't take part... Thus (Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “I had a vacation. I was in America!” )... Yeah, maybe... No, it's not like a reproach... just you with that less information. You are now feeling it very painful, but we are working on the issue of solving the problem. And we will.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U464	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U465	Thank you to Mr Judine for mentioning that the discussion will continue. I will also encourage you to continue this discussion because, following on from what Mr Gobzem said, specifically on the Zolitūde trial... There were very long court hearings when the court heard the victims. Even when minors were not speaking, adults who cried, who talked about the most painful moments of their lives spoke. I think if they knew that journalists were sitting in the Chamber and doing audio recordings... It is also important that there is no reservation in this provision that these records, audio recordings and journalists may not then be used in an authentic way. What is television doing? They take an audio record, they add a human photograph or a picture, and it already turns into a full visualisation. You have to think about it! It is really good that you mentioned re-use. This is a very important moment, and it must definitely be said here... What do you mean by informing the court? How? Before the hearing? Does the court have to ask for a specific permit... consent of the participants to the entire sitting, the specific sittings? Because I know the Zolitūde court... I've got victims who refuse to give up in any way... You can't take pictures of them, you can't record them, you can't record them. Absolutely! And this is the speech... Of course, I am a journalist by profession, I understand everything, but this is about human rights... in particular.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U466	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U467	Dear colleagues, Both the Head of the Sub-Commission on Criminal Law Policy and the Head of the Legal Commission... In my opinion, higher standards are required, however, from the behaviour of the committee and the sub-committee leaders, and I think you should not bow down to the fact that “you don’t understand there”, “you don’t know how to read”, “you have not been in the committee sitting”... It's not worthy of a sub-commission manager... it is not worthy of behavior. If you think someone has not understood what you have decided on in the sub-committee, it is your duty to come and explain and not to indicate and bake with your finger. And, Mr Judin, unlike you who may often go on state-paid political tourism trips, I could not attend the Legal Commission meeting because I had asked for my money on vacation to represent Latvia at an international event that took place in the United States - at the invitation of the congressman. I have not asked for any mission because I know that I will not be granted it either, but, Mr Judine, I took part in the Sub-Commission on Criminal Law Policy, and I made a number of proposals on this issue. And one of the proposals was precisely the victim's defence, to which you said: "Yes, we will take it into account!" However, this proposal was not taken into account and the legal commission was not amended. Its wording could be amended both by the Commission for Criminal Law Policy and by the Legal Commission in drafting its own wording. Instead, we are now working on an absolutely raw, rough norm that will lead to a very large discussion and, most probably, at the third reading, you will encircle that norm in the same way as it is today, because you are very good at... You look forward to the favour of journalists, but that is not worthy of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U468	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U469	Proposal 27 - Legal commission proposal The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U470	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, against - 28, refrains - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U471	28. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It proposed to extend the period of the judge’s decision on the time and place of the trial. Following discussions within the Legal Commission, the Commission decided not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U472	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U473	29. - the proposal by Member Andreja Judine, which relates to limiting the speech of the debate in order to avoid delaying the process. This essentially provides for the right to present a debate in writing. In the light of the discussion in the subcommittee, the proposal has been partly supported and incorporated into proposal 31.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U474	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U475	30. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, which is consistent with the right for the court to determine the length of the debate. Partly supported, including in proposal 31.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U476	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U477	31. - The legal commission's proposal. It has been developed in the light of the above proposals and the solution proposed by the Prosecutor General's Office in order to avoid delays in proceedings before the court regarding court debates. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U479	32. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. This provides for the possibility for the Judge to terminate the debate in specific cases. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U480	Members are in favour. Members wanted to debate 32? ( Internouncing call.) Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U481	Dear colleagues, As I said earlier, we are once again facing a dangerous situation. With a view to shortening the duration of the proceedings, colleagues wish to turn to the limitation of the time of the debate and give the right to reduce this time, taking into account a number of subjective circumstances. So far, the reason it was possible to shorten this time was just that... Now Mrs. Mourniece can shorten... instead of shortening, he may terminate the debate if he does not talk about the matter. Now, following this proposal, there are, in fact, a number of subjective circumstances which the court will be entitled to take into account and will be obliged to use those circumstances to stop the speaker. That will be both a repetition and a mystical delay. This is a truly incomprehensible term, which, in fact, can be translated very widely. And in this case, we are once again talking about restricting rights. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U482	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U483	This is a classic example of how we are moving towards a positive direction of bureaucratic law that the law, the Law on Criminal Procedure, has, in fact, long since foreseen. And basically, here's the revolutionary belief again that in this way, we don't know, we're going to shorten Lemberg's case or something else... Well, something like that. First. If we look at statistical data, purely technical statistics, in Latvia court debates in criminal matters are the most recent procedural event. The shortest procedural event! ( Internouncing call.) The case of the Zolitude tragedy is once again an example of this. Next week, I see how I understand. How long was the debate? It was short! And here to get something out of here separately - that's perfect - complete! - That's absurd. Moreover, these rules cannot be applied retroactively in the case to which they are now supposed to be made... because the law does not have retroactive procedural force. The second point is that it is important to stress. If a party shows disrespect for the court, the party may already be punished. And he must also be punished right now. If the party does not speak of the case, the judge may terminate it at the moment and order him to speak of the case. The same is true of judges today. If the parties repeat the same case, the judge may terminate it at the present time. And he has to do it right now. If a judge allows, for example, that a lawyer who is to be tried or tried in a court debate to repeat one hundred times the same sentence... on the circle, on the circle, on the circle... It is actually the responsibility of a judge, not the abuse of a judge or lawyer. The existing Criminal Procedure Law provides for all procedural instruments in the hands of judges. The fact that judges may sometimes not use them is another question. Besides, it's in any case... What you offer does not, in any case, change the substance of the matter. You say that the proposed norm, for example, if repeated... if a party to the proceedings is reoccurred in the hearing, the Judge may terminate. But he can also continue, and the situation does not end. So he can stop in the current version and he can stop in the next version. But nothing changes from it. Therefore, the version of this provision is, in fact, a positive force of law, which will not change anything in the process. One thing. The other thing. Essentially. The second point is, in essence, that the court debate is in fact an essential right of defence for the judges. Each person has a right of defence. The way in which we now want to go is that to the courts, to those against whom charges have been brought... that they are in principle limited in such a way that they cannot defend themselves. Criminal proceedings are also, by their very nature, a race. What can be done? And it may be that such a race also wins a person whose court, if the prosecutor's office is poorly prepared, for example, if the judge has better defenders and better lawyers. That can be the case. It is a question of race. That is the whole point of law. What the UK would really like to do is that the courts are not at all, that Strike, Jurash and Bordan simply say in the troika (Applause.) Who is guilty and who is not, and - right in the right prison! That's it. It's your thinking, it's what you want to change the Criminal Procedure Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U484	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U485	32. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U486	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 47, no, 25, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U487	33. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. As in the case of restrictions on the speech of the debate, the Judge is given the opportunity to discontinue it, also in the case of a rejoinder. The Legal Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U488	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U489	Dear colleagues, Here, too, I would like to point out the situation that we have just been discussing in the previous proposal. It is wrong, in our opinion, to limit the duration of the rejoinder on the basis of subjective circumstances, which are now being added to this article completely again at second reading. These are the same conditions that we have just mentioned, which are also included in the previous proposal and in all the further ones, which are directly linked to the duration of the debate. I call on you not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U490	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U491	When the rules are changed, then there is certainly some reason why they need to be changed. This norm must also be based on some kind of reasoning, some of the arguments that show that the practice so far has been wrong, that they are hindering the trial... and so on. When preparing such a norm, there is no argument at all, no information about how much in the Republic of Latvia... how long is the longest replica that has been said in criminal proceedings. How long is it - by itself, by the longest one ever said in life? And it will be amazing - surprising! - information that its replica length is very short... the longest rehearsals that have been said... Since this provision simply does not, by its very nature, present any problems. Basically because you don't have any data and you don't have any proof that the replica would be too long... that someone would have used it. And another important detail that needs to be highlighted. The right of defence, including the right to say a replica to a person, is derived from the very meaning of criminal proceedings - from the meaning which is included in the constitution. And it makes sense - there is a presumption of innocence, that is, everyone has the right to defend themselves as high-quality as he is able to defend himself. And no one can offend... and no one can offend if, for example, he defends qualitatively. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) I am simply speaking, Mrs. Reynolds, about what is a silly legal proposal. And I want to light up that the Legal Commission is driving the proposal without any data, because there is no evidence that a replica in criminal proceedings - just one replica! - have delayed the course of the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U492	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U493	33. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U494	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U495	34. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordāns, which states that the judge is not to determine the last word of the accused, but "may determine the length of time". The Legal Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U497	Proposals 35 and 36 provide for more flexibility in the treatment of cases where it has seen shortcomings in the criminal case brought by an agreement. 35. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U498	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U499	Dear colleagues, We really have a duty to point out the problems in the legislative process... and also in the Saeima sitting... precisely because all Members of the Saeima and the verbatim verbatim report of the Saeima are present at the Saeima sitting, a verbatim report is being made and this verbatim report will then be used if there is a question concerning the application of the rules. Therefore, do not offend us, we have a duty to report that this proposal, as Mrs Strike said, is a more flexible approach. This is a dangerous precedent in this legislative process, because we state that when a court detects an infringement, it does not necessarily respond, but that when a court detects an infringement, it can respond. And there's no way what... what is the other activity in the present case. That is why we are calling for this so-called flexible approach not to be supported, but to leave it as it is at present - that the court has a duty to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U500	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U501	35. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Legal Commission has supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U502	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U503	36. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Legal Commission has supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U504	Members support (Interface: “Vote!” )... However, Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U505	37. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Provision shall be made to waive the possibility for the court of appeal to invite persons on its own initiative. The Commission concluded that this proposal should be discussed in more detail as... already within the framework of another draft law. Consequently, the Legal Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U506	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U507	Proposals 38, 39 and 40 relate to the fact that the participation of an expert psychiatrist in a hearing is not mandatory. 38. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U508	Members are in favour. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U509	39. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U510	Wait, about 38. ... Vote, huh? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 21, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U511	As I said, next... The following two proposals are closely linked to proposal 38. Consequently, 39. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U512	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U513	40. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U514	Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U515	41. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for the participation of a representative of a medical institution in a court hearing not to be mandatory. The Legal Commission is supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U516	Please call me! We will vote for 41. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U517	42. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for the appeal of compulsory medical measures to be heard by the regional court. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U519	43. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technical. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U521	44. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Associated with procedures for the imposition of medical measures. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U523	45. - The proposal from Member Slurry. Provision shall be made for the suspension of the period for payment of the fine. The Legal Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U524	Members don't mind... Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U525	Instead of Karina Scratch. That is her proposal. The nature of this is that, in principle, the existing... the current offer provides that if there is a fine, it must be paid within the relevant time limit, and if there is a breach of the time limit, then you will probably not have paid and put you in prison. Well, by nature. The country's maintenance of every prisoner is a costly joy, and the financial situation of individuals may be that they want to pay, but technically perhaps time has been insufficient. The country does not get anything from it. In particular, if the person liable for the fine submits a reasoned reasoned argument as to the time limit within which he could pay the fine, that would be, consequently, prolonged. Mrs Strude offers 100 days, which is logical, which is about three months. If, within a month... not always all of your material problems can be solved so quickly or your commitments can be settled. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported precisely for the reason that it is, by its very nature, less difficult for a country to put a person in prison than to receive a corresponding financial contribution... depending on the relationship between the person to whom it is addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U526	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U527	45. - The proposal from Member Slurry. The Legal Commission did not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U528	Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - The Commissioner's Scratch proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U529	46. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The stay of enforcement shall be provided for by the court or tribunal in writing. The Legal Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U530	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U531	47. - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns. The Legal Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U532	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U533	48. - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns. The Legal Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U535	49. - The proposal from Member Slurry. This concerns the payment of fines. The proposal is not supported by the Legal Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U536	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for 49. - The Commissioner's Scratch proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 25, 45, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U537	50. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is intended to relieve those courts which, in accordance with the territorial principle, have to deal with cases concerning the enforcement of penalties. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U539	51. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. It is envisaged that the first reading version should be withdrawn. Proposal after discussion... the discussions within the Legal Commission have been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U540	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U541	Proposals 52 and 53 provide for a decision to be given in written proceedings. 52. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U542	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U543	53. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U544	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U545	54. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It significantly clarifies the norm regarding the review of court decisions which have entered into force, providing that a refusal to initiate cassation proceedings is also necessary. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U546	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U547	Proposals 55, 56 and 57 are linked. They apply to the examination of complaints about the decision of the judge on the judgement to be enforced in Latvia. 55. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U548	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U549	56. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U550	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U551	57. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U553	Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 427/Lp13) at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U554	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 4, for - 22. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U555	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U556	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 March this year. Dear colleagues, I must inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dauges, Vucana, Bergmanis, Jalinska and other Members question to the Prime Minister “On the benefits for the inhabitants of the regions after the change of the boundaries of municipalities”. The question was referred to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask questions. Member Zariņa, Clementyeva, Rubika, Niconova and Krišanas urgent question to the Minister for Economic Affairs “On the validity of the decision of the Minister of Economics to suspend the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics”. No written reply was received. The questioners have declared that they cannot attend and hear an oral answer from the Minister, and therefore a written reply must be given to the Minister within 48 hours of the meeting of the Saeima. The written reply received by Member Zariņa, Papules, Agešina, Rubika and Lochmeles-Lunova to the Prime Minister “On Compliance of the Minister of Economics Ralfas Nemiro with the Position to be held” is satisfactory for the applicants. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U557	Not registered: Arvils Asheraden, Jānis Adamsons, Iveta Benhena–Beeken, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Jānis Dombrava (Interface: Yes!) )... Yes, Raivis Dzintars, Inga Goldberga, Inese Ikstena, Atis Lejiņš, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Karina Sprūde, Mārtiņš Staķis, Mārtiņš Šteins, Jānis Tutins, Inese Voika, Jānis Vucāns, Ivars Zariņš. Tutin's there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-13-PT13-2039-U558	Thank you. Interruption until 9 a.m. on February 20, this year. ( Interruption)
