ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U1	Honourable Members! Let us start by looking at the agenda of the remote emergency sitting on 5 November 2020. First of all, reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Military Persons” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members support the referral of the draft law to commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on accounting presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to the referral of the draft law to the commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on covered bonds presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Deposit Guarantee Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Credit Register” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) as well as to the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Financial Stability Fees” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Insolvency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Out-of-court Recovery of Debts” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Land Register Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Armands Krauze, Julia Stepanenko, Raimonds Bergmanis, Māra Kučinska, Janis Dūklava, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Vucanas, Ulda Augulis and Gundars Many be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, which has submitted draft laws on “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”. So Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 40, for - 6. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Riharda Kozlovska, Ainara Latkovska, Ata Leieniņa, Arvila Aseraden and Alda Blumberg's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers" be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have requested a vote. Please call me! I'm sorry, it's been applied for... So... Mr. Feldman. It was late. So let us vote in favour of transferring the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! No, 57, no, 16, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” be referred to the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Part of the Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia, the Law of the Renewed of the Republic of Latvia, the Rights of Heritage and the Rights of Cases” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Guernsey in the Field of Social Security” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the election of Member Māra Možvillo to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Maris Možvillo to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Māra Možvillo to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of a Member of the Commission for Public Expenditure and Auditing! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Education Law presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? So, Mrs Stepanenko will talk about or against? ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak against”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U2	Colleagues! I will call on you not to pass this bill to the commission and not to rush with this... support for this draft law, because we have witnessed how the norms and offers contained in this draft law have been seen in several meetings of the panel. There are still parents and specialists who are dissatisfied with terminology, which is directly related to the definition of distance learning. In this case, when the Ministry of Education and Science has done nothing in practice throughout the summer to plan and plan for a possible solution to these Covid-19 problems in the education system as a result of the second wave, we believe that offering Members of the Saeima, without even looking at these proposals in the Cabinet, is very wrong. And it's really a shift of responsibility on the parents' shoulders, on the teachers' shoulders. It may be that it is simply some kind of ministry procurement and a new ministry... new discovery... simple, well, I am sorry, to go ahead with this bill, because we know that various measures have been taken to make this remote training perhaps more interesting in financial terms. We therefore believe that this draft law is by no means urgent or now transferable in the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U3	“About” has applied to speak Member Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, It should be noted that there are many uncertainties and misstatements in what Jūlia Stepanenko said. First... First of all, these amendments have been debated with experts, so... Thus, both school directors and other education experts have been on the table for some time, including in the summer. And these amendments are presented to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science in September. In principle, these amendments have therefore been discussed by the Commission and have been discussed several times over two months. Unfortunately, the commission has not been able to accept them, let's say, given that there was also there in the specific opening of the Education Law... There were others as well... Many proposals have been made. Consequently, the Commission decided to divide these individual amendments which had already been debated and to move forward as a matter of urgency in order not to interfere with the progress of these amendments, as they are particularly important at the moment, under the Covid-19 conditions, so that schools can function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U5	Thank you, colleagues. We will vote in favour of the commission responsible for the draft law. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible. Please, let's vote! For -62, for -19, for -5. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U6	Colleagues, one more time I'll guess... Since the Commission has also asked to consider this draft law at first reading in the Saeima without re-visiting it, I will once more tell you what the draft law is about. These specific amendments concern the possibility... Consequently, the definition of the distance learning process, which is defined as the form of field education, which is not provided for by the current wording of the law. The resources required for the learning process are also specified. It is important to point out and remind here that there is no additional obligation on parents to buy these funds, but only for founders and the Ministry to provide them in principle. Amendments are also being made to allow schools to conclude agreements with each other in order to ensure teacher load. For example, if there is no chemical teacher in one school, let us say, in another school, this teacher is working part-time, then this teacher would also have the opportunity to work the rest of the time - to deliver the training in this school, where the teacher is lacking. These amendments are essential, let us say, under normal conditions, because we are also seeing after the world, for example, Estonia and Finland, where the distance learning process was part of the normal learning process well before the Covid-19 crisis, more than a year before the Covid-19 crisis, and let us also say... Especially in these circumstances, when there is a Covid-19 crisis, and allowing schools to... Let us say that by allowing them to do different things more freely, such as to conclude agreements between themselves, as well as to carry out the distance learning process both in person and at a distance. So I call for support and the Commission also asks for urgency for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U7	Does one of the Members want to talk about urgency? No, no. Members don't want to. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 60, for - 23, for - 3. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U8	Thank you. The only reason I keep my speech is to ask the Saeima to determine... When we're already in an emergency... However, to set the deadline for submitting proposals as long as possible so that Members can prepare themselves for this draft law (a very important one in fact - which changes the teaching technology in our schools, it is a very high-quality one) and submit their proposals. This will probably be a separate story when we talk about setting a deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U9	Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U10	Hello, colleagues! At the initiative of the Ministry of Education and Science this time, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science is leading other amendments to the Law on Education. This time they affect the current situation on a very topical subject, that is, remote learning. The initiators of amendments offer to recognise remote learning as part of the process of on-site education, i.e. by law, to establish that distance learning is the same as in-situ... From the first view, what's special? But our children learned at a distance all spring. It was not easy, but it was learning. Education institutions were able to make changes in their work in the short term. The teachers successfully learned and implemented new forms of learning. Students learned to learn teaching material more independently. Parents also took part in the process. But, colleagues, there is only one here. This was the case when an emergency situation was announced in the country, but the proposed changes to the law state that both forms of training are also equal in the normal situation. And that is a cause for concern. My deepest conviction is that a distance learning process should not become a norm beyond the time of an emergency. Every student must have the right to study in the form of an on-the-spot study programme. Undoubtedly, digital technologies offer new opportunities for organising and personalising the education process, but this will never replace a teacher's personal contact with an educator. Allowing remote learning to be aligned... we threaten the quality of education and clearly increase inequalities in education. It is already the opinion of educators that the level of pupils' knowledge has fallen significantly since the two months' far-reaching training in the spring, so that the material acquired in this period now needs to be repeated - which increases the burden on both teachers and students. Another issue that I think is very important. Allowing the so-called face-to-face remote learning process must provide guarantees that all those involved will be provided with an appropriate logistical basis. In the case of distance learning, a personal computer, as well as the purchase of electronic resources - interactive learning platforms and training and communication software - is an essential part of the education infrastructure, which must be financed from the state budget, rather than imposing new responsibilities on municipalities. And until this is ensured, colleagues, we cannot support the proposed amendments to the Education Act. Remote learning is also an additional burden for parents. There is no denying that parents should be involved in the learning process, but they cannot replace teachers by continuous interpretation of the material they learn. As the incidence of Covid-19 increased, I heard from no single parent that every effort should be made so that schools should not return to remote learning, because... recalled their spring experience. And another argument why I call on you, colleagues, to vote against the offer... the proposed amendments. I would like to see distance learning used only as an additional option, and not as a way of easing holes in the situation of lack of teachers. We need to have a real action plan to make it possible for educational institutions to provide the necessary number of educators so that young people do not hesitate to go to school. Remote learning will not solve the growing problem of this year. Remote learning is only permitted in an emergency! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U11	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U12	Dear colleagues, In reply to Mr Pimenova, I can only say that, yes, the deadline for the submission of proposals is definitely sufficient - it will be several days, so that there will be an opportunity to submit their proposals. I also point out once again that there has indeed been a long debate on the Commission in several sittings... in the course of the meetings of the panel on these amendments. In response to Mr Kucin, however, the world's most advanced and best education systems, as I have already mentioned - Finland, Estonia - which are the world's top ranking in terms of quality and system results, have already introduced this remote learning process as part of the normal process before the Covid-19 crisis. It can be once a week, it can be one hour a week or something... or perhaps otherwise, but they have introduced it. The results that they still have are the highest, so the concern that the level would drop significantly is not quite justified. At the same time, of course, our system and schools must adapt. Clearly, it takes some time to adapt to make such changes. I think that a good trial was already in the first Covid-19 wave that came in such a forced manner. And also Mr Kucina's response: all possible actions have been taken from the Ministry of Education and Science, or, either, a great many, to support teachers in this process, to support schools in this process and the municipalities. By the end of the year 5300 smart devices and 6200 portable computers will be delivered to schools. There is also an average mile connection in many schools that... In addition, six million of the Covid-19 funding have been diverted. Universities have also been supported in implementing the distance learning process and the potential needs of technologies and various other support mechanisms. It should also be noted that, in the previous period of European funds, it was precisely for the purchase of these digital goods and, for example, for the provision of schools with a variety of computers and other necessary things... in several dozens of millions. We have also discussed this with the Latvian Municipal Union, and they agree that this is the case. Of course, we cannot expect this situation to be perfect everywhere, but we have to go with time, we have to understand how the education system is changing, and we have to adapt accordingly. So, colleagues, I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U13	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U14	Colleagues! Colleagues! Undoubtedly, the education system is changing and we have to go with it, but this practice with remote... The introduction of distance learning in the spring was highlighted by many problems, which were also highlighted by relevant experts... 63 experts indicated in their open letter to the members of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Some of the objections relate directly not only to the social skills of pupils... At the same time, training work on student development, but also the development of the skills of the younger classes, is... Of course - it is necessary to develop this digital skills in our age, but we must not forget that children in primary education are developing their thinking, including by working on handwriting, on various... at various work typefaces and also writings that are very necessary for just a smaller child. And it is also very necessary to have direct contact with the teacher. In this case - well, in remote learning - it is clear that... very many parents have pointed out that children, especially younger schoolchildren, in the spring of the year caused great harm in that it was very difficult for both parents and children to learn material. Of course, thank you very much to the teachers, who prepared very well and drew this crisis out on their shoulders, but it is clear that to ensure that this distance learning is implemented in the way that the Ministry of Education and Science now wants to have even more discussions. What... What in principle... What should be done in this case is this norm on distance learning and also on who reimburses all expenses related to distance learning for both parents and teachers. These rules should be included in the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, because we are now looking at this regulation as a temporary regulation. We need to focus on how we can now introduce this temporary framework in a way that is appropriate. After we are going through this crisis, we can talk in the longer and better-quality discussions about the way in which these remote learnings should be introduced as part of the present. Although, of course, it is a little funnyly confused - the present is remote and remote is the present. Here too, of course, terminology could perhaps be discussed, but in fact, the problem is that we must not put this temporary solution here, which is a temporary solution at the moment... We cannot reform at the expense of the Covid-19. It's a temporary solution, we can't statutory it as such... an absolute rule that will work forever. The Covid-19 law on the spread of infection has a wide range of different options to provide for this regulation and to work with it accordingly... and in this way. I am also a little surprised that the Ministry of Education and Science has not in any way responded to the fact that in the education system very many teachers of interest education who currently suffer very great losses due to regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers... And practically very many circles are actually already on the closure line. That's not why it's not thought at all. If we are talking about the work to be done, then in my opinion, the most urgent work to be done is precisely to ensure that we are not weakened by the education system, because education of interests is part of the education process. If children stay away from different groups and additional classes after this crisis, which undoubtedly enriches their internal world and skills, then in this case... then who will take responsibility if we no longer take responsibility for our actions. I will therefore call on you not to support it, as I also called for it not to be passed on to the Commission, not to be supported at first reading, because this solution should be imposed by the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection rather than by the Education law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U15	Mr Gobzem, are you going to have a debate with 10 minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Mr. Mūrniece, I will be enough if you don’t stop me.” ) Name of Member Aldim Gobzem. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U16	So, hello, colleagues! Hello, community! As far as education is concerned, it is absolutely clear that throughout the summer, Mrs Tukšuma, or Mrs Šuplinska, has done nothing in the field of education, and then on the autumn... prior to the last day of the school year, any new rules of the game are announced. And now something is being taken and ripped for Christmas. The public does not know what to do, teachers do not know what to do, children’s parents do not know and so on. And the problem is, because our Minister for Education, or Mrs Emptyness, has no vision of what needs to be done in education. I may give you a couple of details that should be done in education: not to adopt such laws, but - which, by nature, would... which should be initiated. First. There should be a clear vision of how to combine the on-site learning process with distance learning, because it is actually the future of education, it is not talked about. Some technical amendments to the law are simply adopted at the moment. In my opinion, the existence of such a vision would make it possible to relieve the teachers, but in no case should it be viewed in isolation from the common concept of education, and a balanced system must be created. What do I mean? I will give you examples. For example, languages... language training. You can teach at a distance. At least in part, in combination with face-to-face training. So the languages can teach the Zoom, and some part - here too. In turn, physical objects - mathematics, physics, chemistry - cannot be taught remotely. Cannot teach Zoom under any conditions! And it must be clearly defined already in the starting position. Let us not simply introduce a technical, remote process. Second. In class schools there shall be no more than 20 children. Small classes. All this time, if we look also from the Covid-19 point of view that has been, is... So the large Covid-19 prevalence in schools. Why? Because the kids get screwed up in one class. Many children in one class all day. And so on. It was not planned at all to create small classes, where the learning process can actually also be more successful. The third, which is essential. Children in primary education must actually have the right to get to school on their feet. What does that mean? This means that it's not normal for a six-year-old to get up six in the morning to go to school for 40 minutes... or longer even for example. This means many small schools, the primary school system. What's going on with us? We have huge monsters built. It's the whole education system. The big monsters can take place in otkati - as we know, in construction projects... But in fact, if it is compared with Finland or something else, the emphasis must be on many small schools, especially in primary school. Another important part that should be discussed at the moment, for example, sport and music should be like profile objects, the presentation of which can, by nature, be transferred to the private sector: sports teachers so... physics coaches and sports studios. You can pass on the music... This should not be a mandatory subject. So, in school, control... It can be controlled through an e-class - through an e-class! Vocational education. If we are talking about vocational education and training, regional centres of competence must be created by grade 9, thus developing this area. Gymnasiums. Of course, there can and should probably be a big one, and that would be the direction in which we should look at it from the beginning. Here too, there is a great emphasis on higher education. In higher education, of course, we need to think about how to combine it with a professional, for example, at a sports Academy or a music Academy, or at an art Academy and in such a spirit. What do I mean by all this? First. Not technical corrections that we will now have to learn at a distance, but first of all start with a vision. This is a task of the Minister! The task of Mrs Emptyness is to come with a vision of what the system will be, not with technical amendments, of which nothing is changing. Secondly. When there is a vision, there are certain rules of the game. Rules of the game, how we train the younger children, how we train, say, in primary school and how we train in high school or higher school. One more thing. We should be urgently - it's time! - three foreign languages are mandatory for all children of Class 1. Two at least. At least, let two or three languages be taught at school. Mandatory from Class 1! Not a choice, or something else and the like. It should start with education. It's a time-consuming job. But what happened in the summer? He was sitting in the summer, everybody was champions. Mrs. Emptyness spoke to the whole party on the television... to their fellow manormen... and everything that has the masks to walk. Then he went to this “Gora” or where he went, and he chipped with sweats at those metalists' concerts - which is a completely irresponsible act on the part of the Minister. It was... he was supposed to be energizing. I am sorry, energy should not be taken at the moment, but spent in order to sort out an education system that has not been done, and very many parents have a claim against what is happening. Similarly, teachers who had long been unaware of whether they would be able to obtain a sick leaf or a sick leaf from the first day. Even such technical details have not been resolved. In principle, education and health - these are two areas where we played the champions all summer this year and came to the swarm in the autumn. I call on the New Conservative Party, which has not done anything, has put everything on the bubble, I think, where they are attached, to listen to this speech, to repeat it 10 times and to start with the things I have listed. Then at least we'll move forward. Thank you. May all of you have a nice day!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U17	Time to break. So we will continue the debate after the break. Participants of the meeting are currently taking place... Registration of Members. Members' registration has been successfully completed. So the break is till 13:30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U18	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U19	Hello, colleagues! This bill is another cat in a bag that is offered to Members of the Saeima. Let me explain why I think so. First. It is absolutely unclear how the specific functions of our education will be implemented by adopting these amendments, because without the provision of knowledge with a certain methodology there is an educational function such as education. It is absolutely unclear how, for example, educators, and especially social educators, will work with children with a ninth behavior, how they will work and determine their potential customers in the logos and so on. Another important aspect that is absolutely unacceptable is to approve a remote training process as a norm for special school pupils. The parents of such children have asked me not to allow for distance training for these children because it places a disproportionate burden on both parents who will be forced to leave any work in order to provide such children with the environment so that they can even do something at a distance. Secondly. The next aspect relates to the fact that there have been continuous experiments in our education for several years. As is well known, this autumn schools moved to the implementation of competence education. I'm the mother of the 7th grade student and I'm watching it every day, and I could say the following... that, of course, children are very happy that they have such objects as theatre art, technology and design, but remotely present them with a good methodology... and good quality results... It's just impossible. For example, yesterday's example. And now I'm going to talk about sport. Yesterday's sporting task was to drive a wheel for two and a half kilometres, and... without any explanation of what routes: whether it's just a bike or it's... It's a highway. What should children do in terms of safety? Not to mention that... whether the child has the wheel with which he can carry out this role as a sports educator. Thirdly. Software. Besides having smart devices, computers, you have to be certain... licensed programmes, which are now also shared by schools, but also from practice - very, very many problems. You yourself, as Members, face constant problems in everyday life, which are directly related to the application of the software. Please tell me how children’s parents or children themselves can cope with these problems on a daily basis. Fourth. If we are talking about what Mr. Znotiņš said. In my opinion, it is absolutely wrong on the part of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science to mention to us the example of Finland or Estonia, because if we are talking about Finland, then we have to look first at the country's experience of the past 10 years of on-the-spot education. So, when they have 30 children in class, how are we, but much less - how is the material presentation process itself? What is the methodology? At least mention that there is no need for a child or a parent to buy anything at all - even a pen should not be bought because all this is provided to the student and the family in the country itself, free of charge. It is precisely because our Ministry of Education and Science evaluates previous work experience both by society and children's parents with a minus sign - precisely because of their constant experiments, the absolute uncertainty of tomorrow - that there should not be an ordinary law that can really be compared only to a cat in a bag. I don't even know what color this cat is... because nothing is clear and nothing is known. Neither content nor methodology nor restrictions are clear - nothing. In a country where the learning process for children with special needs has not been ensured even so far with normal textbooks and teachers, it is simply unacceptable to adopt a norm on which we want to vote today. I'm going to be in a sort of 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U20	Name of Member Evia Papulei. ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mrs. Papule! Don't talk. It's a little technical to put it, we can't hear you. ( Pause) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U21	Thank you for that. Madam President, colleagues. I would like to explain a little in terms of conceptual things, why I, too, now, although perhaps remote learning as a support for forms, am calling to a certain extent for a vote against. First. The conceptual case is that solutions are currently being sought - correct, quick solutions to the Covid-19 situation, also possible future decisions on a possible emergency situation. And maybe also for deciding what to do for Class 1-6 children: either to learn in person or at a distance. It is therefore clear that these rapid solutions would be a matter of a specific Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection. Then there might be fewer discussions, easier to tell parents, easier to explain to educators, easier to deal with financial issues if additional funding is needed. And it will obviously be early or late in education as well. Why am I saying that? Because in fact the Education, Culture and Science Commission is already addressing several new terms, including on distance learning. And it would be a natural, reasonable further discussion, how to put this really modern case into regular law or the Education Law. It would be debated, it would be generally addressed in terms of resources, not only in terms of finance, but also in terms of digital materials and accessibility. It's clear that the current situation in schools... It is said that digital materials are not currently available for all groups of classes. Actually, in those classes where now... The new standard, the competence-based, has been introduced from September, when it comes to Classes 1, 4, 7 and 10... Now, as far as I know, the available materials are only until December, so there is no next half year. All this shows that the situation is not prepared to become a regular, accepted practice. Test and also implement possible long-term practices. That's why it's the first conceptual 'no' that this would be a Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, or an emergency situation, or one of the extreme conditions that we currently have, changes that can easily be explained, perhaps easier to manage. And for people they would be acceptable and understandable in the timetable. I understand that the timing is difficult to predict at the moment, however, gradually going and gaining experience from Latvia could also be probably acceptable for teachers, parents and students as well. That is why it is the first 'no' that remote learning as a term should appear in the Covid-19 law as an exceptional solution to the spread of infection, but further discussions in the Commission would already be debated, as would be the case for a modern system.... The 21st century system... in the education system, as it is included in the on-the-spot training, because, once again, I would support this form, but it must, of course, be a resource. The second reason why these amendments... The amendments submitted include and why it should also be discussed outside the Education Law as a regular norm (but perhaps it could be as a norm of Covid–19 law on the management of the spread of infection), it is about the means of teaching or about the conditions that individual and educational means should be provided to municipalities or founders of educational institutions. During the Commission of the Latvian Municipal Union... Mr. Znotiņš referred to the negotiations with the Latvian Municipal Union. That's good. But during the commission, the Latvian Municipal Union indicated that in fact they would not support them if the law were imposed on them as a mandatory standard for buying modern technologies or... we are talking about smart devices. This as an obligation without additional funding - it is clear that municipalities are not really feasible at the moment, and also next year, looking at the corresponding cuts in municipal funding, this could be put at risk. I know that the parliamentary secretary mentioned the possibilities of the Ministry of Education and Science, but let us not forget that additional funds were allocated to the Ministry from various pockets, available legal pockets, but they were also allocated to the purchase of additional modern technology, or smart devices. It has not been heard that the Ministry is currently talking about such support for municipalities. If it were to come to the parliamentary secretary today saying that there is a plan... And I think it is easier and faster to solve this by the Covid-19 law on the spread of infection. However, if there is a plan that municipalities could receive additional financial resources for the purchase of these smart devices, then, on the one hand, such an initiative could also be supported. But now, as we know, we do not have such a response, and then the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection would probably make it possible to resolve it. Once again, if the Ministry of Education and Science has such data, please say! The Ministry of Education and Science has not stated how much it would pay municipalities. Even though Mr. Reira has confirmed... or the Ministry of Finance has confirmed that if the Ministry of Education and Science implements this amendment in the amount of the existing budget, then there is in any case nothing about the financial capacity of municipalities and their impact on municipalities. Let us remember that every moment the Ministry finds its resources not always acceptable (and not always still to be cultivated) - at the expense of children's holidays... But that will be the responsibility of the minister in the further wave of conscience that will ever come in. The third reason why I would say that conceptually this one too could be supported, on the one hand, if it were in the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection or in the event of an emergency... So in the short term, or a fixed-term rule, as a situation that must be dealt with in the extreme... and resolve quickly. And, on the one hand, it is good that it is now being proposed - there are agreements to be concluded with each other. Yes, of course, it can also be regarded as having some effect on the Labour Law. The Labour Law allows many things to be done, and every moment when we encourage changes about the establishment of holidays in the Education Law, the Ministry of Education and Science and their representatives indicate that there is something dictated by the Labour Law. Also the conclusion of these contracts, the conclusion of extreme contracts... Directors will also have to enter into a contract of employment with relatively free teachers. It can do the same at the moment, in my view, but well, in an exceptional situation, this right has clearly been granted. It is possible that directors would also benefit from not having to call the controlling authorities and ask whether or not they can do so, including the State Labour Inspectorate. If it were included in the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, then it would actually be understandable, it would be welcome, because it would be clear that the Ministry of Education and Science is trying to address acute issues and wants to do so quickly. But in this case, these norms, which probably colleagues already understand, remain as an independent standard in the Education Law and have not even been a discussion that they could be in some transitional provisions. Consequently, this term does not constitute a reason. In the absence of this term, it must be acknowledged that once again there has been no reasonable discussion. I am not saying that they must be long and long, but they must be reasonable - with figures, with reasoned proposals, so that we also understand that the Saeima is adopting norms... And after the rulings of the Constitutional Court it is now quite clear that the Saeima accepts norms that are not... which do not have an impact, have a long-term impact on the additives, not only on the one-year budget, not only on the existing annual budget, but also do not have a long-term impact. Or, on the contrary, there is this impact, but it also has sources and resources. So in brief, again. In essence, these amendments to the law could even be ideal to support: firstly, if they were in the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, that is to say, terminology and with a clear purpose; and secondly, if they were debated, not put forward at the last moment and forcefully sliding in various ways without arguments, trying to prove the opposite of what colleagues are now saying or saying... the sector, including the sector. And in this case, if we return to the distance learning, you can't put the distance learning into the main... the main parents, the drop in the quality of education, faulting teachers when the fish are in reality blowing out of the head at this point. I would call for support to be reasonable and, however, for options to be assessed if necessary... and there will be amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection or a similar emergency law. I'm calling for an evaluation. Maybe you can put it there... And then there will also come the question of understanding, the argumentation and also the question of resources, which is not irrelevant at the moment. At least in future decisions, I call on the heads of the Ministry of Education and Science not to blow up, but to think a little more about the influence and also about their name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U22	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U23	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Our Parliament has long concluded an agreement with civil society on cooperation with associations, organisations, in fact with our Latvian fellow citizens. But today, when activists of sports associations, athletes, supporters of a healthy lifestyle gather at the Saeima, unfortunately, the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science does not come to them or tell them about the position of IZM in the field of sport during the pandemic. Let us not deceive ourselves. We've been living with the coronavirus for a very long time. Today, 367 cases of infected people have been recorded in Latvia, three people died unfortunately. And the government's decision to implement the current emergency is waiting for us on Friday. There will be so-called lockdown, and will close both the canteens, as well as sports clubs, pools and so on. Young people, students, have access to the most common thing - sports classes in primary school and secondary school - but what happens to physical culture, with sport in the stage of 7th grade? In fact, as my colleague Lochmele said, in remote learning, the teacher tells students by smart method what they should do. There is, of course, no control. It's actually a show. I am very sorry for both teachers and students who are forced to actually degrade physical activity. But the law... Even those countries where there is now quarantine, for example, Lithuania, allow a maximum of 10 people to practice training in free air. In one high school class there are about 20-25 people, let's assume that... Quite a large part of them are exempted from sports activities and... Let's have no more than 20 people. They can be divided into two groups very easily, and twice a week can be regularly engaged in normal sports activities in fresh air. It will be an example of both physical culture and socialisation, because students... They want to... at home, they're smashed by their classmates, by school. And it seems that these classes are very much needed in our time, when the pandemic comes, people need to increase their immunity and support all kinds of sports activities. Unfortunately, the proposed draft law, on which we are now discussing, does not contain specific guidelines for sport, physical culture. For us now, the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science is proposing to support it in a forced manner without a re-examination by the Commission. Well, I don't support it. I will not support this draft law, I propose voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U24	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U25	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Some things I wanted to mention about this draft law, however. The draft law has created some tension both in the educators themselves and in the municipalities, and this is precisely why the budget is available. In any case, these rules will require some kind of expenditure. The letter, which is a letter from the Minister of Finance at the moment, makes it clear that expenditure will be and, on the other hand, says that the Ministry of Education and Science will resolve it in its resources. We have all seen how, in this budget, the Ministry of Education and Science, too, deals with such important issues. For example, the same support for sport: how will it be financed? It is a big question, whether such a holiday will not again be the same or something else. Therefore, the question arises: what is the point of voting, in general, among the Members of the Saeima in favour of the ministries' budgets, which are detailed, when this money can then be put inside, as it is going into mind? In my opinion, this is not the right approach as such. But in this case, in the case of municipalities... We are expected to remove around EUR 90 million from the next year's budget for municipalities as a whole. Seventy municipalities have a budget drop of more than four per cent. At the same time - the far away from the center of Riga, the situation is getting worse. In particular, the municipalities of Latgale should be highlighted here, where there will be major problems with the basic budget. At the same time, this issue is directly... And why are teachers too... And the trade union of Latvian education and science workers... looks at this bill with concern, because, of course, we remember - in spring, when there was this emergency, the country provided different smart devices for its own part, while the fact was overlooked... what the municipalities did. The reality is that a whole range of people do not have the internet at all at home and also have to provide different huts, different technical solutions outside of these devices. For all territories, for the education system as a whole, the challenge is to introduce the new content of learning, which will require very large financial resources. And also in the next programming period - not only what has already been invested, but will continue to be invested... unambiguously. And there must be a clear vision of where all this will be financed, how it will be... how it will be implemented. At present, this draft law, even in theory, does not provide any insight into the sources of funding, but on the contrary, practitioners clearly see that its costs will be high and may create tensions, for example, in ensuring the salaries of pre-school educators, because on the basis of the law, if they impose a new function and local authorities find money in their budgets, so it is the basic budget. Well, the base budget... I think that in every municipality this year it will be necessary to increase the salary of pre-school teachers, because teachers' salaries are increasing, and this should also be compensated for by pre-schools. There, this tension will only increase, and such uncertainty and such shocking are, in my opinion, too too hasty. It would have been much more correct if we came up with very clear solutions and agreed on these costs together with the local authorities. The guidelines for education are already, I think, very much has been calculated, what are then the things that are needed and what are the requests of the municipalities. It is equally clear that no funds - not with the reconstruction fund - can cover these costs. These are large and small municipalities. And administrative territorial reform will not solve this problem. So, my fellow Members, I ask you to think very carefully before you vote in favour of this draft law. I do not support this and call on other colleagues to do so, because the budget deficit in this draft law is only very worrying. Now there is more and more talk about the fact that the government will declare a state of emergency tomorrow, and I think that solutions can also be considered together with the local authorities in the state of emergency. This draft law, as a rule of the basic law, is very hasty and, to be honest, it is completely out of place. And now I see tension just after the debate. Pre-school educators very clearly see that there is a municipal budget and see that it can lead to simply not having this salary supplement for them. Well, as well as the municipalities, there are various challenges that will be in the near future, and such an unthinkable, no calculation... A proposal that is not based on calculations would not be acceptable to the basic law. Thank you, colleagues. I call for no vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U26	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U27	Dear colleagues, I would like to add a little more to what my colleagues and I have said. First of all, I also agree with the complete argument that the new content of learning is a challenge at the moment. As an additional argument, I am also faced with a situation where several textbooks have practically not yet been printed and are offered in PDF format. In certain subjects it is necessary for the teacher to present together tasks from Soma.lv and Uzdevumi.lv, to combine these trainings together, although they are already present. This, of course, also gives rise to very serious difficulties. I would like to say on-site training that, in fact, going after, yes, for that progress, there is really a thing that has been forgotten such as this personal contact with the teacher with the student, because, for example, some Members of the Saeima may also meet in remote committee meetings, not always ask a question of interest to themselves, maybe they may be shy, maybe they may forget. Imagine what happens to your children when they receive the new material from the crowd, for example, in Class 5. Are you sure that all children will be safe enough, brave enough, and ask a question that they did not understand. You can really tell me, "Teacher, I didn't understand... “? No, that doesn't happen. Those who may have worked as teachers, who have more children, who have understood, say how children go through the learning process, can see that sometimes it is that, if a child does not understand, he simply keeps silent, and then he is silent, then he is raging somewhere, and all this goes in such a circle. And the child simply doesn't learn their substance afterwards and, let's say, it's getting worse about the learning process. But with regard to parental rights, I also wanted to point out... It was... The Society of Parents had conducted a survey (now almost as a sociological survey, since 1130 parents participated in it), and there were two groups: children from 1 to 7 and from 8 to 14 years of age. Thus, most children (of the 474 families) were between 8 and 14 years of age, and the parents indicated that 63 percent of all parents surveyed had no opportunity to work remotely. This survey was directly related to... After the Covid–19, so before the second wave, so after the first wave. The survey related exactly how the parents could cross this remote process. So 63 percent, which is very, I think essential, did not have the opportunity to work remotely. 78 percent were not allowed to work, and 10 percent were not allowed by the employer. The parents, of course, also pointed out in their replies that they would have benefited greatly from support, financial support... in the form of leave, which would be like some kind of support for the time that they could spend on training children. And it's really very interesting here. From now on, the Ministry is proposing amendments that will be already cut into the stone, so this remote training, but at the same time does not propose amendments to the Labour Law, which would provide that the child... the parent is entitled to public-paid leave for the training of his or her child. I think that it would only be fair if, alongside these amendments, which are to stay, as we know, there were the same amendments to stay on child training leave. And then I think there wouldn't be a lot of claims against the child... that children have difficulty understanding this substance, because then at least parents could support them in their presence. In any case, it really happens that you want to put this interim solution into law, as your colleagues have said several times, with absolutely no support for parents and educators. Thank you. I call once again for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U28	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U29	You know, when I listen to this debate, I read one remote task. A mathematical task, which represents the whole of our education system, of all these amendments. I'll be at the very beginning. The task is numbered five, a total of eight points. And the content of the task is as follows: “The movement of the order takes place on a straight line. The unemployed man, 40 meters away, sees the politicians and begins to catch him. A politician who realizes that his life is in danger tries to escape. The unemployed person's speed is five feet [5 m] per second and the politician's speed is 14 miles per hour. How long will an unemployed person reach politicians if a politician is unable to find asylum?” And the essence of this task is, in fact, not mathematical, but philosophical. How long do the unemployed of Latvia, those who will remain without work because of all this frailty, how long will all parents, who will be denied that the education system is not essentially arranged, but with some technical issues will be ripped and caught at the last moment, will catch those politicians? And what will be your refuge, dear government, dear coalition? Mr Kariņš - of course - it will be America or Brussels, there is no doubt. Mrs. Viņķele... I don't know where she'll be? Where Mrs. Suplinsk... Is that so? Maybe you'll be in “Gora” or in any Latgale corner? I also have quiet doubts - Latvia is too small and it is possible to find it. All these unemployed and dissatisfied people, all children's parents, who understand that our authority does nothing and does not understand anything about the education system, now preaching that it will now be modern - remote learning... But first of all, maybe we need to provide all children not only with computers, not only licenses, but not only with the possibility for parents to receive, say, support that parents teach children at home, and teachers to support, but clear and unambiguous action on... and, in fact, also a plan for the way in which items will be taught at a distance, which will not be taught at a distance. Because, as I said, maths teach at a distance or chemistry teach at a distance... We're gonna get the next generation just, I'm sorry, um. I understand the New Conservative Party: they are not only voted on, in my view, by the silly people, because no one else can stand the lies. And they need a new elite of such mischievousness, a new audience, but other politicians want to vote and vote smart people, educated people, and that's why I also have the task of defending the interests of our children so that our society can be educated. And it is clear, therefore, that it is not in the Education Law that we need this change, but if we do, the state of emergency, which will be declared, but which, in fact, should not be declared, because it is the last straw (the last straw!) the powerlessness that has ruled the government all summer when we were champions here and had all the best achievements for us in all areas - hospitals, education... We have achievements everywhere. November came, achievements are over, hospitals no longer have beds, Ķīpsala... Where it will be, everything in the education system is down the ground, just as it is in transit, in ports and in the way, and still doesn't know where... and off the road in principle. And... And where is the result? The result is tasks... Mathematics... There are tasks in our education system where the unemployed catch up with politicians. So far we've lived! That's our education system, like this application... not an application, but this task, which pupils at a distance are currently taught at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U30	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U31	Hello, colleagues! I listened very carefully to everything that other speakers said about this draft law. And I have to say that a lot of what I wanted to say has already been said. I will therefore try to talk only about those things that I would like to pay particular attention to. I am also among those Members who want to argue that the issues covered by this draft law should be divided into two parts. Firstly, on matters with a long-term impact. And so here we are talking about different forms of learning, including distance learning as part of the field education process. And there, in principle, this progress should, in my view, be, and it will indeed have a long-term impact, and that is an issue of the Education Act. On the other hand, a number of other issues included in this draft law are those which... I think that it would have been more convenient and correct to deal with an emergency or crisis law with specific rules, because these are issues where the relevant problems need to be addressed either more quickly or, as Mrs Papule said, they are temporary solutions. And what is it? This is, let us say, about the provision of teaching tools (which Mr Valaiņš already talked about today) that could add to the financial pressure on municipalities, because the family issues that I think we were discussing in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, we took away, but the pressure on municipalities remained, as I see it, on the ground. Secondly, yes, and for these here... this provision, especially with regard to distance learning, is there as a very big problem I see what information technology specialists call the problem of the last mile. Here, too, during the debate in the Saeima sittings, sometimes we see that one of the rapporteurs, either his computer or his computer connection, more precisely, the hangings, speaking in the jargon, and what we say remains inaudible and invisible to others. And this happens when you communicate from cities. But imagine what the situation is like in the Latvian countryside, where broadband Internet connection is either very weak or there is no place at all! But when we talk about distance learning as a component of a person's (i.e. the compulsory education process), we must still be sure that each learner... that he has been given this remote access here to what the teacher then says. And the additional question, of course, is about costs. Who's paying? Who would then pay for this high-quality internet connection anywhere where the trainer... So where the trainee is and where he needs to get this information. I have no objection to the fact that the Ministry provides for the possibility, in its proposal, that educational institutions may conclude agreements between themselves for the use of the services of teachers of another school at a distance for the education of their pupils. However, as Mrs Papule has already mentioned, I also see here problems, however, which could be linked to the need for temporary changes in labour legislation, because if we really imagine the situation that there might be a shortage of teachers simply because they are... that they are out of the work front, and that we should use such solutions more intensively, then it could also make it possible for teachers to work above the permitted hours that they are currently allowed to work. And then it should be possible to allow these extra hours worked to be paid, but this would undoubtedly be a temporary solution to the crisis. That is why, in my view, this issue of the conclusion of mutual agreements should, at least now, be included in the crisis management law, and not in this education law here as a long-term rule. And these are the main arguments why I will not support this bill today, too, in this form. I will abstain. And that's my... The motivation behind my vote is that it should, however, be divided into what is in this draft law, including part of it as a change to the Education Law, so that it is a change that has a long-term impact, and part of it, in turn, when we try to close the opening when we talk about changes to the crisis management law, put it in this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U32	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U33	Hello, dear colleagues! In fact, the fact that municipalities are being burdened with the purchase of computers is indeed a matter of concern. In fact, the issue of additional expenditure for each municipality, especially Latgale, should certainly be seen in the context of the law on the budget for the next year, because it is clear that the reduction, which is intended for municipalities, especially the municipalities of Latgale, where is 11.9 million euros less in each municipal budget in Latgale as a whole, than it was in this year, where most municipalities have a reduction of more than four percent. There are municipalities that have seven to eight percent - this really raises concerns about this need to buy computers to municipalities, to provide families and pupils with the appropriate devices. I asked you directly for information about this situation from the award district education institutions if, in the case of this law... this provision will be adopted. They then sent me a reply that the Ministry of Education and Science, by order of the government, allocated €3.9 million this year to improve technological provision in general education institutions in the context of the Covid-19 crisis. And only 17 computers will be received from this funding. It's four computers for the Berzpils School, seven for the Tilžas School and six for the Station Primary School. Well, and here's if 535 students are currently studying at general education institutions in grades 7-12, half of which do not have adequate information technology provision at home, and there is no appropriate Internet connection, then the problem becomes very topical. And the municipality... Prizes for the municipality's budget next year will have to be EUR 170 000 to solve these problems in connection with the Internet... Let's say, the purchase of computers. Well, what does that mean? This means that the draft law is probably necessary, but it is not right to put this financial burden on the municipal shoulders. In this situation, I am surprised by the harsh silence of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, including the Minister. In fact, VARAM is responsible, not only Latvian Municipal Union... VARAM is responsible for the actual performance of all duties under the laws relating to municipalities. Neither the Minister nor the officials have proposed any alternative solution to the lack of funding. And in this case, too, in connection with the draft law on "Amendments to the Education Act". I think if, for the second reading... There is a certain question, especially of the municipalities of Latgale, which should find a financial solution. Otherwise, there is no support for such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U34	The name to Member Rainis Znotiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U35	Yes, honourable colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank a number of Members who have really tried to engage constructively in this debate, understanding and not denying the need to move forward. Modern methods must be implemented in the education system, both during Covid-19 and in general. So that's what I really appreciate. I would like to answer some, who have spoken many inaccurate things and false things. Mr. Kazinovsky. I'll start with these mentioned... These 3.9 million, and hence 6200 computers, are not the only ones that the Ministry of Education and Science has given and that it has come against municipalities and tried to help both schools and teachers. Then, as I said, several speakers referred to access to the Internet in the regions - not everywhere is good enough, not everywhere is broadband Internet. Then we have allocated six million in addition to attracting broadband. Mr Wucaan also seems to have raised the issue of the last mile. That is also on the agenda. I agree that this is still a matter to be addressed. Other speakers also mentioned support for sport and interest education... sport and education of interest... as the Covid-19 crisis response mechanism, let us either say or the consequence response mechanism. It is not a matter of this law at all, but, in reply, I will say that the Ministry of Education and Science has summarised the need for this and has submitted it to the Ministry of Finance. Today, if I am not mistaken, there was a discussion on this subject. Hopefully, it will also move forward there. I would also like to say that it is... we have been looking for and will continue to look for ways to support municipalities. Municipalities from the Ministry of Education and Science budget... 52 per cent of the total budget goes out. So it is an immediate part of the education and science budget that the Ministry of Education and Science transfers from its budget to the right municipalities to ensure the educational process, and in addition to this funding there are European funds. I mentioned in my previous address about the first... for previous European funds, where there were tens of million dedicated specifically to the purchase of digital equipment for schools and such things. We are putting this Covid-19 support, there we are looking for further support and collectively trying to solve all this. I'm going to ask you really to work here together and maybe not to think... not to divide the country from local governments, not to mention, who are good, who are bad, but really try to work together in a crisis situation, think about education in the context and also about our country... the ability of the country to provide education as such in this crisis, which is, of course, challenging but possible. So thank you. And I hope for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U36	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, and what can be added, can it be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U37	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that there has been a rather broad debate on this - as I said. These amendments were submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission in September... early September. For two months and several meetings, we discussed these amendments, expressed various views, which were expressed today, and as a result the Commission supported these amendments. I also call on Members to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U38	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please, let's vote! For - 61, for - 23, for - 9. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U39	The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 noon on October 9 of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U40	November so. So, November. Please switch the screen to the rapporteur again. Time limit for the submission of proposals and time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U41	The deadline for submitting the proposals - November 9 at 12.00 this year and consideration at the Saeima meeting next week is thus 12. ( The sound is broken.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U42	So on 12 November. Please open the procedure section. Does one of the Members wish to apply with a deadline for the submission of other proposals? Please turn on the microphone for Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U43	Thank you. I propose setting a deadline for the submission of proposals on 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U44	23 November
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U45	23 November Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U46	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's right. And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U47	At the next sitting in the week of 23rd.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U48	26, huh? Thus, Member Pimenov proposes that the deadline for tabling proposals be set at 23 November this year and that the parliamentary session be held at 26 November this year. We must vote in favour of the next deadline. So the suggestion of Member Pimenov. Colleagues! We will first vote in favour of the deadline for tabling the proposals proposed by Member Pimenova. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to Education Law” - November 23, this year, consideration of the Saeima sitting - November 26, this year! Please, let's vote! - 30, 53, abstaining - not. This proposal is not supported. Consequently, the deadline set by the Commission for the submission of proposals - 9 November at 12.00 this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 12 November this year remains in force. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U49	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, dear colleagues! We are currently considering the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” (No. 671/Lp13). This is the third, final, reading. In this draft law, the Commission received 11 proposals for a third reading. All 11 proposals have been supported by the Commission. No debate or diversity of views was found here. And all the Members present have also unanimously supported these proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. This is supported by the Commission. And the point here is that the proposal clarifies the term in the draft law and replaces the word "group" with "group of companies". I also wanted to add that the purpose of this draft law is to take over the requirements of the audiovisual media services directive in national legislation. That is, this is a directive. Third reading. And in fact, we've missed it for at least 60 days. So Proposal 1. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U50	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U51	2. - also a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to exclude Article 1, point 8.1, of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U52	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U53	3. - also a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U54	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U55	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported. There, in this proposal, the legal space and the right legal terms are arranged, the correct commets are put together, and as a result this is a purely legal proposal with its own technical details... out of it. The Commission was unanimously supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U56	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U57	Thank you. Next - 5. - there is also a proposal from the Legal Office. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U58	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U59	Thank you. 6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth paragraphs of Article 21.1 shall be excluded. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U60	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U61	Next - 7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U62	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U63	Thank you. Next - 8. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Mr Puntulis. This is supported. And that's... Section 21.8 (4) of the Law on Electronic Media - Mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers... which will not be used in practice... and the general procedure for issuing administrative acts shall be laid down by the Law on Administrative Procedure. And this is an institution's internal procedure, which the NEPT may, if necessary, also be regulated by a regulatory act. Thus, the fourth paragraph of Section 21.8 of the Law is excluded. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U64	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U65	Thank you. 9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U66	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U67	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U68	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U69	Thank you. 11. - A proposal from Member Linda Liepiņa. There is no support in the Commission. Let me explain very quickly why. If we watch (Not heard.) ... the version of the reading, then this version expresses that... So, yes, I can't hear it. ... number of the specific proposal... In particular, Mrs Liepiņa made it clear in her proposal that (is not to be heard) ... availability of programmes and services is ensured throughout the territory of Latvia and in the countries of the Diaspora residence. And then it was about what... It is, in fact, the whole planet of the earth, because a Latvian would be happy to live in any country, and then automatically it is the place of the Diaspora, the country of the Diaspora. Consequently, it was rejected by the unanimous commission. We cannot support it. We can't know what's happening in any third, let's say, the world... in the country of residence, where any of us, the residents of Latvia, is currently living, and how to bring the respective transmission to him, so that he is informed. Thus, the second reading version remains: “... in the territory of Latvia, as well as in the countries of the Diaspora, according to the annual plans of the public electronic media programmes.” In the Commission, the 11th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U70	Member Stepanenko has asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Mrs. Linda Liepiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 9, against - 58, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U71	Yeah. Thank you for the vote. So, colleagues, we have examined all 11 proposals. And this is the third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I request support for the third, final reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U72	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Law on Military Disciplinary Liability”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U73	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. In its meeting of 7 October this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law “Law on Military Discipline” (No. 662/Lp13). The aim of the draft law “Law on Military Disciplinary Liability” is to regulate, at the level of the law, the issues of military discipline of soldiers and landguards by establishing the grounds of disciplinary responsibility, disciplinary penalties applicable to soldiers and landguards, as well as the procedure for calling soldiers and landguards to disciplinary responsibility. The Commission has received 15 proposals for a third reading. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is editorial in nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U74	Members are in favour. ( Internouncing call.) Members are in favour!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U75	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the expression of Article 7, fourth paragraph, as follows: ‘The professional risk is justified if a soldier or landguard has acted in order to achieve an objective of major importance to society which could not be achieved in another way and has done everything to (not to be heard). ... interests.’ This proposal, too, is a drafting nature proposal, which clarifies more precisely... clarify the definition of professional risk. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U77	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It provides: ‘In the cases referred to in this Article, soldiers or military officers may be detained for a maximum period of three hours for a violation of military discipline.’ The proposal clarifies in editorial terms the third paragraph of Article 17 of the draft law in order to ensure a clear and unambiguous regulation of the cases in which a soldier or a landguard may be detained. That clarification provides that a soldier and a national guard may be detained only in the cases referred to in the first paragraph of Article 17. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U79	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Justification for the proposal The legal framework in force so far for carrying out an investigation into violations of military discipline and the rule of Paragraph Five of Article 19 of the draft law impose on the investigator an obligation to inform the commander if there are circumstances which prevent the investigator from carrying out an investigation of the service objectively. The draft law does not provide for an inventory of the circumstances or criteria in which the investigator would have to withdraw himself from the investigation into the case. In order to ensure the objective and comprehensive conduct of an investigation into the service, the draft law should include certain criteria which, in the presence of an official, must reinstate himself from carrying out an investigation of the service. At the same time, it is necessary to provide in the draft law that the obligation to reset itself from the investigation of the service or the examination of the case, when the investigation of the service is not carried out, shall also apply to the commanders. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U81	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This provides for the exclusion of the words ‘approval inscription’ in point 1(a) of the first paragraph of Article 20. This is a proposal of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U83	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It provides for: ‘Article 20 of the draft law: in point 2(d) of the first subparagraph, the words ‘and any other information characterising the person’ shall be deleted, in the form of point 2(g) of the first subparagraph, ‘(g) the laws, regulations and administrative provisions which have been infringed’; In Article 20, first paragraph, point (4), the words ‘This shall consist of a reference to the investigator and a statement of his approval.’ ‘.’ Justification for the proposal These proposals clarify in editorial terms Article 20, first paragraph, point 2 of the draft law, which requires information to be included in a service investigation opinion. The law removes the requirement to indicate in the opinion of the service investigation any information characterising the person who committed the alleged infringement if only information relevant to the nature of the infringement and likely to affect the nature and extent of the penalty to be imposed is analysed materially in the course of the service investigation. At the same time, the draft law clarifies that the opinion of the service investigation must include a list of the laws and regulations that are violated, not related to the violation. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U85	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. It provides for: ‘The decision on disciplinary measures imposed on a soldier or a military officer shall be taken by the commander... on the basis of the results of an investigation (service investigation) into the violation of military discipline.’ This proposal clarifies the provision of the second paragraph of Article 21 of the draft law, which provides that the decision to impose disciplinary action shall include not only the nature of the sentence but also its scope. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U87	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the replacement of the words ‘type of penalty’ in the fourth paragraph of Article 21 by the words ‘application of disciplinary measures’ and for the transfer of that part to the end of the article and the eighth and ninth paragraphs to the beginning of the article. This is a proposal of a editorial nature. Changing Articles... numbering, as well as... specify... no maturity... to the type of punishment... This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U89	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the title of Article 22 to be worded as follows: ‘The particularities of the procedure for imposing disciplinary measures’. This is a proposal of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U91	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the expression of the first paragraph of Article 23, in the following wording: ‘In person, an order to disciplinary action shall be notified to the soldier or the national guard.’ This is a proposal of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U93	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the replacement of the word ‘application’ in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the fifth paragraph of Article 24 with the words ‘application’. This is a proposal of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U95	12. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It provides that: ‘Article 25 of the draft law: express the first sentence of the first paragraph of Article as follows: ‘The disciplinary measure, with the exception of disciplinary measures referred to in points 7 and 8 of the first paragraph of Article 14 and in points 3 and 5 of the second paragraph of Article 14 of this Law, shall be enforced no later than three months after the expiry of the period of contestation... and it has not been appealed against (the appeal) or a decision of the Board of Appeal or a judgment rejecting the application or application of a soldier’. , to exclude the second paragraph of Article, to exclude the sixth paragraph of Article.’ This proposal clarifies the application of disciplinary action. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U97	13. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It provides for the expression of the title of Article 26 of the draft law, as well as the first and second paragraphs, in the following terms: ‘(...) A disciplinary penalty (except for a reduction in office or leave from service before a specified period of time) shall be extinguished for a professional service soldier six months after the exercise of disciplinary action. ( 2) The disciplinary penalty (except for a reduction or exclusion from the Land Guard) shall be extinguished for six months after execution of the disciplinary penalty.’ This is a editorial nature proposal and also points out: when a penalty is executed, not after application... after execution of the sentence, not after application. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U99	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It provides for the expression of the third paragraph of Article 26 in the following terms: ‘The servicemen of the professional service or the landguard who have been reduced may be reinstated to a previous post or to an equivalent post not earlier than one year’. A clarification of the third paragraph of the article provides for the possibility of reinstatement of servicemen or landguards who have been downgraded to a post equivalent to that of a former post. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U101	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It provides for the replacement of the words ‘announce the expiry of a sentence’ in the fifth paragraph of Article 26 of the draft law, with the words ‘announce the deletion of a disciplinary measure’. This is a proposal of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U103	Consequently, all 15 proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U104	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law on military disciplinary responsibility in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U105	Colleagues! In its meeting of 7 October of this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guard” (No. 663 Lp13). I would remind you that the purpose of this draft law is to establish the disciplinary responsibility of soldiers and the landguards in a single legislative act. The Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the National Armed Forces, drafted a draft law “Law on Military Disciplinary Liability”. This draft law establishes the procedure for ensuring military discipline, the grounds for disciplinary responsibility of soldiers and the landguards and the disciplinary penalties applicable to them, as well as the procedure for dealing with the issues of summoning soldiers and landguards to disciplinary responsibility. No proposals were made for the third reading in this bill. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” at the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U106	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Military Service Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U107	Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 7 October this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” (No. 664/Lp13). The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” is to prevent duplication of certain norms after the law “On Education of Children and Youth in State Defence” and the entry into force of the Military Discipline Law, as well as duplication of certain norms with the regulation of the Arms Movement Law. The Commission has received three proposals for a third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. It provides for the final sentence of the sixth paragraph of Section 17.1 of the Military Service Act included in Article 4 of the draft law in the following wording: ‘If a new guard and a person trained in national defence training enter the professional service, he shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Minister of Defence, receive the basic training course of the soldier’s basic training.’ This proposal... This proposal is of a editorial nature in order to improve the perception of the norm. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U109	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. It provides for the wording of Article 9 of the draft law as follows: ‘Replace in the first paragraph of Article 71 the words ‘ents of the National Armed Forces’ with the words ‘ents of the National Armed Forces, a body providing logistical supplies to soldiers’.’ This proposal is of a editorial nature in order to improve the perception of the norm. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U111	And 3. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It provides for the wording of paragraph 29 of the transitional provisions of the Military Service Act, contained in Article 11 of the draft law, as follows: ‘29. The amendment concerning the exclusion of the first, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 17.1 of this Law shall enter into force at the same time as the Law on State Protection Training and the New Guard.’ Case(s) covered by the draft law... Article 17.1 of the Military Service Act... related to the draft law on the education of children and young people in national defence. Before examining the said draft law in the Saeima at second reading, the Ministry of Defence proposed to change its name - to name it as a law on national defence training and the New Guard, and the Saeima Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission supported the proposal. The relevant draft law has not yet been adopted by the Saeima at second reading, therefore it is not legally correct - to refer in paragraph 29 of the Transitional Provisions of the Military Service Law to the name of the particular law. Thus, the proposal aims to establish in paragraph 29 of the Transitional Provisions of the Military Service Law the area governed by the law in question. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U113	Consequently, all three proposals have been examined in this draft law. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, I am calling for the draft law "Amendments to the Military Service Law" to be approved at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U114	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law, third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law on the Second Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U115	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission looked at the draft law “On the Second Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention”. No proposals were received from the Commission for a second reading. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U116	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the Second Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law on the Council of Europe Convention on Crimes Related to Cultural Values, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U117	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission looked at the draft law “On the Council of Europe Convention on Crimes Related to Cultural Values”. No proposals were also received for the second reading of this draft law. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U118	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the Council of Europe Convention on Crimes Related to Cultural Values, second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the maintenance of the Latvian-Estonian state border and the activities of authorised border representatives”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U119	Colleagues! The Foreign Commission worked with the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the maintenance of the Latvian-Estonian state border and the activities of authorised border representatives”. No proposals were received for second reading within the deadline set for the submission of proposals. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U120	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the maintenance of the Latvian-Estonian state border and the activities of authorised border representatives” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Law on State Border Guard”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U121	Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 7 October of this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed the draft law “Law on State Border Guard” (No. 490/Lp13). I will try to remind you of the purpose of the bill. The aim of the draft law “State Border Guard Law” is to ensure legal and effective functioning of the State Border Guard. The project ensures consistency of the legal regulation of the border guard with other regulatory acts, as well as updates the legal regulation of the border guard according to today. The third reading received 12 proposals. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen, to exclude the word 'it' from Article 5, first paragraph, point 2. This proposal is in line with the terminology used in the draft law on State Border Guard, in which "buildings" and "elements" are separate concepts. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U123	2. - the proposal by the Legal Office to replace the word "others" in the second paragraph of Article 5. The proposal specifies the tasks of the border guard in accordance with the legal technical requirements. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U125	3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to supplement the introductory part of the first paragraph of Article 15 after the word "border guard" with the words "in the performance of his duties". This proposal specifies where to exercise the rights and obligations of border guards, namely "in the performance of their duties". Such structures are also used in other laws of the system, such as the Law on Police. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U127	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to replace the words "inmates and" in point 7 of the first paragraph of Article 15, with the words "incarcerated or". The proposal changes the link according to the requirements of the legal technique and identifies one category of persons against whom a coercion has been applied. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U129	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the expression of the second paragraph of Article 15 and the third paragraph in the following wording: ‘( 2) In the event of the offence, the border guard shall have the right: 1) to enter the public property, possession or possession of a public person in an area, space or vehicle; 2) into a public accessible area, space or vehicle with the permission of the owner, holder or holder; 3) to enter into a public accessible area, space or vehicle without the permission of the owner, holder or holder if the person's life or health is at risk. ( 3) The Border Guard shall inform the Prosecutor's Office in writing without delay, but not later than 24 hours, of any case where the border guard has exercised the rights provided for in paragraph 3 of paragraph 2 of this Article." This proposal by the Legal Bureau provides for the exclusion from the second reading of the right of the border guard to enter ‘moveable property’ by replacing this category with categories ‘property’, ‘territory’ and ‘vehicle’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U131	6. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It provides for the expression of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of paragraph 5 of Article 15 in the following wording: “(1) to invite private persons and their representatives to visit the premises of the Border Guard to receive explanations regarding the purpose, place, time and security of entry and residence of a foreign person; 2) to request from the private person and its representative documents or copies thereof which justify the truthfulness of the information and information provided by the foreigner or his guest; 3) to visit and check the premises and workplaces of the state and local authorities, the Republic of Latvia or a foreign person and its representative, as well as any property owned, held or owned by any other said persons, which is available to the employee, during the specified period of employment of the person concerned without prior notification or authorisation...”. The Commission's proposal for a second reading excluded the concept of a representative of a legal person from the category of private individuals. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U133	7. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen, which is editorially clear. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U135	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the expression of paragraphs 2 and 3 of the first paragraph of Article 16 in the following wording: ‘2 to prevent illegal entry into or possession of real estate or other object in the possession or possession of the Border Guard; 3. to dispose of occupied real estate or other object in the possession or possession of the Border Guard;’. According to the Law on the Structure of the State Administration, public authorities do not have their own property - it is placed in possession. So this is a proposal of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U137	9. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen. In Article 17, the word ‘arm’ is replaced by ‘arm’. This is a proposal of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U139	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It provides for the expression of the second paragraph of Article 18 as follows: ‘The border guard shall be prohibited from organising and participating in strikes.’ The ban on the participation of border guards in the strike is regulated by Section 16 of the Streikų Law, which provides that border guards are prohibited to strike. The second reading includes a ban on the organisation of strikes. Thus - for greater clarity of the legal provisions - the reference to the Streek Law has been removed and both prohibitions are also laid down in this Law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U141	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the addition of paragraph 3 of the transitional provisions after the words ‘on the date of entry into force’, with the words ‘but not more than six months after the date of entry into force of this Law’. This proposal specifies how long the existing Cabinet Regulations will last (in accordance with the standard procedure, how the Cabinet Regulations are extended and time limits are set). The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U143	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the replacement of paragraph 6 of the transitional provision by the words ‘Entryed before the date of entry into force of this Law’ with the words ‘accepted before the date of entry into force of this Law’. This is a editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U145	Consequently, all 12 proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, I invite you to support the draft law “Law on State Border Guard” at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U146	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law on State Border Guard” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 90, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Colleagues! Time to break. Registration of Members is ongoing. It's been a success. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U147	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior’s system of institutions and administration of prison places with special service levels in the law on service progress”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U148	Dear colleagues, In its meeting on 7 October of this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Administration of Prisons with Special Service Steps in the Law on Service Implementation” (No. 489/Lp13) before the third reading. No proposals were received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, I call for support to the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of Interior System Authorities and Administration of Prisons with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Progress” in the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U149	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Progress” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U150	Dear colleagues, Five proposals have been put forward. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This concerns the wording of the second paragraph of Article 35.1 (Article 7 of the draft law), and clarifies the wording relating to the extension of the legal employment relationship to a post of professor. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U152	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It concerns transitional provisions and proposes to make point 53 of the transitional provisions as follows: universities shall, by 31 March 2021, lay down the procedure for the renewal of a contract of employment with a professor and associated professor. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U154	3. - Legal... I'm sorry. 3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. This also applies to transitional provisions, and it provides that if a contract of employment with a professor or associate professor has been concluded by 31 December 2020 and expires before the entry into force of the law, there are special conditions in the transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U156	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It proposes to supplement the draft law with a provision for the entry into force of the law. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U157	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U158	And 5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It shall supplement the draft law with the entry into force provision as follows: ‘The law shall enter into force on 1 January 2021.’ I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U160	I invite you to vote in favour of the third reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U161	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on the Convention of 2 February 1971 on wetlands of international importance, in particular as a living environment for waterbirds”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U162	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Convention of 2 February 1971 on Moors of International Interest, especially as Waterbirds’ Life Environment”. No proposals were sent and received to the Commission at the third reading. I call on Members to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U163	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Convention of 2 February 1971 on Wetlands of International Interest, especially as Waterbirds’ Life Environment”” at the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U164	Colleagues, welcome again! See the bill “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”” (No. 399/Lp13). Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third, final, reading of the draft law. In the Commission, we have received four proposals. This bill is a good time on the Saeima's agenda, not the first term. That is, it is about municipal newspapers; sometimes they are really no longer informative, but now there are newspapers. On behalf of the Commission, I will talk about the proposals received. 1. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Puntulis. This is supported. This clarifies the wording of the second reading, stating that not only municipalities but also their authorities are prohibited from establishing and publishing media. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U166	Thank you. 2. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Puntulis. This has been partly supported by proposal 3, which is a Commission proposal (as I have already said, this draft law has been in the Saeima for a long time, through various commissions, this draft law has travelled). In particular, this is about the deadline - that the municipalities and their institutions until 31 December 2019... Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is now 2020. The idea therefore remains the same, but the date is changed. So proposal 2 has been partly supported and included in the next one - 3. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U167	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U168	Thank you. Proposal No 3. As I said, it is a proposal from the committee responsible - the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs - where this deadline is specified. In particular, it concerns the submission by municipalities and their authorities of an application to the Register of Enterprises for the removal from the register of the media held by them by 31 December 2020. The State fee in such cases does not have to be paid by the municipality. If, within that period, no notice of exclusion from the register has been received by the owner of the media, the national notary of the Register of Enterprise shall amend the register and shall exclude such media from the register by itself until 31 December 2021. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, this registration has been prohibited since 1 January 2020. There can be no such thing. If any municipality has not done so, then it will happen within a year... with a responsible notary... And until 31 December 2021 it shall be excluded from the register. The Commission was unanimously supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U170	Thank you. And the last one is 4. - the proposal of the committee responsible, namely the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, to supplement the draft law with an indication of the entry into force of the law: "The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication." The Commission was unanimously supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U172	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at third, final reading, for the draft law on "Amendments to the law on the press and other media" (No. 399/Lp13).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U173	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems. ( Pause) Will Mr Gobzem report this bill? Perhaps the Chairman of the Legal Commission can report if Mr Gobzem has technical problems? Mr. Jušas, can you report on this bill?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U174	Hello, colleagues! Trying to direct... So - we are currently looking at the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Courts” (No. 504/Lp13). Four proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau to exclude the third paragraph of Article 1 of the draft law (on the addition of the third paragraph of Article 2 of the law). Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U175	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U176	I'm sorry, colleagues, I had something to do with internet connection...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U177	But Mr. Jušas is already reporting...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U178	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U179	Do you want to debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U180	No, I don't want to debate, I'm just very sorry, something about Internet connection...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U181	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U182	There's nothing to say. I would like to remind you that the Commission has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U184	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the addition of Article 4 with the third paragraph in the following wording: ‘The principles of independence of courts and guarantees of judges shall be determined in accordance with the law governing the judiciary’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U186	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for replacing in the first and second paragraphs of Article 5 of the law the words ‘in whose territory a military court is located’ with the words ‘in whose territory the military court is located’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U188	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It provides for the addition of a new article to the draft law: “Complement the first paragraph of Article 13 with a sentence in the following wording: “The order shall be published in the Official Journal of Latvia”. “ With the support of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U190	All the proposals submitted have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U191	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U192	The deadline for submitting proposals is two weeks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U193	That's right?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U194	November 19th.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U195	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 19 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U196	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Forests” (No. 772 Lp13). The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Forests” has been drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture, first of all, in order to find an opportunity to dispose of state-owned real estate, whether built or not, in which also state-owned forest land is located, which is not necessary for the exercise of public administration functions. The State will thus be released from the obligation to maintain useless real estate and a solution will be found for the termination of the shared property. Secondly, the draft law also provides for the possibility to dispose of state forest land for the expansion of industrial production if it is located within the territory of an industrial plant or the manufacturing plant bordering the state forest land. And thirdly, it is planned to reduce the administrative burden on individuals by receiving information about the forest from the State Forest Register. This draft law is supported by the Commission. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U197	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U198	Deadline for submission of proposals - 26 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U199	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 November this year. Draft law “On real estate in Brīvības iela 37B, Ogre, Ogre district, disposal for public needs”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U200	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 October 2020, the draft law “On disposal of real estate in the district of Brīvības iela 37B, Ogre, Ogres, for public needs” (No. 612/Lp13). The draft law is intended to dispose of real estate in Brīvības iela 37B, Ogre, Ogre district, Ogre general preschool educational institution “Cīrulitis” and Ogre Central Library building construction. And disposal is the only way to achieve this goal. No proposal was submitted in accordance with the established procedure and within the deadline. The Legal Commission has examined the draft law and supported it for the second reading. I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U201	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On real estate in Brīvības iela 37B, Ogre, Ogres district, expropriation for public needs”, second reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U202	The deadline for submitting proposals is 19 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U203	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 19 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Gauja National Park Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U204	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Gauja National Park” (No. 771/Lp13), second reading. Two proposals have been submitted to the Commission. Both are proposals from the responsible commission. Proposal No 1. Well, here it determines what activities without a forest management plan are allowed in the nature reserve zone. These points are supplemented by a new point, which states: ‘... the felling of trees in another cuts to the protection and conservation of species and habitats, the conservation of cultural monuments, the long-term reconstruction of artificial forest stands, the improvement of the quality of the landscape, the establishment and maintenance of sightseeing points after receiving a positive opinion from the administration’. Therefore, such a point has also been included. These are all works to be carried out in the area without the permission of the forest management plan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U206	Thank you. And 2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Well, here just slightly changed forest management activities that can be carried out in the ownership of the municipality. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U208	I therefore call on Members to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U209	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Gauja National Park Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U210	The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U211	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Liability Insurance of Owners of Land Vehicles”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U212	Dear President, Honourable Members! In fact, all the proposals submitted for the second reading of the draft law have been supported. 1. - The proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik, a Member of the Prime Minister. His proposal states that in future, the use of special military equipment registered in the National Armed Forces Register in road traffic is no longer covered by compulsory civil insurance. In the Commission, proposal 1 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U214	2. - a proposal from Members Feldman and Muižniece. This proposal provides for an insurance period for those vehicles which have been granted the status of a historic vehicle by the Riga Motor Museum Expert Commission. This reduction is one month - three or six, or nine, or 12 months instead. I call for support. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U215	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U216	Hello, Members! I expected Anita Muižniece to start... as the first to come to talk, but... I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is the right proposal, because historical vehicle owners have long pointed out that they need a smaller time limit within which they could insure their cars, because, as we know, they do not use these cars regularly, but perhaps only a few days in this season. But! I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are other vehicles which... It is necessary to provide for the possibility to cover them for a lower period of time. I think that the month would also apply to motorcycles... these vehicles too, because... As an example, the moto season begins around April; of course, another time - also in March. And if motorcycling drivers have the opportunity to insure for six or nine months, then most motorcycling drivers choose to insure for nine months. And that means that nine months is about December when these vehicles are not being used; six months is about September. And, as we can see, this season... The motor season continued in October... and even now can be done. I therefore believe that it would be necessary to provide for the possibility for these vehicles to be extended to the duration of the common insurance contract... the possibility to insure your vehicle for one month. Of course, I believe that this whole proposal should perhaps be rejected, but... and add to the third reading... the possibility that the vehicle... a standard contract shall be concluded for one, three, six, nine or 12 months... That would be my opinion. I believe that it could reduce these expenses to compulsory insurance directly by motor vehicles... owners of these vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U217	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U218	Yeah... Hello, dear colleagues! As Mr Kirštein rightly mentioned, Mr Feldman and I referred to the historic request from vehicle owners to prepare this proposal. We are very happy that it has been prepared in the Commission because, indeed, historic vehicles are those who... So in order to get this status at all, there is a condition that they do not participate in everyday traffic. And so there's this reason why this reduced deadline for OCTA... insurance. As far as Mr Ģirgens is concerned, of course, I too would like to buy an OCTA for a smaller term, as a motorist, at some point, and when it is not so good. However, given that the climate is getting warmer, I really believe that it is not really realistic either. And, as representatives of insurers have pointed out to us during the debate on this proposal, it is far from a guarantee... Such a reduction in maturity does not guarantee a significant reduction in the policy payment itself. Well, that's a replica. But I am calling for this proposal, of course, to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U219	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U220	The Commission is in favour. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U221	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Members Feldman and Muižniece! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U222	3. - the proposal of Minister of Finance Reira, which specifies in Article 9, what data should be provided to insurers. In point ‘f’ of the second subparagraph of the first subparagraph, grammatical correction: the word ‘vehicle’ shall be replaced by the word ‘car’. And it is added that data should also be provided on cars with taxi numbers. The Commission has supported this. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U224	4. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which specifies the conditions of the insurance contract which expires before the deadline, i.e. if the taxi number sign has been removed or the passenger transport licence expires, or if the vehicle with the Latvian number plate is registered abroad. The Commission has supported this. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U226	5. - the proposal by Members Muižniece and Feldman, supplementing Article 14, second paragraph, paragraph 3, that if parents, guardians or foster families raise a minor child with disabilities, they shall be entitled to a 40 per cent reduction in the insurance premium.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U227	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U228	Good afternoon, colleagues! In principle, I already presented this proposal to the Saeima in the summer of 2019 as a separate draft law, which was also referred by the Saeima to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. However, as we have heard today, it has not been the only one who has stuck in commissions drawers, so to speak, and... Well, nothing! Most importantly, we have finally reached the point of examination of the initiative. As Mr Kiršteina has already said, the wording of Article 14 of the Land Vehicle Owners’ Compulsory Liability Insurance Act provides for reduced insurance premiums for the first and second groups of disabled persons, as well as for the third group of disabled persons who have difficulty moving. But this proposal is designed to put an end to the unfair treatment of families... including those who bring up a child with disabilities in the care of an extra-family who, we understand, is not responsible for their own movement. But the person who provides this movement, i.e. the parent, guardian or foster family, is currently not able to pay a reduced insurance premium. I therefore believe that supporting this proposal will provide substantial additional support for families with one or more children with disabilities. According to the Ministry of Welfare, they are about 8,000 families. Supporting this proposal will certainly prevent the legislator from treating these families unjustly, because it is important for me to stress this! - is an essential necessity, not a luxury thing. Therefore, both family and society, I believe, will generally appreciate this legislative step. And with regard to the sources of funding and the budgetary implications, I will explain in more detail in the next proposal relating to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U229	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U230	The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U231	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U232	6. - a proposal from Members Muižniece and Feldman. It shall specify the arrangements under which this insurance premium is to be applied. This method of reducing the insurance premium is applied to the owner of one vehicle to which the vehicle is owned in the case of leasing - if he is indicated as the holder... or a light-duty vehicle with a gross mass not exceeding 3,5 tonnes. This reduction in premium is not applicable if the legal entity is indicated as the holder of the vehicle registration certificate. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U233	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U234	Yeah... In addition to what Mr Kirštein has already explained, it is important to mention that, according to the data provided by the insurer, in 2018 the number of vehicles owned by persons with a disability... Almost 70 per cent of the cases were one vehicle, while 28 per cent were two to three. And in four percent of cases - more than three vehicles. In my opinion, the recordist was the owner of 23 vehicles, which are then subject to this Octa policy reduction. Therefore, in consultations with both the Ministry of Finance and the Financial and Capital Market Commission and with the Latvian Vehicle Insurers' Office we have reached this agreement on a version that I think is fair - that this discount, this reduced payment, can only be applied to one vehicle. And therefore, the previously supported proposal has a neutral impact on the Octa Guarantee Fund. So I'm calling for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U235	Thank you. I closed the debate. I understand that the speaker supports the opinion of the Commission. Members support proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U236	Members are in favour. Thank you. 7. - The proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik, a Member of the Prime Minister. It shall specify the arrangements for compensation for damage caused by special military equipment to road traffic accidents in a State of the European Economic Area or in the Swiss Confederation. In particular, the Office of Latvian Vehicle Insurers examines applications for damages caused outside Latvia, takes a decision within 70 days and notifys the Ministry of Defence, which within five days of the decision... Well, actually, within five days, they have to notify the Ministry of Defence... they must be notified. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U237	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U238	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik, a Member of the Prime Minister. It states that after taking its decision, the Ministry of Defence shall within five days either... if the decision is negative, either replace... in my apologies, pay the remuneration five days after the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U239	Members support proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U240	Thank you. Proposal No 8. Submitted by Minister for Defence Pabriks. He shall provide that, within five days of the decision on payment of the remuneration, written information is sent to the claimant. And the Ministry of Defence shall submit the documents relating to this decision and the fixed information and the amount of the loss... That is, the Vehicle Insurers' Office submits... to the Ministry of Defence all documents...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U241	Thank you, Mr Kirštein, proposal 8 has already been supported. Proposal No 9 now.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U242	Proposal 9 was submitted by a Member of the Prime Minister by Minister of Defence Pabriks. Proposal 9 states that the word ‘non-payment’ should be replaced by ‘renunciation’. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U244	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's similar. It's supported... Like the previous... The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U246	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence of the Prime Minister, Pabriks, which clarifies how to refuse... specify, in particular, that the refusal must be notified within 70 days if the remuneration is not decided upon.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U248	12. - The proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik, a Member of the Prime Minister. It provides that, within 15 days of the receipt of the decision of the Office of Vehicle Insurers on the payment of remuneration, this remuneration shall be paid to the claimant who submitted the documents in accordance with the procedure laid down in the first paragraph. And sent... So his request... And a proof of payment shall be sent to the Vehicle Insurers' Office. I mean, within 15 days...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U250	13. - The proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik, a Member of the Prime Minister. It provides that, at the request of the Bureau of Vehicle Insurers, within one month of receipt of the request, the Office of Vehicle Insurers shall be reimbursed by the Ministry of Defence. Consequently, the administration costs are reimbursed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U252	The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U253	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U254	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik, a Member of the Prime Minister. It shall provide that in order to regulate the compensation for damage caused by special military equipment in cases where the cross-border element has not been involved in the road traffic accident referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the rules of this Law on the procedure for the assessment of losses and calculation of insurance compensation shall be applied, ensuring the same treatment as in cases where the damage was caused by a vehicle the owner of which has not insured his civil liability. Regulation No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 regulating compensation for damage caused by special military equipment in the event of an accident involving a cross-border element referred to in the first subparagraph of this Article shall apply. 864/2007 (on legislation governing such obligations).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U256	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik, a Member of the Prime Minister. If the loss or damage has been caused to a soldier of the National Armed Forces of Latvia or a landguard, he shall have the right to receive compensation on the basis of this Law as well as in compliance with the laws and regulations governing social guarantees. Administration... In particular, the Ministry of Defence pays the higher remuneration. Thus, out of two possible rewards, he is entitled to the highest remuneration. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U258	16. - The proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik, a Member of the Prime Minister. If, in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article, compensation for damages paid to the claimant provides for one, but the international agreements binding on the Republic of Latvia provide for other arrangements for payment of compensation, the Ministry of Defence must take care that the provisions of these international agreements are complied with and that the obligations laid down in these agreements are fulfilled. The international treaty is above the level of local agreements. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U260	17. - the proposal by Mr Pabriks, Minister of Defence of the Prime Minister, which regulates the compensation for damage caused by military technology outside the territory of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. In these cases, compensation for damages shall be in accordance with international agreements concluded between Latvia and the countries concerned. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U262	18. - the proposal of the Minister for Finance Reira, which provides for the application of Regulation No. of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on the regulation of non-contractual relations arising from road traffic accidents. 864/2007. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U264	19. - The proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik, a Member of the Prime Minister. It provides for the addition of points 21 and 22 of the transitional provisions as follows: ‘Articles 3.1, 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 of this Law shall enter into force on 1 January 2021.’ The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U266	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Prime Minister's Defence Minister Pabrik, which the Commission has supported. It provides for the exclusion of a reference to the time of the entry into force of the law, since it was previously foreseen that the law would enter into force on 1 July 2020. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U268	I invite you to support the second reading...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U269	Another 21 will be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U270	It's supported, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U271	21 Members support the proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Kirstein: “He makes a reference... “ Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners”! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U272	Please submit your proposals to the third reading by 12 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U273	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens. ( Pause) Mr. Pucene, you have to report a bill. ( Pause) Well, colleagues, apparently Eric Pucen can't report. Can the Commission President, Mrs Goldberg, report on this bill?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U274	Yeah. Hello!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U275	Thank you. We knew you could be trusted.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U276	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, hearing the State Audit Office, the Latvian Municipal Union and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, discussed extensively the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of the Member of the City Council and Council of the Republic” submitted by Member Pucena, Pugas, Nemiro, Zakaistova and Benhena-Beken, however, decided to support it and direct it to the first reading of the Saeima sitting. The draft law provides for the exclusion of Article 15.1 which provides for the right to receive a monthly allowance to former municipal council presidents and their vice-chairmen in compliance with a number of criteria. The Commission agreed, in support of the draft law, that the draft law... it needs to be improved significantly further to the second reading. And... Despite that... Considering that it is indeed necessary to review and evaluate this provision... and, in order to respect the principle of legitimate expectations, it is necessary to regulate it in a transitional manner which is not provided for in the draft law. This is why the Commission agreed to set a long time-frame for the submission of proposals in order to establish the most appropriate criteria and to define transitional provisions. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U277	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 68, for - 4, for - 12. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U278	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 5 January 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U279	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 5 January 2021. Draft law “Amendments to the Archive Act”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U280	Hello, colleagues! We are looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Archive Act” (No. 366/Lp13). In brief, the purpose of the draft law is to harmonise the requirements of national laws and regulations on the processing of personal data in national documentary heritage documents in accordance with the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation. This also means that when using national documentary heritage documents, public interests must be balanced with the data subject's right to data protection. As we can see, on the whole, the Saeima Commission is leading 41 proposals. There has been a long and wide-ranging debate and a number of Commission versions have been created, largely based on proposals from the Ministry of Culture. Proposal No 1 (i.e. the first of the 41 proposals) is the proposal by Juhvevič, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, which provides for a different wording of the term "storage of the depositary". This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U282	2. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič, which provides for the exclusion of Article 1(13), namely the term 'document system'. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U284	3. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture Juhvevičs, which requires the institution to carry out document management as one of its responsibilities, ensuring that documents are classified and systematised (in place of the creation of the document system!) . The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U286	4. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič, which provides for the replacement of the words "for a period of time" in point 2 of the second paragraph of Article 4. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U288	5. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič. It is partly supported and included 6. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U289	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U290	6. - the proposal of the committee responsible to supplement Section 4 (2) (3) of the Law with the words “or deposit of depositaries in the National Archives of Latvia”. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U292	7. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič. It provides for the addition of Article 4, second paragraph, point 4, second and third sentences to read as follows: ‘The documents held by the institution shall also be those deposited by the institution with an accredited private archive. The preservation, protection, accessibility and use of the documents deposited in the depository by the National Archives of Latvia in accordance with the terms of the concluded contract shall be ensured by the National Archives of Latvia.” The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U294	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič, which intends to supplement the third paragraph of Article 4, after the words "classification schemes" with the words "archively valuable". The Commission concluded that the current wording was sufficiently clear and that no such addition was necessary and that proposal 8 was therefore not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U295	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U296	9. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture Juhvevič, which provides for the exclusion of the words "and methodological assistance" in the sixth paragraph of Article 4, as the National Archives do not provide methodological assistance as such. National archives provide advice only to institutions. The Commission is therefore in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U298	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič. It has been partly supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U299	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U300	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible relating to the extension of the storage period. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U302	12. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the details to be given in the request for use of the archive document. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U304	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This provides for the exclusion of Article 12.3.1, which in essence only refers to external legislation, and the Commission therefore chose to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U306	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič. Partly supported and included in 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U307	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U308	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a Commission proposal supplementing Article 13, second paragraph, point 2, with the following sentence: "Unless otherwise provided in other laws, the restrictions on access to documents laid down in this paragraph shall apply for a period of 30 years after This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U310	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is partly supported and included in 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U311	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U312	17. - a proposal by the Commission to replace the words "sensitive personal data" in point 4 of the second paragraph of Article 13, with the words "specific categories of personal data" (related to the Regulation). The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U314	18. - the Commission's proposal, which is editorial. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U316	19. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič. Partly supported and included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U317	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U318	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the Commission's proposal, which shall state the sixth paragraph of Article 13, in the following wording: "The decision to issue documents for use or to refuse to issue them shall be taken not later than within one month by an official authorised by the Director of the National Archives of Latvia or by the head of the department or by the institution holding the documents. The decision may be appealed and appealed against in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Procedure Law.” This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U320	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the The Commission had an exchange of views and this proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U321	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U322	22. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. This is partly supported and included in two Commission proposals - proposals 27 and 31.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U323	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U324	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture providing for the rewording of point 4 of the third paragraph of Article 14. The Commission decided to leave the version in force, i.e. this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U325	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U326	24. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič. Partly supported and included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U327	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U328	25. - the proposal of the committee responsible, which indicates more precisely the idea of proposal 24, namely that the document is excluded from the national documentary heritage by a decision of the Director of the National Archives of Latvia if it is obtained unlawfully. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U330	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the exclusion of Article 3 of the draft law, which also consists only of references to regulation and other external laws and regulations. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U332	27. - a proposal from the committee responsible to supplement the law by Article 15.1 by the following wording: "Restriction to include documents illegally acquired in the composition of the national documentary heritage"... and following the explanations. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U334	28. - the proposal of the committee responsible, which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the procedure for entering and updating data of the State Single Archives Information System, as well as the procedure for accessing and using the system for institutions. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U336	29. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič. It is partly supported and included 28. - the Commission's proposal, which has just been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U337	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U338	30. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture Juhvevičs, which is related to the failure to provide methodological assistance to the institutions I mentioned earlier. I mean, we turned it off... This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U340	31. - the proposal of the committee responsible, which provides that the National Archives of Latvia within the scope of this Law shall have the right to exercise pre-emption rights. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U342	32. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. Partly supported and included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U343	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U344	33. - a proposal from the committee responsible which, in substance, clarifies Article 22 (4). The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U346	34. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. 35 have been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U347	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U348	35. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which is also of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U349	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U350	36. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič, which provides for a different procedure in the event of termination or withdrawal of the private archives. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U351	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U352	37. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. It is partly supported and included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U353	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U354	38. - the proposal of the Commission, which provides that the Latvian National Archives shall cancel the accreditation of the private archive before the expiry of the accreditation period, if the private archive does not meet the conditions for accreditation laid down in this Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U356	39. - a proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture providing that the Cabinet of Ministers lays down the procedure for the accreditation and cancellation of a private archive. Given that the procedure for withdrawal of accreditation is laid down by law, the Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U357	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U358	40. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Juhvevič. Partly supported and included 41. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U359	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U360	And the last one is 41. - Commission proposal setting the time limits stipulated by the law of the Cabinet of Ministers... Delegated acts. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U362	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U363	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Archive Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U364	The Commission decided that the deadline for submitting proposals would be three weeks, i.e. 26 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U365	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 26 November. Draft law ‘Amendments to criminal law’, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U366	Hello! The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for second reading a draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law” (No. Lp13). 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, which intends to supplement Article 141 of the Criminal Law with a new paragraph - Part 2.1. It has to be said that, at present, Article 141 already contains the second paragraph. It also states that ‘[t]he deliberate withdrawal of a person who is in a state of danger to life or health and who is not in a position to maintain himself because of a minor, age, illness or disability, where the perpetrator has been able to provide assistance to the victim and has been obliged to take care of him or has placed him in a state of danger to life...’. It provides for criminal liability. The new section 2.1 provides that if the failure to provide assistance resulted in the death of a person or other serious consequences, the penalty is more severe, with deprivation of liberty for a period of up to four years or temporary deprivation of liberty or forced labour or with a fine. In the Commission, the proposal of the Minister of Justice was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U368	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is a editorial amendment. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U370	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is a editorial technical correction. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U372	4. - editorial technical proposal by the Minister of Justice Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U374	5. - editorial technical proposal by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordans. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U376	And also 6. - editorial technical proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U378	Please support the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U379	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Law! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U380	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 19 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U381	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 19 November this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Apartment Property Law”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U382	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Amendments to the Housing Property Law were reviewed by the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, and I will tell you a little bit why such amendments are necessary. The amendment of the law aims to promote access to the environment for people with disabilities. They provide for the right for the owner of the apartment to install, without coordination with other residents of the house, a lift in the premises of the common property; to restore a landscaped area or access road; to build a pandemic if the apartment property has a separate entrance; as well as to create a marked parking lot for people with disabilities. Before we looked at the Commission, these amendments were also examined in the apartments... The housing sub-committee together with experts from the responsible ministries. It was discussed whether or not to combine other similar amendments with another law. However, the Commission had a rather broad debate and, following reservations from the responsible ministries against the merger of the two amendments, the Commission decided to continue to consider the amendments separately. And that is why these amendments are being directed at the first reading and I call for their support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U383	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U384	Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Saeima. As one of the authors of the draft law, I would like to say that our aim is to ensure that the owner of the apartment without special permits from the neighbors would be allowed to install a lift in the premises of the stairs, to restore a landscaped area or access road, which is shared with others, and to build a driveway. This would facilitate access to the environment for people with disabilities. At the moment it has been established that the person concerned must collect... obtain the consent of owners of at least 75 per cent of the apartments. We are calling for this bureaucratic obstacle to be removed. It is often the case that these signatures are never collected, since some of the owners of the apartments live abroad or are unattainable. It is often impossible to collect the necessary number of signatures even if the disabled person himself has to do so; this person simply cannot physically do so. And you will be surprised that, unfortunately, there are also cases where people with disabilities manage to reconcile all the necessary construction works in the responsible institutions and obtain the necessary funding, but this cannot be changed, because some neighbours do not consider it necessary. You may have seen a story about Mrs. Rēzekne, who was in such a situation. It's despair! Such situations should not be allowed. I believe that no signatures should be collected to address such issues relating to the human right to free movement and access to the environment. That is why our draft law aims to reduce the bureaucratic burden. People with disabilities do not have to be hostages in their homes. This is just the first reading. We are ready to work together with the Legal Bureau and the Ministry of Economics to make legally correct changes to the law. It is clear, however, that this situation needs to be addressed quickly. I would like to thank Regina Ločmele, the Head of the Sub-Commission on Housing of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government for her support and willingness to engage in a solution. Request to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U385	The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U386	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Thus, the amendments provide that the owner of an apartment - a person with disabilities - without special permits from neighbouring countries (but at the same time - subject to safety regulations, environmental accessibility requirements and appropriate local government regulations for the harmonisation of construction works!) may install a lift in the premises of the ladder or where necessary. Currently, the Apartment Property Law provides that in order to make the environment accessible, the person concerned must collect... obtain the consent of owners of at least 75 per cent of the apartments. I insist that signatures should not be collected at all, because I am in favour of social justice. We live in a humanitarian society, but when we look at the situations in life, we see a lot more to change. And above all, public opinion and attitude. I call for empathy and support for the vulnerable, and therefore for the right of people with disabilities to get into and out of their place of residence. The amendments were prepared and submitted already at the beginning of January this year, and finally they have been supported by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and are being directed to the Saeima's first reading. In his September letter to Members, the Ombudsman has also indicated that people with disabilities are discriminated against by requiring them to collect signatures for the construction of the necessary infrastructure, and has called for changes to the laws and regulations by the end of this year. I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to the members of the Commission on Public Administration and Local Government who supported the first reading of the proposals, because the discussions and the opposition were, unfortunately, great on the part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the officials in charge of the Ministry of Justice. A wide range of grounds were invented for not supporting the proposals and no supporting ones were mentioned... Proposal for a Regulation of the During the sitting, Members tried to tell us why this should not be done - instead of offering a solution for better implementation in life. The Ministry of Economics said that we should not combine our proposals with those of the Ministry, the more important it is to speed up amendments to the apartment law... for electric car parks and charging connections, because a timely failure to implement it may result in a penalty from the European Commission. So once again the homework hasn't been done and everything has to be done in a hurry. The provision of electric car parking places to the Ministry appears to be much more important than the improvement of living conditions for people with disabilities, which could have been done for many years. I think I don't have to miss a long talk. We all understand how a wheelchair person feels, to whom three steps in the stairwell space mean that no further can be reached until a healthy person can overcome them with a single leap. Therefore, I invite you to support the prepared proposal, as well as not to stop and continue improving the quality of life of Latvian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U387	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U388	Yeah... Thank you to the applicants for this draft law. I did not, however, know that the situation was so serious. I was a couple of weeks ago... My own proposals were also in the law... The property law... and in the same - the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. And I just wanted to give you a bag like that. Of course, we should support it. No doubt! But it's the bag that's... a working group was set up to ban all these bans... what you can't do... they should put forward this as a Commission proposal. And my proposal was that... Well, you can't, wherever you want, put your car in multi-apartment houses, because there can't access either firefighters or emergency medical care, because everywhere brutally parked cars, and you can't just access it, the street is blocked... or its inlet. I see these things, both of them, go in parallel and... Please, that bag is that... That working group, I think, is Mr Valaiņš, and I think there is also Regina Lochmele. And, in my opinion, Arthur Tom Pelles, who is also the applicant, is there too. In any case, that task force is there. Let's go ahead and we don't share this single thing! It happens that there are separate puzzles for these apartment owners - one is about access, one is about these disabled support systems and so on. It's just that everything in one package should go forward so that the commission works with it all. Thank you. And please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U389	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U390	Yeah... Good evening, colleagues! Clearly, the proposal is to be welcomed. I just want to remind you that... I would not thank those to whom I thank you. One thing is that you can build and take care of something there. Another thing is that, let's assume, in the municipality of Riga, it is necessary to wait in the queue to qualify for some kind of municipal funding, so that this lift can also be installed. At a time when I was still a Member of the Riga City Council, we had calculated how much funding it would be necessary to eliminate this line in principle, and those Members to whom you thank voted against this proposal. That is why I would not believe it at all and would not trust it now on the cave and thank you. Let's work. This will not solve the whole problem, this is just a step forward. And I hope everyone will talk to their Riga City Council colleagues to solve this problem financially in Riga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U391	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U392	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, the debate in the Commission was quite broad, but support for the first reading of the draft law was unanimous. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U393	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Apartment Property Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U394	The deadline for proposals is 4 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U395	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 December this year. Colleagues! Questions have been put to Members. Members Zarins, Klementjevs, Rubiks, Ločmele and Agešins have submitted the question ‘On the information contained in the report submitted by the Saeima on the compliance of subsidised power plants with State aid conditions’. We hand it over to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Klementjevs, Rubiks, Lochmele and Tutin have submitted a question “On differences in the regulations of MK, which are developed by the Ministry of Economics, regulating electricity production, monitoring and pricing in the framework of mandatory procurement from renewable energy sources and cogeneration, regarding the non-compliance of the operation of the power plant with regulatory enactments”. We hand it over to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Švecova, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Dombrovskis and Gobzem have submitted the question “On State aid for public health”. We hand it over to the Minister for Health. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Kucins, Lochmele and Goldberga have submitted a question “On procurement of inadequate respiratory equipment from SIA “TITLED”, on the adoption of the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, on the use of respiratory equipment and on late testing of respiratory equipment in an accredited laboratory”. The reason for the question is given to the Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U396	Good evening, colleagues! How do you remember...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U397	One moment, Mr. Zarin! You should apply. This option will be put into the system immediately. Can we put it in the system? Please log in! Thank you. The name of Member Ivars Zarins - motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U398	Thank you. Colleagues! How do you remember...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U399	There is no time report. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “May I finish... “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U400	As you remember, my fellow Members, at the previous sitting of the Saeima, I promised you that, in addition to the fact that we are investigating the OIC sphere, there will be no neglect on the subject of the Covid-19 cover for mask procurement. Already in the summer, as you remember, we have prepared a request for these purchases, we have pointed out the strange circumstances of these purchases. All this was bought by circumventing the law, unable to produce documents to prove the validity of this good, then, later, by changing them... It was also unable to provide any documents at that time. On the other hand, you colleagues from the coalition of power, when they should have voted against this request, said that this was not justified. We are therefore once again preparing these issues, and there will also be a request for it. It will be possible to show how legal, honest and wise you are when you have to decide on national matters that affect you yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U401	The question is referred to the Prime Minister. Members Zarins, Kucins, Klementjevs, Rubiks and Tutin have submitted the question “On the liability of state officials in relation to procurement of inadequate respiratory equipment from SIA “TITLED”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Pause) Apply again, yes. You already know what to do.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U402	This issue is also in the context...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U403	Time report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U404	This issue is in the context of this same procurement. We want to clarify the Prime Minister's opinion on this. What does he think? Is this happening when, in a strange way, the respiratoryians have been bought bypassing the law, failing to submit the necessary documents and, as a result, requiring the whole society to use safety-free personal protective equipment - is there anyone responsible or not? We very much hope that Kariņš, whose ability to act is expressed by his coalition colleagues, will be a respected captain and will be able to make clear who is then responsible for his team and deal with this storm that has been raised by all his own... the members of the team.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-05-PT13-2134-U405	The question is referred to the Prime Minister. Please open a section on the procedure. Thank you. It's open. Members of Parliament Šteins, Baumane, Papule, Dombrovskis and Švecova are asking to declare a break in the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 5 November this year until... at 17.00... until 9 a.m. on 12 November this year. Colleagues! We must vote on this. Please call me! Let us vote for a break by 9 a.m. on November 12th this year! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. So, by 9 a.m. on November 12, this year. Registration of participants is also required. It was a success. I ask the political leaders to remind Members that they must report during the sitting... that they are ready to report on specific draft laws. Thank you all for your work today. ( Interruption)
