ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let's start the remote emergency sitting on 29 October this year! Changes to the agenda for the Bureau meeting were tabled. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks to exclude from the agenda of the meeting the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” until further decision by the Commission. Colleagues, we must vote on this. Please activate the procedure section! Can we vote? Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of excluding the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law from the agenda of the Saeima sitting until further commission decision. Please, let's vote! For - 68, for - no, for - 1. So the decision has been made. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda, examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! The draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” provides for... Thus, the first paragraph of Section 9 of the law, which deals with alcohol checks for drivers without delivery to a medical institution, does not apply if there is a reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has occurred. Secondly, in the interests of epidemiological security, cases of prisoners shall be examined primarily in the courts by means of videoconferencing, with the exception of cases containing an object of national secrecy. The third law was supplemented by Article 50.1 which provides that a warning or a fine of up to EUR 50 should be applied to the non-use of the oral and nasal cover. Administrative infringement proceedings for cases of this kind will be carried out by the State or municipal police. And the fourth - the law supplemented by the fact that... if it is softened, it shall have no retroactive effect in order to be able to bring to an end the pending cases. In the Commission, after hearing the institutions, experts, including the Ombudsman’s Office, on the application of administrative penalties for non-use of masks, the draft law was supported. The Commission is asking for urgency to be established for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U3	Does one of the Members want to talk about urgency? I call on you to apply. Will you talk about it or about it? ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak against”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U4	Dear colleagues, I will call on you not to support the urgency of this draft law today because this draft law contains a norm on the punishment of persons for not wearing a particular object on their face. So not wearing face masks - a penalty. Other standards can be distributed equally well in other draft laws if they are truly urgent. As regards penalties, I believe that, since this is a completely new regulation, a completely new obligation imposed on persons by the legislator, this obligation must be properly discussed first of all. Secondly, you need to understand what the legislator really wants the person to draw on his face. Thirdly, I believe that, given that no information has yet been included in this draft law at first reading on how we can provide these items for the poor and the poor, then moving this draft into an urgent procedure, allowing only for the submission of amendments to second reading, without also discussing amendments which also provide for... the provision of these items to vulnerable groups is a very risky measure from the human rights point of view. We are not talking at this time about the fact that the legislator wants to protect all people from infection, we are talking about the fact that the legislator is creating a completely unclear situation as to how these rules can be complied with by vulnerable groups. And whether the more vulnerable people are using these masks repeatedly or wearing these masks by pulling them out of the waste bins does not expose them to even greater health risks than wearing masks at all. Colleagues, this is a very serious issue, and if you really want to create a structure with penalties, then this structure needs to be discussed very carefully, with all the responsible authorities involved, because the Ombudsman's representative mentioned exactly the same fact that, in order to ensure penalties, it is also necessary to ensure the availability of these items, especially for vulnerable groups. I call on us not to support the urgency of this draft law. If there is an urgent need to address the issue of other norms, please share it in a separate bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U5	Juris Rancāns, a Member, has applied for the determination of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U6	Colleagues, very briefly, we see how rapidly the spread of infection is developing. We are also very well aware, and tens of times in mass media have been explained by Infectologists and Epidemiologists, how important it is to reduce the release from man through these masks and thus reduce the risk of being infected by all people. We also see that a very large proportion of society uses these masks very consciously. I would like to say separately to these people this common sense of responsibility. But we also see deliberate disproves and deliberate, show-fashioned mask users who do not listen to any arguments. And that's why we don't have to take time, because even if we accept it today... it will take some time to announce and enter into force, which will also solve the issues of mask accessibility. So that I call on my fellow Members to establish the urgency of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U7	Colleagues! We will vote for the urgency of this draft law. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - 6, for - 10. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U8	Thank you, colleagues. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U9	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U10	Good morning, dear colleagues! We know that the Ministry of Justice has made amendments to the law which provide that the police shall impose a warning or a fine of up to EUR 50 on the use of oral and nasal covers in public places. It is clear that the main challenge today is to stop the spread of Covid-19. As was done in spring, when Parliament supported the restrictive measures promoted by the government on the basis of the recommendations of epidemiologists and Infectologists. However, it must be understood that the situation is changing every day, and I hope that already now the restrictions will give us a positive result and that no new restrictions will be necessary in the next two weeks. If the rates decrease, then there will also be no basis for the society to impose penalties. Furthermore, I believe that the imposition of fines on the non-use of oral and nasal covers does not address epidemiological safety issues. In my opinion, this is, first of all, a matter of people's responsibility. Each of us should think not only about himself but also about others. The primary point, therefore, is, in my opinion, to emphasise warnings and to call on people to be responsible. At the same time, before deciding on penalties, I call on the government to honour its promises and to provide free masks for low-income and poor people, who also have 60 and 70 cents of very large money, to whom every penny matters. Such draft laws may lack the idea of how many people live in poverty in our country. Citizens lack money for their daily needs, including for the purchase of masks, and it is cynical to punish people for this. I call on the government to immediately bring the masks to the groups mentioned. As long as this has not been done, I do not intend to support amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection and I call on the Saeima to act in the same way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U11	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U12	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to start by saying that, in my opinion, it was a very serious mistake that the Saeima Cabinet of Ministers at the beginning of the summer was allowed to impose various restrictions on persons without any responsibility. I also called on the Saeima not to support these special powers at the time, but I remained in a minority. And here we see the result. Despite the fact that this situation could now... might really make the Cabinet of Ministers think that it is also necessary to assume some responsibility. Despite everything else, the Cabinet of Ministers continues to restrict the freedoms and rights of persons without compensating in any way for the effect of its decisions. We therefore now have the following result: The Cabinet of Ministers has issued such an urgent order to ensure an effectively poor quality of sales of masks made in China, in addition to the procurement announced for the provision of the poor and low-income persons by means of individual means of protection. Why do I say a low-quality Chinese mask? Because when we look at this issue a little bit (and of course also thank our journalists, who have examined this issue even more), we have come to the conclusion that certified medical masks, which are currently being imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers on mandatory parallel hygienic washing masks, are a very, very expensive event. And... If, for example, members of the Saeima could afford EUR 100 per month, then, of course, the poor and the poor cannot afford to spend. What they're doing, we've already found out with you. We also had a week to get to know people's views. They're using these masks several times... at best. In the worst case, they borrow these masks from other persons or search for masks such as waste tanks. Is it a lower health risk than not to use masks at all? The Ministry of Health did not answer this question, which I asked accordingly to the Commission. And now a little bit about poor quality masks. What, then, do you really want to impose on you, honourable colleagues, the obligation to carry people? If the country had access to certified medical masks for some savings and if these masks were provided to the poor, low-income, perhaps also to other groups of persons in need of special protection, then it is likely that these rules would be reasonable and clear to know... we know clearly that the government cares for people, for human health and really thinks how to limit the spread of the virus. In this situation, we can see what exactly... what real masks are now offered by the Saeima, Saeima Administration, for their employees. Once again, we are not talking about Members of the Saeima, because Members of the Saeima can afford to buy any mask... any or order, or search for medical certified masks, which, I repeat, is a very large deficit. The Saeima Administration has bought masks. I'll show you. I borrowed these two boxes here in the hall. One box... It has been written that it has been produced in Lithuania. The second - the same box in the same hall - is produced in China. Two completely identical boxes. We can see... So the Saeima, the Saeima Administration, has bought Chinese masks that... One of the parties is simply repacked in Lithuania to perhaps present a false certificate. Because if we, honourable colleagues, with you now ask the Saeima Administration about the mask... for this purchased mask test report, then the Saeima Administration will probably not be able to present this test report, because there will simply be no such report. What is the question? The question is... on the internal layer that ensures the certification of the mask. It's polypropylene that doesn't break. You have already seen, I think, several times in many videos of what the internal layer should be and what the internal layer of these Chinese masks should be. So the real layer, polypropylene, doesn't break. And it's a high-quality, filtering material that really protects against viruses. What you're putting at the moment wearing people on the face is the Chinese guillocheman - a broken, absolutely in any way unprotected paper that just creates a fake... as you already wrote on the SPPC website, which you deleted then... So false sense of security and healthy people... people don't have to wear these masks. So coming back to spring. In the spring, the government’s decision to wear the lids of the mouth and nose was reasonable because the government took care of people’s health and made it a recommended decision. Hence, anyone who used public transport was advised to use these covers to protect others and themselves. And what was available to humans was also used with care. They also used masks, scarves, and lashes that they had on their hands. We saw the rate of this disease fall in the summer. So we cannot conclude that the rates of disease may have been better in some way from the use of masks, so we have no information that, for example, the correlation with carrying masks is different or different. Because we see an example, such as Spain. In Spain, these masks were also to be carried on beaches, but the rates of disease are now very high. So we have information from the SCPC in spring that masks do not need to be used. They may even create a false sense of security. And now this information has been deleted without any research being presented, without any justification simply because someone has now figured out that its masks are necessary. Everything would be really good if the government thought a little too of its responsibility. Because imposing an obligation on a man... not a recommendation, but an obligation for a person to use a particular object, which we found out is of low quality and has not been taken care of by the government... By imposing an obligation on a person to carry this object, the government has no reason to think about its responsibilities at any time. In other words, it is your responsibility to protect people from this infection. And how could the government do this? The government could do this by protecting people from sources of infection. Because we know that the increase in infection was because the government did not ensure that people were properly controlled - those who came from abroad - from the red zone. So, without fulfilling its direct responsibilities to protect citizens from infection, the government is now inventing a new duty - to wear incomprehensible... incomprehensible quality and origin items on the face, partly perhaps also threatening your health, because we really don't know how these masks... whether these masks are really safe for use... In one cellar they were made... The government is now also obliged to carry these masks and pay the penalty if there is no mask. At the same time, the government lacks clarity as to when and how masks, quality masks, low-income and poor people will be provided. This reservation that we will now be punishing only Aldi Gobzem for the fact that he is wearing no mask is really funny. Because if you create such a garden rule, you cannot come up with a simple reservation in the Saeima debate that we will not punish mothers and forcules. That's not working! Because the Administrative Violations Act only sets out certain cases in which this penalty may be softened. If you really wanted to take care of people's health, of course, you would provide people with masks, you would ensure that these masks are, first of all, safe, certified, pay a few cents and are available absolutely free to all vulnerable groups. What you are doing at the moment, you have simply legally strengthened the mask shopping area and oblige people to buy, spend their money, your money still a little bit, poor quality, uncertified goods. And the one who's going to live at the expense of this apocalypse, let him have good health! I call on you not to support this draft law at first reading. And those of you who are talking about the various problems in this bill, I really call not only on you to talk, but also to put forward proposals and fight for these proposals at second reading if you really want to defend people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U13	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U14	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, What we've heard now... I think it could be said that some good Members are really still living in spring. And in a way, what's said is... It is easy to define that there is a certain degree of uncertainty about public health, as this requirement (including what previous speakers have mentioned) does not mean, first of all, that people have a face cover to live 24 hours a day. These are specific places where the face must be used and... So mouth and nose masks, covers. And accordingly, if there is a requirement to carry them, then it is also a requirement to lay down the responsibility for non-compliance with such rules. I will not go into the details of what we have a number of other demands that people perceive as understandable and long-established in society and comply with law. And here, however, I think it should be mentioned that during the Covid-19 pandemic there is a really misinformation pandemic, and therefore, from the very beginning, very briefly about the masks themselves. So masks, including fabric masks, reduce the risk of infection for themselves and others. Based on data and studies from around 200 countries, it is truly concluded that the increase in Covid-19 infection was four times lower when using masks. And there are a number of European countries that are in a much more unconvinced situation than at present in Latvia, where the use of masks is mandatory. If you're concerned about this--sanction after-- well, we're all very good... reasonable people with rational thinking... understand that the aim is not to punish, but to identify those who are light on this subject... Indeed, there is also a responsibility when such issues are ignored. Well, if the amount of the penalty is a matter for discussion, then I can mention that in Slovakia, the penalty for not carrying a mask in public places where there is a mandatory requirement is from EUR 1600. And I do not think that the Slovak Government has simply imposed this penalty because, you see, this option will now be available in the budget to generate some revenue. But when you go back to the masks, different tissue masks also reduce the ability of the virus to infect, which is based on studies by the World Health Organization. Moreover, the use of a mask reduces the severity of Covid-19 infection, even if a person is already ill, because the amount of virus that is in the body is reduced. In reality, Covid-19 is likely to be infected in public and service areas, especially if the mask is not used as a mutual protection remedy. And Covid-19 is spreading because not everyone takes this situation seriously enough, especially those who have become epidemiologists and microbiologists with some videos on social networks one evening. Yes, we also know that people die every day in car accidents, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, but ignoring this virus will not help, because we cannot afford to continue in the same spirit. And it doesn't require much - to distance, to wear a mask in public spaces, to wash your hands. The use of masks is a slight inconvenience compared to the suffering that Covid-19 can cause. We have overcome the start-up phase of the pandemic due to a number of factors, from which public discipline must be highlighted in particular in difficult circumstances and our ability to learn from the experience of other countries. It would be unforgivable not to do so now. Towing is not a restriction or punishment, it is a targeted measure to reduce the spread of the virus, so as not to introduce additional restrictions such as general quarantine, as the introduction of new restrictions is less relevant than the existing ones. We wear masks to avoid infecting others, and we have to wear masks when there is a large virus spread and we are close to each other. Unfortunately, this is the situation in Latvia at the moment. I am not in favour of penalties, and no penalties were imposed in the beginning, but we can now see in public spaces that there is a group of people, a part of the public that does not believe that the rules apply to them as well, and that there is no demonstration of masks. Radical individualism is not a matter of self-risk, and in the present circumstances public health prevails. It is clear that it is a long time everywhere, but people still choose to put people at risk. But at the moment I am calling for support to be given to the fact that such a move - not to wear out the masks - should, however, be set for a paid service. Not punishment after punishment, but as a preventive mechanism that would put social and legal pressure on the health and safety of their fellow human beings, and they will take care of ours. At the same time, we also need to find the means, as the previous speakers said, to give the disadvantaged people of Latvia the opportunity to receive masks for free. I think that consideration should also be given to imposing price caps on masks in retail trade for the duration of the pandemic - particularly for hygienic facial masks - because these are currently essential goods. And in conclusion. Accordingly, I think it is... if there are requirements not only for individuals but also for certain economic operators, I think it is also necessary to lay down the responsibilities of economic operators who do not comply with the requirements in their trading premises. It is a matter of shared responsibility for society as a whole - not just for an individual, but also for another. And that correlates, among other things, that if such a society does not have a common attitude, its consequences, which may arise not only in terms of health but also in economic terms, may be more severe than compliance with these existing requirements now and today. I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U15	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U16	Hello, dear colleagues! Today, we are looking at amendments to the draft law, which have always been supported by the SACKA from March onwards, because we know that we need to fight, we need to fight very quickly in order to prevent all the dangers that are associated with the spread of the virus. But now, as you propose, punish those people who don't wear masks, who were also reported by previous Members that it is not so easy to buy that mask... And in our Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, the Ministry of Welfare also gave us a message about how much... For example, the price of respiratory equipment in Latvia is between two euros and 8.9 euros, the average price of medical mask - between 0.44 euros and 0.90 euros, the average price of hygienic facial mask - between 0.18 euros and 0.90 euros. At the same time, however, the welfare minister also reported that 170 pallets with masks were standing with them and waiting for their own (intelligible). ... and has been notified to all departments, municipalities that are eligible. But every time I watch television news every day, where we see known ministers, where I believe it is a political ad, that everyone reads from paper the same information that one person can simply express. But it must have paid for advertising, and she's been going for seven months. And there's no information that any municipality or applicant can get its masks free of charge. I'm sorry. As well as here in Riga, I never saw by those eight months from March that there are some volunteers who share their masks in stations, car stations and public transport. Maybe yes, but now we don't see on TV because we need to look for them or do a little shit. And since the Minister for Welfare declared that those 170 pallets in the warehouse were masks that they would be enough by the end of the year... And when it comes to the lowly, it is as if 217,000 masks are needed if we can provide for each poor one in two masks. But you also heard that their mask can be pulled at best one day, go to work and in the evening, and you need to throw it out, not to wash her or something else. Saturday I visited Durban Manor, met one chemist. He said: “I don’t use that mask, I’m a chemist for speciality, and I understand something in the field that they don’t help too.” And the same specialists know that the mask is good at the time if you're sick. But I call you, for example, not to come to work if you are sick. I saw yesterday in the Saeima, sitting in the Hall, one sick was also, and the dogs were running out of the nose. So please do not visit the Saeima building and other workplaces if you are ill. Therefore, I also invite you to declare the state of emergency in Latvia, so that the Cabinet of Ministers will take a decision. If not, then perhaps the Saeima will make a decision to stop their Covid-19 spread. Because it's been quite dangerous. Every day, the virus spreads more and more. We did it correctly in March, when we declared an emergency from 14 March, even if we had to do it from 1 March, then our results could still be much better. So, please think. Let's be smart! As the State Revenue Service announced today morning by radio that we have enough money, because Latvian citizens paid taxes... It is very good that there is money to ensure the cost of cut-off benefits. Maybe we are declaring the emergency situation in Latvia and we start paying out benefits. But then we will be safe and we are quickly completing this process, and let's wait for Christmas at the fir together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U17	Thank you, Member Clementyev. I have to say, for the sake of the truth, that here in the Saeima's Chamber, I do not see anyone having health problems from my colleagues who took part in yesterday's sitting. That's true, colleagues. Please let us talk about what we really see and about the things that can be proved. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U18	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Today, yes, on the masks, I can only join those of my colleagues who have mentioned that these masks, if we impose such penalties, which will be a very large amount of money for a large part of our society, which they can hardly afford to pay, must also be imposed such penalties... think about the other side and give these people opportunities at these masks at all... Get them. And here's a big, unmade job for us. And if we look at how the government has managed to buy masks at all, then the situation is rather devastating. If we look at these millions spent on the pieces of gauze by nature, because these tests have been different, many of these masks have not been tested at all, but now those who have - we see also the analyses made by journalists - are seeing the situation really that we have bought more than millions of gauzes. And what example do we set? Well, for society as a whole, like a government. And even more so, after all this here in the government, no one really took responsibility for it in nature... Everyone pretends it's very normal. In my view, and also in the eyes of our colleagues, if we impose such penalties, we must also have the absolute certainty that the masks are available to people and, for example, when travelling in public transport, if a person does not have the opportunity of himself (a senior or disadvantaged person, perhaps some travel facilitations or something else), then they must be able to access the mask. And I don't think about getting into the pharmacy and buying a mask or anything else. Well, there should be an opportunity, and there are a whole range of producers who are currently in Latvia... Maybe... Maybe those masks aren't supposed to be there with all these super-indicators, but these masks are definitely one that protects other people from possible... Well, if it's all right, it's like it's all right. And these masks are significantly cheaper, both in cost terms. But the rule of law... And that's what this law is about, and... Law on the Management of Infections... Covid-19... Here, too, we have to look at the very first person we have with the Prime Minister. We have addressed the Prime Minister with a request, because the implementation of these rules is also directly applicable to the Prime Minister and his Head of Government. And here, when this law comes into force, transitional provisions... means clearly that at least every three months the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers, shall report to the Saeima on the threat of epidemiological security in relation to the spread of Covid-19. So far, we have received a letter from the Minister for Health, which essentially deals with the restrictions on which we do not need reports. We can read these restrictions ourselves, but where such a fundamental analysis has not been carried out at all. And I think that this information would not only be useful for the STECF but also, I think, for all the other political groups and all the other Members: balanced information about the current situation, the impact on the economy, and if this law on the management of the spread of infection mentions such a point of the transitional provisions, then it must also be fulfilled. And that's exactly the same as for masks. If the masks are to be pulled, then it will be predicted here that if they don't wear, there will be a fine, then maybe for the articles - the Cabinet of Ministers, every minister, a fine of 100 euros if these ministers... the norms proposed by this Law. This situation, when it does not comply with the law, applies not only to society as a whole, but also to ministers themselves. That is why I would urge them to do so. And another question that the Union of Greens/farmers will raise today in this law. We want more powers, however, for municipalities in the field of education, and we would call for a hearing... The Union of Municipalities also expressed this position during the government sitting this week and, in our view, it should also be strengthened in this law. There was also a discussion in the government, which was also an opportunity to follow... was not clear, there were also ministers who supported this position, and, in our view, it is clear... of course you have to listen to the experts, but I would call on the Commission to hold this discussion, and we will put forward such a proposal to say that... more responsibility for the activities of municipal schools, however, would rest with the municipalities themselves, so that each particular territory... of course also relates to the second issue, which is the availability of information. What is happening in the municipality with several municipal leaders, including those where this epidemic is now spreading quite rapidly. I have contacted, spoken, that information is at the hands of the real doers who really have a lot of instruments in a particular area, which can both limit and help to arrive very late, and a data protection regulation is being called up all the time. Local government managers still have no information about it... it comes very late for whether these morbidity rates in a given area... so that they can make their own decisions proactively. All this happens when there are already major problems, and then they learn about it, and then these restrictions are so much greater. That is why I would call on the Saeima, the government to trust more local governments, to involve them more, because local government leaders also want and are prepared to do everything to combat this pandemic. So, thank you, colleagues, and for the second reading we will make proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U19	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U20	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Here, I think there are a few questions. Question number one - does the government... the legislator is entitled to request the carrying of masks? Well, here, I think the answer is clear. The emergency requires emergency action. If we... If there is really enough evidence that the masks are helping, it can help to reduce the likelihood of the spread of infection, and there is such evidence, then the government is entitled to do so. Question number two. Is it a punishment or a penalty for a violation of the law? Well, I will remind all my colleagues here, including from the opposition, that one year ago we called on the citizens to punish both this Saeima and the government for not complying with their own laws, specifically through the dismissal of the Saeima. Then it is clear that non-compliance with the law, non-compliance, is punishable. If we somehow abandon this principle, where will it lead us? I will remind you that a wise person said: “When I came to a country where I was not, I didn’t ask people whether the laws were bad or good in that country. I'm just asking whether those laws have been complied with." Here too, colleagues, if we adopt laws, we must insist that those laws are respected. But beyond the masks, colleagues. So, as I said, it is clear that all scientific evidence shows that the mask itself - medical or skin mask - will not, of course, protect completely one hundred percent of the infection, but at the same time there is also scientific evidence that massive use of masks can reduce the probability, this risk that the infection will spread. But at the same time, colleagues, you don't have to think this is... That's one-way street. The same World Health Organisation, if you read more carefully what has been said on that website, warns that the use of masks could also have the opposite effect. First of all, because it can create a false sense of security, which will cause people to lose sight of the distance of two meters and so forth. But secondly, also because if its masks are not changed regularly... and, in the case of medical masks, we are talking about changing them every two to three hours, about leather masks - that they should be washed regularly, now about... At least every day... if its masks are not changed, if the moisture that will appear will have the opposite effect, because it will create an environment in which the same bacteria will... the infection will have a very favourable environment to multiply if. And then that effect on a person could be exactly the opposite, namely that a mask could then also become a threat to human health. So let us ask, colleagues, if we know how people we demand to wear masks... Are these people regularly changing or washing their masks? And can it be detected by some kind of test, for example, if a policeman does? I think it is quite clear that the answer is no to both questions. We can only rely here on people's responsibility and, more importantly, colleagues, that people are capable, objectively capable, of complying with the requirements of the law. Go on, colleagues. We're... Unfortunately, our country is different from several other countries, almost perhaps all European countries, with the fact that we are one of the poorest countries in the European Union. It is also the case with huge inequalities, with a very high proportion of the population at risk of poverty. So we just... Yesterday we saw a budget where the government announced with such a comparative pump that the so-called GMI - the minimum social benefit - would now be raised to 109 euros. Well, colleagues, let's ask a question... Then, for them, 109 euros... That's enough to pay about two penalties for not carrying their masks. So how many masks can a man - is it a pensioner, or a poor person to whom the state now says that with 109 euros per month you have enough, how many masks he or she can buy for this money? And I say right away, colleagues, that... If someone here tries to answer that there will be enough skin mask, then I will call my colleagues to those who... who like to refer to the World Health Organization... I call on you to read more carefully what is said there. And what's said there is that you're... If you are over 60 years of age, you do not really need a skin mask, then you should use a medical mask. I doubt, by the way, that the government called on the seniors (people above 60) to use directly medical masks. If the government called on people, including those in the age group above 60, to use leather masks or lashes, or who are there, then colleagues, it comes to the conclusion that this is contrary to the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. So if we come to the fact that people over the age of 60 need to use medical masks that need to be changed regularly after about three hours of use, then the question is how many of these masks pensioners, the elderly, and not just them, including the poor, including the families of many children, children... How many such medical masks can they afford? Because, once again, if they are unable, for objective reasons, because of their material situation, to afford to change their medical masks regularly, they will use one mask all the time to simply comply with the law and avoid this 50 euros penalty. And with this (according to the information and recommendations of the same World Health Organization) they will pose a health threat to themselves, that is, increasing, rather than reducing the risk of infection with Covid-19. I'm adjusted by colleagues, fabric masks! Thank you very much. Of all of us, we have a very simple conclusion, I think, colleagues - all this is to be supported (sanity and so on) on the condition that the state, the government... and, I think that, at least for the country, those resources, taking into account them would borrow two billion euros and so on, are sufficient... provide, first of all, pensioners, poor people, families of many children, students with masks in sufficient and reasonable quantities. This, in my view, is therefore an absolutely imperative requirement for this draft law, and I believe that it is the responsibility of the committee responsible for the second reading to ensure that such a requirement is integrated with the government, and the government to ensure that it has money to buy the right masks, that is to say, those that really meet the requirements of the same World Health Organisation, not some kind of counterfeiting from Lithuania or China, or where it might be. And only under such a condition, I believe we can support this for the second reading. At the moment, at least, I and my colleagues: we are ready to support the advance this time in the first reading of this bill, but our support for the second reading will depend on whether what I say is... provision of masks for the poor... or that and resources for that... whether it will be incorporated, because otherwise, colleagues, the government and we will only have the opposite effect with this draft law. We're gonna put people's lives... we will put them at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U21	Thank you. Colleagues! With regard to what Member Viktoras Valaiņa said, I have a clarification, adding that on 7 October this year, the Saeima Presidium report, the government report, in relation to the management of Covid-19 infection, has been handed over to two responsible commissions. The report has therefore been received by Parliament and forwarded by the Bureau to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption and the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, as well as to all political groups and non-attached Members. So, on 7 October, this report was passed on to Members, to the political groups and to the commissions responsible. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U22	Dear Saeima! It is clear that we will resolve this issue at second reading in relation to the wider spread of facial masks. It is clear that, if we lay down responsibility for not using facial masks, then it must also be possible for these masks to be available to vulnerable groups. At the same time, I would like to thank those businessmen who are already offering to their shop visitors facial masks free of charge on their own initiative. And I think this would be a positive practice that should be spread on a much broader scale. If economic operators have the opportunity to continue working in this situation and make profits, then they can afford to buy bags in value, so to speak... Well, this surgical face mask... is its price about 10 cents, a little more if its masks are purchased in most... to provide this to their shop visitors. I think that on the part of the government, too, we should think about the title of a responsible businessman in this difficult situation. At the same time, we must understand that the use of masks will not solve all the problems. The virus is actually spreading faster than we can make decisions right now. In our region, the virus is spreading much faster than it was in the spring month... in the spring months. Today almost every day Russia, Poland, Lithuania and Ukraine are showing new anti-records of disease. Estonia and Belarus also suffer from very high levels of disease. And, most likely, the anti-records can be reached in these countries in the coming days as well. Given that our citizens are actively migratory between these countries through land transport, others are coming to Latvia again, then if we fail to close these migration gates, just as in the spring months, where the disease had already spread widely, but in the name of tourism all this was kept open, and tourists from Latvia and other countries continued to travel to this country despite the fact that the disease had already reached a high level - then we will have to stop the spread of this virus with only facial masks and various restrictions on gathering that have already entered into force. It is also a legitimate question whether, indeed, at this time of the virus pandemic, we need to continue to import migrant workers from various Asian countries who deliver food to their homes. Can we really not cope with our own resources, with our own people? We have to admit that we... We have problems controlling those aliens and our own countrymen who return from abroad, whether they respect the quarantine, self-isolation or still violate it, especially if they have arrived on land. Therefore, I think the government will have to decide as soon as possible on measures to limit international migration, because only then has great added value for the various domestic restrictions if we do not have more cases of imports from abroad. I call on my colleagues to support this law at first reading. At second reading, we will make a variety of improvements together, but we will certainly have to move forward as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U23	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U24	Hello, colleagues! Hello, community! Good afternoon, Aunts of Mirdza! I have a Chinese mask in my hands. A mask bought at a price that is obviously “delfi” has been tested and shows no quality. I cut this mask right now, Mirdza aunts. I cut it to show you, who do not use social networks, one small piece. Those who use social networks have already seen. You see, this mask consists of three parts, and the middle is a piece of paper, like toilet paper. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that I do not dispute that Latvian society is divided into two parts. There are those who believe in a piece of rags, and there are those who believe in survival can if there is good immunity and if there is a healthcare system that is able to respond. Our healthcare system has actually made a helpless political decision when deciding on the mandatory use of masks, which has nothing to do with medicine. I'll explain... Let me explain. First of all, I said yesterday in my Saeima speech that, in a situation where we have a health care system close to collapse at 170 hospital beds, no masks will be helpful. People who believe that the masks will save their lives have not looked at statistics, have not read official statements from the Ministry of Health, and have not looked at other countries. I will give examples. In Lithuania masks were mandatory from summer. Has something changed there? Is there a better situation? No, no! There is a rapid increase in the number of infected people. Second example: Sweden. No mask, no distance. People are moving freely. Whoever wants - consumes who doesn't want - don't use. Statistics show that the number of deaths has declined sharply in this time. And then I have the question - why all the political decisions taken by Latvia are to run something after - just like in Europe. Why don't we look at what's on the spot? By the way, Uga Dumpis said in spring that healthy people do not need to use masks! The Ministry of Health said the same in its official social account. For such a piece of paper, which is like toilet paper, will not save human life. In this context, I want to tell four stories. The story is number one. Restaurant. Welcome. The guest has a fine fabric mask. This is it. Fine fabric mask. Some Members also have. So when someone next to you blows the smoke of cigarettes, you feel it? Well, let's talk scientificly first. The virus is much smaller than cigarette smoke. Number one. Number two. So when this guest puts a mask... See, it's hard for me, too... then he put it to the nose, so that the glasses don't light up, then he takes your dirty plates with his hands... Tell me what he protects? Scientific and clinical. The story is numbered two. I meet my business partner at a notary. Everyone was sick at home. For children, the temperature, spouse has come from abroad, is in self-insulation because of suspicion of Covid-19. She's in a mask of fabric that is handmade in public places. The story is numbered three. I met a postman. I meet a postman, and she walks from spring into this Chinese blue. She's assigned one... is dirty. She walks every day in the same mask from morning to night. All right. It's okay. I gave her a new package. And the story number four. I meet a pensioner at the shop because she has fallen into her mask, she cannot afford to buy. Of course, I give her a little bit of money so she can buy a mask and go to the store. But if you want to save your omite, remember how many weeks you pour petrol into your petrol tank compared to how much this omite spends a month on Greeks or other cheaper foods. And the rescue of the omite - maybe you have to start with it. These masks, which are a political helpless step from the government, are for the sake of concealing effectively criminal, expensive purchases of low-quality masks during an emergency, in principle at the expense of other people's accidents. Such a step is to hide the fact that all summer is discoted and nothing has been done to make us have more beds, more sanitation, more nurses and more doctors. This is actually just to say that we did something. As is well known, this mask, which is almost in the middle of the toilet paper, should at best be used for two hours. This does not protect from anything - this, China. But those who are qualitative, surgical, and who, by the way, in Dubai costs 20 times less than in any of our stores, in Germany costs twice as much as in any of our stores - these are what you now want to impose. You want to impose such stylized oral protectors. I have a question: why don't any doctors in any surgery, no hospital use stylised things like those - with cruises, with brands? Because they probably don't protect anything. You want to impose on the pensioner... I understand you'd be happy to condemn me, but a pensioner who can't afford to buy Greeks... make every day buy 20 times more expensive masks than in Dubai. This is disproportionate. In a normal world, there is, in fact, freedom of choice. And Sweden, which is the country of Scandinavia (I will remind you that we are heading towards the country of Scandinavia) is a country in which people have a free choice. If they believe in a piece of rag, they can use it. And I also say, if you believe in the lupata, use it. But if you believe in immunity, if you believe in a healthy lifestyle and that government should actually work for us to have care... a health care system that is able to serve us... Our government should work to ensure that we are healthy, not that we have a political face, a false, Mrs Mūrniece, in Latvian translation, false measures to save our health care system. Our health care system must be rescued with a financial contribution, with an investment, not 2.4 percent of the bombs in the Pound of Adazi... And that's what I said yesterday... but by the wages of the sanitary, the nurses, and all the rest. The mask is in fact a question that doctors also think about. There are doctors who believe that this is a panacea. And there's doctors who think it's only a tradition. Dr. Peteris Apinis has also spoken to the public, he is almost the only brave man who speaks on this subject. But as an active member of society, I also have other doctors. My family friends are doctors. And, of course, I also have my treating doctor, my family doctor, as a person who takes care of my health. And I'll tell you one. None of them ever said... Neither my family's doctors, nor my doctors, have ever said, "Bring the mask, it will save you!" They have said, “Go in fresh air, sports, less drink, less sweets, be active, move!” On the day when my closest friends doctors and my treating doctor will say, “It is healthy to wear a mask, and it will save you!” I'll be the first one to do that. This is an imaginary and trust relationship, because if we talk about clinical evidence or statistical evidence, it is very interesting that most of the so-called sick people, more than 70 percent, say they have worn masks, disinfected hands and everything else. And what did they get? Didn't do it? Or does it prove that it's not a means... that the tool is completely different: the tool is the right organisation in educational institutions, not to turn children into one class all day long (it is completely absurd!) that the right organization is that we know that we will have a place in the hospital, not fear that now just people will get sick. In Latvia, among other things, many people die of the diseases to be treated only because our health care system has been lowered to the clan. I understand that there are people who believe in television, their god is television. But start thinking with common sense, beloved viewers, beloved society! Start watching that you will now be punished! You do not have to buy food or pay for utilities and you will have to buy masks. By the way, it is harmful to use single use masks for longer than the prescribed time. And it shouldn't be thrown out of the trash, it should be just... should be disposed of. And that's all the power of our government to punish people. One more thing. If we're looking at medical manipulations, at any... and it should also be known to our Saeima doctors, only with the consent of a person you may test, only with the consent of a person you may perform any manipulation or impose any action, use any medication, perform any medical action. And if a person does not agree, you cannot force it. Because there's no totalitarian regime here. In Soviet times, they were psyched by those who disagreed or sent to Siberia. Or other totalitarian regimes did even more serious medical experiments, but in a free society it is a human choice. And, in particular, to punish people living in poverty in Latvia - that is shame. It's totalitarianism. Because it's political helplessness. We're not gonna be saved by a piece of rag. We will be saved by the healthcare system in which we invest. But we don't do it because we had to drive the whole summer for Viņķelis. Nothing was done. And that's why this is like a panacey now. That's the only reason, dear people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U25	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U26	Good morning, honourable Mrs. Mourniece! Colleagues! And also the people who listen! First of all, I have indeed already heard very, very many false Members in the debate at the moment. I want really medical and also as a doctor of medical science who has defended the dissertation very recently, two years ago... and yet statistical things are the same in all medicine, and I really remember... to decipher really a few myths. Let's start with the number one. Let's start by seeing the masks see to the detriment. Then I'll tell you the first thing. About seven years ago, when my patient, Zane, was supposed to do pretty much time... quite an urgent lung transplantation, either time was still, but had to carry out this lung - lung if! - transplantation in Vienna, because unfortunately there were no opportunities elsewhere, I managed to agree that we could really do it in Vienna. University of Vienna and what has been the world's lung surgery... President-in-Office, Professor Walter Klepetko said we can, but you have at least half a year to study with us both before and after lung transplantation and management, immunosuppressive therapy. And I did, of course. And I'll say that, for example, not for example, but... after lung transplantation, which is an immunosuppressive condition, for all patients years of age! - no matter where they go... or they're in a hospital... they must carry a mask, they must have a mask day and night, otherwise they are threatening themselves. In Vienna, lung transplantation began in 1989, just the night the Berlin Wall fell. Professor Walter Klepetko carried out the first lung transplantation there. And from that time on, a huge amount of experience and huge research have really accumulated. And we clearly analyse these studies from other countries as well... from Toronto Canada, where there is also an equally large lung transplantation center in the world... we see that masks do not harm these patients at home as well... after they wear, even in contact with their household. My patient, too, wears a mask constantly. So that this myth that mask can harm... Imagine these patients are even immunosuppressed, they must take several immunosuppressive agents, plus other corticosteroids, and no superinfection, or bacterial infection, viral infection of the mask per se develop, believe me, cannot. That was my first-- My message. The second is... I really heard... I will also quote a few sentences. You see, there's no... Dear Member... Jūlija Stepanenko also said that in the absence of research, correlations, the use of such a word, yes, correlation with the use of masks, was not really known whether it helped or not. Then I'll just say, in three sentences, what the scientific order is... everywhere, anywhere - cardiology, infection, everywhere... So there are several of these levels that we look at - there's a correlation or not. The simplest level of evidence is animal research, then, of course, case studies come, then cohort studies come, then randomised clinical studies come, then systematic reviews come, and then meta-analyses come, if, random research meta-analyses, which regularly publish the world's most influential magazines in medicine. We have to look like this... such an impact factor. And I'll tell you: every day I'm reading these high-impact, impact, factor magazines in medicine, and one of them the world's most well-known is the magazine... is a magazine, I will actually say what it is called, because it is not usually translated, so “The Lancet” if. And there we clearly see that meta-analysis is published with the highest level of evidence, which proves that yes, to... is not a mask panacea, no one says that there is, but makes it clear and clear that the mask significantly restricts the spread of the virus in society. And indeed, the most really exactly in such a way that if a person is sick, he does not spread the virus further. And that too... Just what Mr. Cole said, a little bit even... not only do you not spread that virus in the community to other people, but you also protect yourself, because the load of the virus, if a person wears a mask, the number of viruses we take is really smaller, and in fact, it's easier for these patients. This has indeed also been proven. What the Member has also said is that you can see that if you are already ill to sit at home. That's right. I have to sit at home. But let us also remember that there are the first two or three days when a person is infectious, there are no symptoms yet, and so its masks are truly desirable, recommended, and also compulsory. Of course, not forgetting that this is not a panacea and that all other conditions must also be met. And in total. Statistically, the world has now been proven by meta-analyses, not by case-control studies or simply, as one man or two people say, but statistically proven by a specific p value that masks help. And the other, believe me, the masks don't hurt. The fact that some doctors... The fact that people do not believe in science, yes, is unfortunately also common among doctors. This is unfortunately the case. We have several dissertations where we even see that, yes, we... that many people in the medical environment also do not believe in science. Thank you, it was my opinion as a scientist on this and, of course, I am calling for support for this draft law at first reading. And what Mr Dombrava also said: then, by second reading, those things will be repaired, even for people who cannot buy masks... to help them. And I'll add one thing, for example, by entering a hospital for an outpatient consultation or for an investigation if that person's mask is forgotten, every one is expected by the receptionist and the mask is served, and it's not like someone would stay without advice if he really forgot the mask. So too, public authorities come far from it. Thank you. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U27	Thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U28	Colleagues! I'll keep it. As a fairly active Member, I am addressed by various parts of society, including medical students. And it is very interesting that Latvian state universities, where they study medicine, do not even have a course related to the Covid-19, and even there among teachers, think about how it is right, how it is wrong, whether it is necessary or not to use masks, and how it should be done by new future doctors. And I think it shows quite a lot about this thing called Covid-19. Just like when we... as the program “Time”, Mrs. Mūrniece, from the Russian language “Vremja”... We are talking that we will now be saved by the masks, but we are not telling the public what we have to do, those who have been sick to this day - to sit at home? And it's the only treatment? What exactly should Covid-19 do for a positive person? What are the medical methods to be followed? This is not what we are talking about, and it raises a great many questions. And in a situation where there are people with asthma, who have other health problems and who have been advised by a doctor, for example, who is not talking about masks, you will punish them by decision of the local police, so that they do not follow the recommendations of their doctor? Just because it is your political step. Why all decisions, absolutely all decisions related to the Covid-19, do you share? Well, as you do somewhere, I don't know, in France, or anywhere, you share from there. On what scientific, clinical basis? Why are you not talking about what is happening in Sweden? Never! Never! At the same time, you say that you want to live as in Scandinavian countries. For me, people, Latvians who have been forced to leave Latvia and who live in Sweden, Finland and Norway are sending a video about how people live there. And they live in a free choice. Those who believe can use masks safely. And those who think they shouldn't - they don't. And most societies don't use masks. Go to the gym. I'll remind you of another interesting story about that modern mask of clothes. Event in the gym. A man climbs up on a trainer who is a rowing trainer, takes off his mask and trains himself. And at the moment he's training, he's breathing, he's smiling, he's drinking and spreading the whole virus if. Then he has finished training and put that mask on and protect the omite. I'm just talking about common sense. The common sense is that not the lupata saves human life. And there's no clinical and scientific evidence that when you use anything on your face... And also that piece of rag of Karina, our premiere, has it been proven to be better than a scarf? What is the difference between a scarlet and a piece of Mr. Karin's rag? With that rubber? And it protects? I call on the public simply to look from the point of view of common reason. Watch... not just that we have to copy and imitate something, but we have to invest in health care if we want to save people. What is a priority? Instead of punishing the pensioners who will use it, and I assure you that she will use this one-time mask - one mask - all the time because she cannot afford to... In England, by the way, you share that mask with people for free. Start for free then share them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U29	Dear colleagues, Members Ples, Voika, Stein, Bauman and Bondar ask for the Saeima to continue its sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Please open the procedure section. We must vote on this. We can vote. Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please, let's vote! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. We're continuing the sitting all the time. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U30	Dear colleagues, Well, I'm... However, I call on you not to deal with things like that, when you get a doctor's degree, who knows what p-values and so on. I think it is absolutely normal that there are different views on what is right, what should be right in this situation. Some believe that this is - the masks will all be saved, others believe that the so-called 'herd immunity', mass immunity should be promoted, and that, despite the fact that it will certainly have a price and its price will be measured in life - that it is a better way in the long term. But what is important, colleagues, is that, given the diversity of all their different opinions, we still agree on what our actions are and which scientific opinion or organisation we trust. And if we say that we trust the World Health Organization, in which I have no doubt that many people with doctoral degrees are working, then we also need to really read them carefully and stick to the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. And here, colleagues, it is very important to understand that the World Health Organization does not consider masks to be something like that. That's one. Two-- that it indicates that the use of masks may also have quite serious side effects. And those who do not believe can get acquainted with the details... their documents on page four... on what is indicated on the use of masks. There are at least eight points (I count) here, which are the cases where masking might be... lead to risks and threats to human health. And that must be understood. And, above all, my fellow Members, in our situation - the fact that the mask is paying money, we are one of the poorest countries in the European Union, we have a large part of society, as a minimum for pensioners, I believe that the poor must also be added, including many children's families and schoolchildren, who are spending the masks... at least to use it - in line with the World Health Organisation - cannot afford. Hence, they are likely to use the mask formally in view of the penalties that we offer. And using formal masks according to the same WHO will pose risks to their health. That, colleagues, I think, is the most important thing to do to us... what we should all understand today and what we should agree on. Whether or not we have a doctorate, whether we know anything or not about how clinical studies are conducted, or what are p-values and so on. That is why I, my fellow Members, really call for this time not to save on people, and for the second reading, I insist, indeed the coalition's responsibility to provide masks for all those people who cannot afford their masks for objective reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U31	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U32	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! Highly honored fellow Members! Yes, I also wanted to say something when I listen to this debate on this draft law. First of all, the draft law itself. I think, however, that further progress and adoption of the draft law at final reading would also be very important. In particular, when it comes to the frequency and necessity of masking, however, I think that the draft law provides for some responsibility to encourage and promote more frequent use of masks in society as regards the non-use of masks (facial cover and nasal cover). And here it has to be said that experts, as we also hear and read, emphasize that yes, the use of masks is not a panacea in itself, and therefore we in Latvia do not only introduce masks - the only remedy. Therefore, we also believe that respecting distance is extremely important and even more important than masks. However, the effectiveness of masking depends on... and I stress: "efficiency"... directly to public health and to the spread of infection in society... Depending on how many members of society use these face and nose protection masks. And here's our collective and joint responsibility not only for our health but for the health of society as a whole. And here I would like to distinguish between these two things. Yes, on the one hand, we cannot force a man to wash his hands, to disinfect his surface, but in such a case he is most vulnerable to his own personal hygiene, and that is the responsibility of every person first of all to his own health. But when it comes to the use of masks in public transport, in places that are public, where there are many other people, the use of masks is not just a story of responsibility for your health, but it is also a story of responsibility for the health of others. And, of course, if you don't wash this reusable mask, you still put a dirty mask, you're likely to risk your health to some extent, but if you don't put the mask at all and if you're an infected or an infectious distributor, you're putting the rest at serious risk. So it's... It should be understood and distinguished that we are talking here about two things: public health, which is nevertheless a priority, and personal health, which we can also protect when we act responsibly (by disinfection of hands, hygiene and using face protection masks). Second. About the availability of this mask. The availability of masks is increasing, i.e., indeed, yes, in stores these masks, face protection masks are also available. Indeed it can be said that they are still expensive, but I... Just yesterday, my colleague bought here in Latvia, Jelgava, manufactured medical face protection masks, the price of which, on a single mask, is less than 12 cents. And these are high-quality medical trilayer masks. The fact that prices are actually decreasing as this supply grows. In addition, I'm looking at these masks... the company points out that he exports them to many European countries. Therefore, my call, also with regard to the availability of these masks - however, it would be very careful for local authorities to consider whether these masks are possible for truly less prosperous people... perhaps also in public transport, because they are no longer so huge and so large amounts that we are talking about. Next, what I'd like to say about this... on this amazing pseudo expertise that comes from our few... two, I would like to say to the parliamentary fellow Members. Well, it's a pity that we didn't know in the spring that you're such amazing experts and know, simply by cutting or making a mask, determining whether it's certified or not, what material is inside and what is not in there... It's amazing, Mr. Gobzem! You filmed it very beautifully and showed it in the Facebook yesterday, and today you show it all from the Saeima Tribe. Well, that's a wonderful performance, but I'd say it's amazing! And that's what it really is, because a man knows less, because he thinks he knows everything perfectly. It's for once! And when it comes to... Indeed, speaking and referring to the fact that Mr. Gobzem is talking about some paper inside a mask, in a three-layer mask... By the way, the cellulose that forms the base of the paper is one of the most fantastic filters for both bacterial and viral protection. It is much better than woven fabric. That's what the experts looking at these things say. Therefore, in my opinion, this kind of pseudo-experience, the dissemination of false news, which can have an impact on public health in general, would be a criminal act. I believe that, in fact, we should be discussing whether, in such circumstances, the laws and regulations should not be changed and whether people who knowingly disseminate false information which may have an impact on public health and human safety and on human life in general... whether such conduct should not be punishable. In addition, we see that, in these cases, this action is closely linked to raising our political capital at the expense of people who are poorly informed and easily believe in various false or false news. Colleagues, I would call for real support for this draft law. I think that this could promote the responsibility of all of us and the responsibility of society as a whole towards this situation and also against the use of responsible face and nose guards, and more frequent use of face and nose guards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U33	Thank you. The name to Member Richard Cole for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U34	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Yes, I think that here, in the conditions of the infodemic, also what has been said from the tribunal today, I think should be rebutted. So all the aunts of Mirdze... Dzdra aunts, I understand, are more numerically in Latvia than Mirdza, but it's not a story about it. These statements, referring to the experience of one country or another... the information provided is absolutely misleading. Glory Sweden, where one Member said, mortality... mortality rates fall directly from the Covid-19, the economy flourishes. Official information and data is that in Sweden, the mortality rate from Covid-19 per 100 thousand inhabitants is 58.4 percent, which means... not interest, but people... This means that, as a result, Sweden is the 12th place in the world. There, of course, may not be Andorra and San Marino. Such allegations are absolutely misleading and disinformation about the reality. As regards economic strength and economic prosperity in Sweden, the economy has fallen by 8.9 percent in recent months. I would even say that such a free fall has happened. And finally. It has to be said that there are only two countries in the world - the US and Sweden - that have failed by limiting the prevalence of Covid-19. It is precisely for this reason - without requirements - that restrictions on this spread. And as a result, the rate of progression with the spread of infection appears in the increasing rates of morbidity, mortality rates, and in Sweden only since the beginning of October, with an average of 250-300 infections, then today 29 October, every day is 1500-1600. And I think that all the aunts of Mirdza (and Dzdra's aunts, including) should simply take these facts into account. And I thought... I call on the Aunts of Dzidra and the Aunts of Mirdza to listen to what Member Andris Skride said, which is based on studies, facts and evidence based on situational statements, and, as the previous speaker said, not to fall into these networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U35	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U36	Good afternoon, Madam President, colleagues. Listening to the debate, it is clear that at the moment I could appeal to the head of the relevant commission, Mr Rancán, and call on the committee to draw up proposals itself to support those who do not have financial opportunities (they are both disadvantaged, pensioners or seniors, as well as pupils who still drive... For the time being, in order to provide free masks for these people, either when they are in public transport or when they are shopping. Why do I say that? Because, for example, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science has experience - having received a draft law from ISM, which is totally invalid, it is recasted during the commission... At a rather fast pace, because the volume is large. There would be less size here: there would actually be only three proposals: in what way the law makes responsibility for supporting small ones accordingly... certain social groups in society. Secondly, what should we do? And the examples of my colleagues, too, of the cost of masks in Jelgava or elsewhere - if they buy on a large scale, of course, they are cheaper than if every pensioner buys them separately. The price is important at this point in time. Consequently, it is possible that in this way, by supporting disadvantaged groups, you would gain a greater effect in carrying masks than just gardening. In principle, there is now also support for a greater restriction... and at that point, perhaps also the imposition of penalties, but if it is not given a chance of support... and this law, the Covid-19 law, is precisely that it operates under some particular conditions. If the Covid... We hope that the situation will end and that there will be improvements, so that the condition for such support is no longer met... Well, there's no need for that. So, Mr. Rancán, I now call on you as the chairman of the Commission... the proposals have been made, there are also quite concrete proposals... I call on the Commission to draw up its proposals so that it does not really have to listen to the campaign - one type or another, and in both cases with quite dubious arguments, if they can be called pre-exhibition arguments at all. It will not be necessary to listen to these things during the debate of the Saeima, but finally the Saeima will be able to say that it has supported people, and at that moment, it is possible that a certain responsibility may also appear in the law for certain responsible departments that it is necessary to explain (and it can also use state public media)... that society needs to explain more why carrying masks or any other restrictions are essential both for their own health, which is the most important and for the health of others right now... to avoid endangering the health of others. At this point, Mr Rancán, you have the greatest responsibility, not just the penalty, which is an elemental approach, and it really is a totalitarian state approach, not in terms of such a small number of people, a state-building approach, or awareness-raising, and the Covid-19 law, still believe... I have voted for this law for the first time in favour of urgency, but the Covid-19 law is what would allow us to show society that we really... I mean, at this point in time, the Members of the Saeima who make laws... We really care about people, safety and health at that point. But we also care to show our attitude toward those who have wanted to. Who has also wished you, Mr Rancán. I call on the Commission to make its own proposals, but someone else will come forward. But at this point, it is not just to reject, but to really look at the substance and support the people of Latvia at this difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U37	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U38	Dear colleagues, We are talking about a law aimed at limiting the spread of infection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U39	Mr Dolgopolov, we do not see you! Mr Dolgopolov, we do not see you! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Dolgopolovs continues to speak.) Mr Dolgopolov, we do not see you! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Dolgopolovs continues to speak.) Mr Dolgopolov, we do not see you! We cannot continue, we cannot see Mr Dolgopolov on the screen. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U40	Dear colleagues, If Mr. Duriša wants to punish Members for their news and debate, then probably Mr. Duriša should at first be punished for not having taken care of the vulnerable group for this winter as the responsible representative of the Ministry of Health... receive your influenza vaccines this autumn. That's one. And if we are talking about the fight of experts in this case, I would also like to remind Mr Dūrišs that the cellulose he offers people to wear on their faces is not part of a certified mask in this case. I call on Mr Dūritis to see the rules of the mask certification, to study the Jelgava manufacturer's certificate as well, and to learn that, in fact, the filtering material that is responsible for all medical certified masks is not cellulose but polypropylene, or to lie blown, which is currently quite expensive material that costs 15 thousand... up to 15 thousand euro per tonne, which makes the cost of such certified masks up to 14 cent. In China, the cost of pulping and everything else is three cents. If we're talking about the harmfulness of the mask. So I want to call Mr. Skride really to listen carefully if he really is a scientist and read a lot of magazines... then, please, listen carefully to what we said first... in our first debate. It is not about masks that are harmful. It's about what you're offering to wear at the moment, it can be harmful. Why? Because it doesn't protect. It's so simple. Because these masks could only be harmless in one case - if these masks, which we also have here in the Saeima, are available... if they are available in the same way as the Saeima's staff and Members on every corner, so that people can wear them, remove them, and throw them in special containers instead of waste, because this is still a bacteriological material. Only in the case of these masks will they be harmful to health, because these masks, as we found out, are harmful to health, not because they are worn, but because people are using them incorrectly. Why? Because people are forced to use these masks, otherwise they are at risk of punishment. It's so simple and logical. On the subject of research, I would also like to say to Mr Skride that the fact that we are currently, in some way, misled on the one hand, by receiving information from a secure... safe sources, from the SPPC website in the spring, that masks do not have to wear, masks can even harm if they are worn by a healthy person, creating a safe... false sense of security. Without publication of any studies... without publication of any studies, without publication of any evidence suddenly, on one day, information is quietly exchanged on the SCPC website on a completely different basis. And in this case, you want to force people to believe. You want to punish people for expressing their opinions, your doubts, your concerns. You have, of course, fallen back into totalitarianism. That's exactly like, for example, a country would currently eliminate all safety belts in cars and say that now, dear, do what you want, as you can - tug your safety belts, tie them out of cardboard, from toilet paper, completely out of anything and drive! That's what you want to do at the moment, you put people in danger, because what you're offering is after-hanging, what you press to use is after-hanging. If you really want to force it to use it, then make sure that it is thrown out immediately in the first... after the first use in the wastebin as it should be, not that people then snake and put them back in their pockets or pull them out of the wastebin. It's so simple and logical. And there's no big science to apply here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U41	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U42	Hello, colleagues! Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Adding Ms Stepanenko. Julia, I know you also have a driver's license and you're driving. And I'm sure your car also has safety belts installed on the rear seats. Perhaps you didn't know, but these straps should also be used if a passenger is sitting in the rear seat. This has already been statutory. The purpose of this law is to determine what kind of punishment... and here is also an oral warning, then the units of money for not using a mask. But there's another thing. And I think it's very serious. I will try to make it known to you, my fellow Members. Builders and builders have also turned to the Saeima. And they have a very serious request. Their request is that the requirement to carry helmets on the construction site is illegal. They say that the hysteria about accidents is only maintained by helmet manufacturers. I also know many builders myself, and no one has been hit by an accident on the construction site. And I think that all of its security briefings are for fear of builders only. It's because it's to turn them into sheep... most likely. Even those who do not believe in these cases or, let us say, those who believe in these accidents, admit that a helmet does not provide one hundred percent security. Recently, a builder also fell on a concrete plate on his head, and he fell and had a helmet. And that helmet didn't protect him. That is a very serious idea. So what's the point of such a helmet? Builders and builders require this. Carrying a helmet, by the way... it's very uncomfortable, it's harmful, it's pushing, it pushes, pushes and destroys the hairstyle, sweats the head, and in my opinion it could also be one of the factors of baldness, so to say, promotion. Such a letter has been sent by builders and builders. I think that the government is concerned about this. That's their last sentence. Dear colleagues, I hope you took all of this with sarcasm and humor - just like my letter, because it's just as funny as to hear these arguments here... and indeed from the opposition that masks are not necessary. I think face protection masks. The crazy thing is that people really are watching this and who are not members of the Saeima... Perhaps really believe a Member with scissors who cuts masks and says that all this is in the value of toilet paper, which, in fact, also seems to me to be not so cheap, but that it is nothing and it does not give anything. We learn every day, the laws become every day. And we make laws in the Saeima every day. That's the idea. I'll explain why, at all, those masks had the kind of cookie they were. When it was spring, when I first became ill (and I hope the last one) with Covid-19, the situation was like this: simply there was a lack of material around the world for these masks, and it was not this blue part or white part, but that is the average layer already mentioned by Jūlija Stepanenko, called the lie blown material, this is an antibacterial one. Indeed, it is the most expensive in that mask, and indeed it was also that Poland was the closest place to where we produced it, and China had already closed everything hard, because there was the greatest demand for everything. Just couldn't make it happen. Remember, we still sent separately... specially designed for aeroplane masks. Simply states closed their borders and prohibited the sale of this material, prohibited the export of this material out of the country to their territory, so that it would be sufficient for their citizens. Now it is that this material has already been produced and the masks are there, and here in Latvia we produce it. We produce them both with this average lie blown layer and without. There are many different ways. Masks are all kinds of things. What I want to say about the doctors. There's a thing that the word "doctor" is associated with something you trust. At least in my world, this is the case. And the doctor said, so that's it... Well, there are no doctors who say something wrong. But I think one doctor is a specific non-doctor, and this doctor has his own television programme, where part is paid by Latvian taxpayers. I'm also watching that... and now there is a quote, now without sarcasm, very serious: “We - the members of the Board of the Latvian Association of Doctors and Dentalians... invite and ask Latvians to follow the conclusions and recommendations of scientific research on Covid-19 prevalence, on what factors strengthen or limit it. We reject as an untruthful public statement by Peters Apiņš, a member of the Board of the Latvian Medical Society, that “tissue masks don’t work”, that “children with Covid-19 don’t get sick anywhere in the world”, that “singing protects from Covid-19”. Such claims are dangerous for health, they disinformation Latvian society and do not encourage action to help Latvia reduce the number of infected and dead people.” Let us take this into account, and such a Dr. Apinis can only stay in the name of the Dr. False news. These are really false news whether they are broadcast here, in this Saeima online mode, or whether it happens through social networks. It's the same as the false news of this here... the distributors were... that the shopping center “Alfa” has collapsed, and this man, who said it, wrote click pages, earned money, he earned some way. Then he said he was talking about the Chinese people, and there was a penalty again, and I think that penalty is still happening... So the trial is going on, it was Andzins. But this man did it for clicks. His salary was clicked. On the other hand, there is an example of our Member, the Saeima, one of the hundreds of Members, earning, as Ilmārs Dūritis said, his political capacity, I think it only undermines - such texts, speaking of all this, how inefficient, unnecessary, and yet appealing to God for everything. I understand that Ledjayev has been at Rainis, and something needs to be done now, because all the stricts are missing, and how can we move on in the world now? Colleagues, there's a lockdown in France, huh? Commandant hour. In Poland, it was two weeks ago. In Germany, the same is happening at the moment. We are here now in a situation where we need to take a decision without delay. This decision is here for the use of masks. Must have. Mandatory! Very good is in English this term - must have when there are no more options. The thing is that, hearing, let's accept, the Member's comparison with the toilet paper on this average layer of this here, which is that antibacterial material, what is the same essence that it's unnecessary for nothing and in principle you can go through the toilet paper... You know, I think the comparison is exactly the same as you take mercury when you're a kid... I think many have hit the thermometer, at least I've seen a mercury thermometer tied... and then compare this mercury, let's assume, with some guash color that is in the same color, and say that it's nothing - it's already such a guash color. Let us assume sulphuric acid, if, and water - two glasses, completely identical, but they are similar on the eye, but no differences - what can the effect of substances be? No way! It's, after all, transparent fluids! Now it's about... So tragic these comparisons are. If, on the other hand, a wise person really still imagines that he has the greatest truth, then straight to the centre of Infectology of Latvia – right! Go over there, walk through this center. The center is open, you can calmly approach the windows, see how young men sleep there, men old, as well as women at the ventilators, to these oxygen balloons - go and see that it's all, well, feiks, well, inefficiencies, and what you're getting here now, your personal... and democracy is oppressed, God, what is happening in our free Latvia! It is in this way that the people of Latvia are also protected - this is our task here as Members. It is imperative to remind you of this simple thing - I don't know, Krišjānis Kariņš says this, in my opinion, 65 times a day: two meters, wash your hands, mask! Two meters, wash your hands, mask! Well, you can just remember it! Then for the fact that we can, I believe, find in some way a solution to the fact that these masks are available, that these lower provided... provided social layer someone... they get these masks that they can get them for free. That would be right, it would be normal. This should be promoted. I hope that this will be the next thing we will do. Here, too, we can put this proposal, let us accept it, but it must be calculated how much it really costs. Well, here's something about these people, who are also Members, distributing false news. And it's a false news, and it's like, an interesting little poplar, to get up and now just play, and to say that it's all that the government tells you here, it's all crazy and bad, because you see, well, it's the government that tells it. There's nothing good about it! It's exactly the same story as helmets - show me any, even one builder, who's got a concrete plate on his head and who's survived. Show me, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, Okay, what does that helmet need for? Well, there's the whole argument here! Colleagues, let's support this! And we will support urgency, and we will also support these restrictions, and if we can, we take some excess mask in our pocket and give it to someone in the store if we see that someone does not have it. Maybe it's forgot, maybe there's really no way to get it. And I think we're... The people of Latvia are very generous in their inner essence and we can also provide with these masks the surrounding co-citizens. Thank you all. Have a nice day of work for you!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U43	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U44	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We have had a really very wide-ranging debate and, yes, after the parliamentary roll of order at first reading, it is said that we are conceptually debating the draft law as a whole. However, by its very nature, most of you have explicitly indicated the addition of Article 50.1 of the draft law to the following wording: ‘The non-use of oral and nasal covers... shall be subject to a warning or a fine of up to 10 fine units’. That is why I would like to speak directly in the debate about this specific wording of the proposed law. Consequently, the prevention of administrative penalties by imposing a warning or a fine on up to 10 such entities in the event of non-compliance with the law. Yes, the administrative penalty should also be considered as an important assessment of the legality of each person, and the imposition of an administrative penalty and its application creates criminality. Let us remember, however, that until relatively recently during this parliamentary term, 13 we ourselves adopted the Law on Administrative Responsibility, which entered into force this year on 1 July. It lays down specific principles for the application of administrative penalties, general rules for the application of penalties and mitigating circumstances and, in the case of any administrative penalties, is binding on the user. When assessing the alleged infringement of each individual, both the seriousness of the infringement, the circumstances of the violation and the identity of the perpetrator and other considerations will be assessed. Colleagues, we are talking here about the rule of law... the application of warnings and a fine of up to 10 fine units. And this should also be seen as a possible violation of an individual's rights, whether it has been established by law, whether it has a legitimate aim and whether it is proportionate. Yes, by law, clearly if we are talking about amendments to the law. Do you have a legitimate goal? I believe that, here too, no debate, even from my fellow lawyers who have tried to be very eloquent, has challenged this legitimate objective to limit the spread of infection by such a preventive measure. And, as far as proportionality of the penalty is concerned, in my view, the sanctions that apply here, both in terms of the possibility of an alert and in terms of a fine that is very broad - between one and 10 fine units, each one has not only a right but an obligation to assess, according to the circumstances of the offence, what a specific administrative penalty would be applicable. So, colleagues, in this debate, listening to really very respectable colleagues, doctors from various sciences, thank you very much to those colleagues who have in-depth knowledge in the field of medicine. I would very much like us to understand that we are talking here about an administrative penalty, exactly the same administrative penalty as elsewhere where we are talking about compliance with the law, and about the proportionality of this penalty: a warning or a fine of up to 10 fine units. And when we come to this draft law at second reading, and if this debate on it is going to continue even after the proposals and analyses heard at the Commission's meeting, then we should also talk specifically about the proportionality of the penalty. In my view, the regulation currently proposed at first reading is proportionate. Every person, municipality or state police, applying a penalty, will assess the measure of administrative penalty for such violation according to the Law on Administrative Liability. Thus, we can now support this draft law at first reading. And we will have to debate this at second reading as soon as possible. Colleagues, please, please, do not overshadow this very important issue with your eloquence and perhaps with some other points. It is the responsibility of the legislator to impose such an administrative penalty, because we cannot remain without the regulation of the law on this issue since the onset and spread of infection has increased. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U45	The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U46	Hello, colleagues! First of all, thank you very much to Inese Lībins-Egner for a really very good explanation that takes away much of what I wanted to say... has already been said. In my view, we have put a lot of questions on the table about whether the mask is really more harmful than the Covid-19. I'd say no, because it's not for nothing in the surgery halls of surgeons and sisters every day, and all those in the surgery hall use the mask. So the mask helps, the mask protects. The other important thing. It must be understood that the mask is just one element in limiting Covid-19. And already today, when we go to a supermarket or go to other public places, we see that people are using these masks, understanding their nature. But there are some individuals who refuse to obey or use these masks, thus threatening not only themselves but others in society. And that is why today we are talking about administrative responsibility under this law, because there are individuals who do not share the common public interest. And in this case, we really have to discuss the proportionality of this penalty, where I think it is proportionate, because we are talking about... ranging from warning to a specific measure of punishment, and each administrative penalty is therefore an individual issue to be considered. Of course, we need to be prepared to buy a large amount of masks, but we can see that there are face and nose covers that can be prepared for long-term use, but they must be washed. A number of colleagues have spoken about the fact that masks can be misused. It is true - we can also use a toothbrush for wrong purposes, we can also use a spoon without washing, but it is already an individual responsibility for how we use hygiene for each individual. In this case, when talking about the use of masks, we are talking about the fact that... common public health and how we protect each other, so I ask for support and call on everyone to really understand that this administrative penalty is for individuals who do not comply with the objectives of improving public health. Thank you. ( Interface: “Very good! ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U47	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the first time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U48	Once again, I'm sorry, I had problems with the technique. Very short. First. The epidemiological situation shows that we are hasty to lift the emergency regime. One point. If we return to this norm, there will also be a number of other things, one of which is restrictions on human rights, which are linked to the imposition of penalties for non-compliance and so on, and so on. The second question I wanted to say. Without discussing it - it is useful or useless, right or wrong to wear masks - I think it is neither Karina nor Viņķelis' invention. Infectologists and experts recommend this. Consequently, this is not the subject of discussion. There's an object... The subject of the debate is how to ensure people with those masks. In my view, when it comes to this amendment of the law, it should be raised in such a way that the provision of masks is a matter of public responsibility. And the masks must be provided for every citizen of Latvia free of charge, because the virus does not divide people into the poor and rich and it does not divide people by knowledge... and select those to whom its certificates are or are not available. It is therefore one of the problems that I think should be addressed in an emergency, which, in fact, also exists without having announced it. And the last one. I think there is a question here, not about the size of the punishment and everything else, it's about it... if we live in unusual and unusual circumstances and we understand that the situation is very serious... in that case, you can also talk about the imposition of a penalty, but also about action that would ensure not how to punish... Like a whip... we would threaten people, force them to comply with norms, rules of law, but would also raise awareness in people, explaining why, how and for whom. I think that for the second reading, it should be included in this provision that the government is obliged to provide masks for all Latvian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U49	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U50	Hello, colleagues! It is a pleasure to hear today, hearing the debate that it is called upon to say the truth that there is a need to talk about evident things, that there is a need to comply with the law. I have a valid question: to whom do you say all this? What are you referring to? Because if you want to extend it to society, if you want society to act responsibly, to comply with the law, then I think the power should first of all show this example that you are responsible in this situation, that you are complying with the law. And here I would like to remind you of a few things. One of the things you remember at the end of the previous session, that is, before the big summer break, we began to look at how responsible it was then, how legitimately the power had acted in this situation. I'm not going to mention doctors here, how responsible, how legitimate you were when deciding their remuneration. I am now talking about these purchases of masks and respirators, where it turned out that this process has taken place very far from being called responsible and compliant with the law. One of the requests related to this mask purchases, to this respiratory and mask purchases, was that the advertising company... the advertising agency company had won the purchase... which was subsequently purchased by circumventing legal procedures. When asked to explain to the authority the reasons for this procedure, as it has all happened, the authority was unable to do so. Go on. It was said that these masks, these breathers, are appropriate. When the authority was asked - give these evidencing things, actually these certificates, where, in particular, they have been made, they have still not done so, because unfortunately, this summer break started. In the meantime, there have been many other interesting things, new facts about each other's aero, which you all know very well, about the OIC aero, which we will be looking at here today at the next sitting. Soon. And I'm going to want to see you make a responsible, law-abiding decision, how you will respond to these evidencing things, where you will see the obvious way this scene is covered and continued. There has been continued fraud at a particularly high level. And if we're going back to these very masks now, we're going to find out now how it really happened to all those purchases. If you say that you are prepared to be responsible and to comply with the law and that you are prepared to punish Mr Gobzem in fury for his pseudo-experience, then I hope that, with the same rigour, you will also treat your ministers who carried out such pseudo-experiences, perhaps with regard to millions of masks and respirators, and put public health and, perhaps, life at risk. And you will have the opportunity to prove to the general public that you are truly responsible in this situation and in the rule of law, already today you will have the opportunity to prove it for the OIC area. I invite everyone to follow and draw their own conclusions. There are words and there are works. And I want the power to be responsible for what it says and for what it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U51	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U52	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. I would remind you that the use of masks was determined because these masks were reduced, and I again stressed the word - decreased! - if it is not certain, the possibility of infection by reducing the secretions from each individual person. There is nothing to add to me except that I am calling for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U53	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”! Please, let's vote! For - 72, for - 4, for - 13. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for proposals and the time to review the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U54	The deadline for tabling proposals - 15 minutes and a second reading - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 29 October this year, i.e. today.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U55	Yeah, thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 29 this year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) ... Are there any other proposals? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Yes!” ) Please open section “Procedure”. Please apply to Members who wish to submit a deadline for the submission of other proposals. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U56	Colleagues, that's... Yes, it's not yet time. It's time to start or not?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U57	Set the deadline.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U58	Colleagues, that's a scam, because I also took part in that sitting...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U59	Please specify a time limit. We are not having a debate right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U60	I took part in that sitting, and the deadline was set at one day, not 15 minutes. I call for consistency. One day - by 5 p.m. tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U61	The time limit for proposals shall be one day - by 5 p.m. on 30 October of this year. Please turn on the microphone for Evia Papule.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U62	Hello! Mr. Rancan, you surprised me. Is the commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U63	Can you give us the deadline for the proposals?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U64	Yeah, one hour, one hour. And yet I'll finish it. Mr. Rancan, you surprised me... Looking at the proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U65	Thank you. We must therefore vote in favour of the next deadline for tabling proposals. This is one day, i.e. October 30 at 17.00, offered by Member Jūlija Stepanenko. Please open the procedure section so that we can vote in favour of Mrs Stepanenko's proposal. Please call me! We will be voting on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” - 30 October at 17.00! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 56, for - 1. This proposal is therefore not supported. Evija Papule, a member of the Saeima, is offering proposals for the second term. It is one hour, i.e. 12.30 a.m. on 29 October this year. We will be voting on this right now. Can we vote? Please call me! We will be voting on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” - October 29 at 12.30! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 30, against - 56, abstaining. This proposal is therefore rejected. ( Milestones.) Please turn on the microphone for Juris Rancan. That's it, colleagues...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U66	I heard about what Mrs Papules wanted to say to us. I would like to say that, yes, initially this committee's decision was - one day, but when we saw the rapid expansion of the Covid-19, the submission of this deadline was decided at the meeting of 27 October this year at the ‘various’, because it is necessary to adopt this law more quickly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U67	Thank you, Mr Ranzan, for your explanation. That question has therefore been decided by the Commission at its meeting on 27 October this year. The deadline set by the Commission for the submission of proposals - 15 minutes - shall therefore remain in force until 11.45 a.m. on 29 October this year and consideration at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 29 October this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Song and Dance Festival”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U68	Hello, dear colleagues! So we worked with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Song and Dance Festival” (No. 793/Lp13). And for the second reading we received one proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reinis Znotiņš, asking to supplement the draft law with a reference to the time when the law came into force, stating that the law enters into force on the day following its announcement. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U69	Members are in favour. Dear colleagues, I have again informed you that a new procedure will come into force. So, if a Member demands a vote on this proposal, there is an opportunity to do so by pressing the button "calls for a vote". The Members therefore support the proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U70	So the proposals have been examined. And accordingly, the Commission has also supported all draft laws at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Song and Dance Festival” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to law “On the protection of the body of the deceased and the use of human tissues and organs in medicine”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U72	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine””. For the second reading, the Ministry of Health submitted five proposals, which, when examined by the committee responsible, did not change the substance of the proposal, were adjusted. And so we have 10 proposals that we need to consider. Proposal No 1...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U73	Mr. Orlov, one moment. Thank you for starting to look at this draft law. We need a 15-minute break for technical reasons. Dear colleagues, We need a break. So 15 minutes, by 11:45. In Colonel 11.45, we will continue to see these draft laws at final reading. There's also a record of Members. Thank you. It was a success. Let's go back at 11.45. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U74	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the law “On the protection of the body of the deceased and the use of human tissues and organs in medicine””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U75	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! As I said, we have 10 proposals put forward on 10.... Proposal No 1 submitted by the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele. He was born after the Latvian Medical Association approached the Ministry of Health and pointed out that certified doctors who develop their knowledge and study by studying an accredited medical study programme in one of the universities do not have the possibilities for ordinary students, that is, the use of living human tissues and organs, as well as the use of deceased human organs in the training process. This issue was debated at the beginning with specialists and representatives of the Ministry of Health, and then he was debated during the committee meeting. And the Commission, simply by improving him, prepared its own version, so proposal 1 has been partly supported and included 2. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U76	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U77	(I can't hear.) ... is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U79	3. - a proposal from the Minister for Health. Partly supported and included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U80	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U81	The proposal, drawn up by the commission responsible, has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U83	The proposal was submitted by the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele. And he partially supported and is in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U84	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U85	Proposal No 6 was drawn up by the commission responsible. And he's got support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U87	Proposal 7 from the Minister for Health Partly supported and included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U88	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U89	8. The proposal has received support from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U91	Proposal No 9 from the Ministry of Health. Partly supported and included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U92	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U93	Proposal No 10 was drawn up by the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour. And he received support from the members of the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U95	I therefore ask you, on behalf of the Commission, to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U96	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! To - 66, to - no, to - 1. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, So we have examined the agenda of the sitting. Time for notifications. Today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague, Ilze Indricsone, and we welcome him. (Applause) Name for the statement to Member Martin Bondar. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondar says something. Noise.) Mr Bondara is asking for the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to start work in five minutes' time at a distance. The name of the announcement to Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U97	I call Members... Hello, colleagues! I call on Members to come to Members' support group for small and medium-sized farmers in Office 304 of the Committee on Petitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2130-U98	Thank you, colleagues. And another statement on behalf of the Bureau. So there is a scheduled break of 30 minutes and the Bureau decided that we will continue to discuss the agenda of the meeting on 8 October 15 minutes after the discussion of the agenda of the meeting on 29 October. Both breaks are combined, and the break is 45 minutes, which means that we will resume work at 12.40. Colleagues, that's October 8th at 12, 12,40. Registration of participants is also required. Registration has been successfully completed. I therefore closed the extraordinary sitting on 29 October this year.
