ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I call for seats to be held in the Saeima Chambers. Let us begin the extraordinary meeting on 23 April 2020. Dear colleagues, On 18 April we received a message that Latvian patriot, public employee, 9 and 10 were divided from us. Member of the Saeima Visvaldis Lācis. Let's pay tribute to his memory! ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. Honourable Members! Members Feldman, Budrik, Muižniece, Riekstins, Cielen and others are asking for a reduction in the time of the debate on the issues to be debated at the Saeima meeting on 23 April 2020: to establish that, for the first time, the time is three minutes, speaking for the second time – one minute, but when reviewing draft laws at second and third readings, the time for the debate is two minutes, speaking for the first time, one minute – for the second time. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “ There are objections! Objection!” ) I see that he has applied... Have Members applied to speak? So to speak against, Member Jūlija Stepanenko has applied for.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U2	Thank you. Colleagues! I was really successful in sending an email to the discussion@sayima.lv in a second. I'm really lucky. Colleagues! Colleagues from the coalition! I really call on you to review these decisions that you have taken with regard to reducing the time of the debate, because we are all in one... in one single Covid-19 crisis and our opposition proposals must necessarily come out of this tribunal; although they are, of course, no longer a debate, but simply a convocation between the Saeima sittings, but... no matter what it is in the verbatim report, and what we are saying now in these proposals is certainly significant from the government side, if not from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Colleagues! Very many people complain that government work is not good enough these days, and complain that there is a great deal of error and a great deal of inaction. We want to point this out, not to criticise you, but so that we can all find a solution together so that as few people as possible suffer from this crisis at all. Colleagues! What you're doing right now is even worse than your... Your falsely and unjustly criticised Hungary, honored "Development/About!" Colleagues! What you are doing at the moment is all the more terrible: you are reducing the time for the debate for the opposition colleagues, because you are not saying it yourself... Nothing at all... on these proposals. You don't have to say anything, because you don't even think about people! Colleagues! I call on you to put an end to this theatre with a reduction in the time of the debate, otherwise you will really have very great problems then to build a normal relationship with the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U3	Please call me! Let us vote for the period of debate on the issues to be discussed at the extraordinary meeting on 23 April 2020 for the first time, speaking for the second time – one minute, but when examining draft laws at second and third reading, two minutes – first time, one minute – second time! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U4	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the reduction in the time of the debate, which states that the time of the debate is three minutes, speaking for the first time, one minute – second time, but when examining draft laws at second and third readings, two minutes – first time, one minute – second time: for – 58, against – 32, abstain – 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U5	Thank you. Decision adopted. As a result, at the extraordinary meeting of the Saeima on 23 April this year, the following period of debate was set: for the first time – three minutes, for the second time – one minute, and for the second time – one minute, when examining draft laws at second and third readings, for the first time – two minutes, and for the second time – one minute. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U6	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear Members of the sitting! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we have examined before the second reading the draft law “Amendments to the law on prevention and management of state threats and their consequences due to the spread of Covid-19”. In total, more than 40 proposals have been received. 1. – Proposal by Members Dombrava, Ples, Juša, Pucena and Latkovska. It provides for the addition of a new Article, Article 2.1, in the following wording: ‘The Ministry responsible for ensuring safe and remote work in public administration is the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development’. The Commission has supported the proposal by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U7	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U8	2. – An offer from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Valaiņa, Liepiņa, Stepanenko and Bergmanis. It provides for the addition of Article 3.1 to the law in the following wording: ‘The municipal capital company, which is the taxpayer of natural resources and is affected by the crisis due to the expansion of Covid-19, is entitled to apply for an extension of the period for payment of the tax. The natural resources tax payer shall submit a reasoned application to the tax administration.’ The rules of this particular initiative are regulated... This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U9	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U10	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues! The essence of this proposal is to help municipal capital companies, natural resources taxpayers and, in principle, waste managers. Because the possibility of postponing tax payments does not apply to natural resources taxable persons, but it would be useful to anticipate this in the context of a crisis, because public utility providers currently have difficulties in matching their cash flows, as many customers who have been regular users of the service are currently out of work due to their failure. For example, educational establishments, which are regular clients to such businesses, have now ceased their activities, and therefore the waste management service is not relevant. In a situation in which government members have also called on utilities providers to be customer-friendly, not to calculate penalties, late payment, companies would also be happy to do so if they could afford to do so. And, in order to be able to afford, the introduction of a suspension of the natural resources tax without penalty and for up to three years, as in the case of other taxes, would be very helpful, especially since this type of company, the municipal capital companies that manage waste, do not qualify for other State aid. So I am calling for this proposal to be supported. Well, if you don't support it today, then... in any case, this is an issue that I believe the government has to resolve. But I also think that this text has been prepared correctly, in accordance with those texts which have already been incorporated into the law with regard to the possibilities for other tax deferrals. So that we ask you to do one practically good thing and support municipal capital companies, as a result – also residents.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U11	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U12	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – Member Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Valaiņa, Liepiņa, Stepanenko and Bergmanis' proposal! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U14	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 2: 32, 58, abstaining - is absent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U15	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U16	3. – the proposal of Minister of Finance Reira. It states: ‘Please supplement the draft law with a new article, which provides for the addition of Article 7.1 to the law in the following wording: ‘( 1) Authorisations received on the basis of Article 7(1) of that law shall cease to be valid on the day following the end of the emergency situation. ( 2) After the end of the emergency, the taxpayer (with the exception of medical and veterinary institutions and pharmacy) shall, on the day when the authorisations received on the basis of paragraph 1 of Article 7 of the Law cease to be valid, carry out inventory of the unused alcohol and declare the established residues to the State Revenue Service, in addition to specifying the planned activities with the undenatured alcohol.’ “ The article below describes in detail the activities to be carried out by taxable persons. This proposal was supported by the Commission by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U18	4. – a proposal from a group of Members to amend Rule 13. This proposal was not supported by the Commission. The Commission also drew the government's attention to this problem, which needs to be addressed. And it was said that the solution is being sought in a working group chaired by the Minister of Finance. And the partial solution is 5. – in the version of the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U19	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U20	5. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal. It provides for supplementing Article 13 of the Law with the second and third subparagraphs in the following wording: “(2) The municipal council may, by decision, apply the support provided for in the first paragraph of this Article, subject to the conditions and procedure for granting the aid laid down in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, to other economic operators, associations and foundations which lease the property of the respective municipality or a capital company controlled by it. ( 3) Costs incurred in granting the aid provided for in this Article shall not be borne directly by the lessor from the State budget.’ , to consider the current text as the first paragraph. The Commission has supported this proposal by changing the numbering of future articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U22	6. – Proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Švekova, Pimenova, Lochmeles–Lunovo, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepāja. It provides for the addition of a new Article in the following wording: “For the purposes of the first paragraph of Article 14, the first sentence of the first paragraph shall read as follows: “If an employer of the sectors affected by the crisis does not employ an employee or does not fulfil the obligations of the employee to accept the performance (receipt), the employee shall be compensated, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers, for up to 75 per cent of the average remuneration of the previous six months, up to a maximum of EUR 1000 per calendar month (receipt allowance) and not less than EUR 300 per calendar month.” “ This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U23	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U24	Dear colleagues, This proposal appeared for the first time already in early April; it was then submitted for the first time and was rejected. This proposal has now been tabled for the second time. I think it is clear to you all today that this proposal is, by its very nature, correct. Because it's that... it is clear that, on the one hand, the Ministry of Finance has reserved for borrowing money... So now, in the Treasury account, if I'm not mistaken, there's more than... around EUR 2.6 billion. But it's been a month, and only about five million euros have been paid out of the drop-out allowance. So it is absolutely clear that there is a huge gap between good intentions and performance, that is, between what is reserved and what is paid. And you yourself... That's... I appreciate this, of course, very positive... They have also understood that and have taken steps to introduce, give people benefits. I understand that a decision has just been made... EUR 130 – minimum per person. A week ago, decisions were made on... EUR 50 per child. So, colleagues, there is a question to which none of the coalitions or governments have answered yet – to which calculations are based? Is there any minimum consumption basket from which you can... Is that so? You can say with confidence that... For example, if you're talking about single mom with two kids... Is she 130... plus 100... 230 euros a month... Is it enough to pay both public utility bills and buy food... other things? So, on what basis are these figures based, these amounts of benefits? Have they been taken from the air? Because that's how it really looks like numbers...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U25	Thank you. It's over. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U26	Colleagues! I also call for support for this proposal, which provides for a minimum soft pay of EUR 300. At the very least, this would allow those who have been unemployed to survive this time of crisis, even if they have not been taxed too much in the past. I cannot say that it is enough, but it would at least allow something to pull ends. The positive news is yesterday... I read that the government has decided to support the proposal of the Ministry of Welfare with a minimum allowance of EUR 130. I am very pleased about this, because a few days ago, the Minister for Welfare, when we discussed this proposal at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... The argument that income should be provided to entrepreneurs and employees and that it is not the right time to punish them for low-taxation or non-payment, and that this income should be provided to alleviate social tensions, the welfare minister said in a cool calm way: "No, it is not necessary, because there are other municipalities that can support them with social benefits." In my opinion, a rather absurd approach, especially from the Ministry of Welfare! I would also understand if the Ministry of Finance were to take this approach forward. Colleagues! What I would like to remind you once again is that a third of Latvia's population has no savings. 40 percent of Latvia's population's savings are such that they do not allow the household to be maintained for more than three months. We are already in the second month of the emergency – the second month with these huge restrictions! – and indeed very many entrepreneurs and employees have been left idle, there are no sufficient resources. If we do not want social tension, if we really understand what solidarity is, especially at a difficult time, then this proposal must be supported. And the economy will also benefit from it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U27	Thank you. Do Members object if Member Aldis Gobzems unites both speaking times? There is no objection. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U28	Good morning, colleagues! The question is still the previous one: what is the government's strategy for exiting the country from the state of emergency? I am not talking about or asking for a specific time limit or concrete measures. What I want to understand – what are the criteria for ending restrictions? When will these restrictions be ended, and how will each citizen of Latvia be helped in concrete terms? It is quite clear that this is the task of this government to present such criteria to the public, rather than to give vague messages about plowing together. These are not criteria that allow planning business! These are not criteria that enable the public to be mobilised to achieve any specific objective! Don't leave the feeling that government and civil service are comfortable in the sofa – at the moment when society gets one after the other severe economic shocks. What is being done to synchronise the restoration of our economic capacity at regional level – the Baltic States and Northern Europe, Germany? What exactly is being done? The summer is coming. What are the forecasts for the tourism sector? According to statistics, we are at the same point as we were at the beginning of April with the increase in the number of new cases of Covid-19. Does this mean that the Ministry of Health has no plan other than this one – the non-existent... Is that so? And then – is this, non-existent, the most effective? If this is a plan, then I fear that there will be too little with four billion. Soon many will have nothing to eat for those who have not received their retirement benefits. What is the government's plan to feed the thousands who do not receive a cut-off allowance and who do not have what to feed their families? Well, just one of the examples you know better... Television image Valters Krauze or from “Deep purple” Nauris Brikmanis – they can intersect in the social networks and the yellow press. But there are many who can't. What is your plan to support those people who cannot shout in the press? How will you generate income for them? I stress that this is not a holiday for you, nor for the bureaucracy of this country. And that this is not the time to play positions and opposition games, rejecting constructive proposals from the opposition. And more. As regards the work of officials, a concrete example of how effective it is today. Edgars Severs, Director of the Sport Department of the Ministry of Education and Science, has been developing regulations since March to allow for the assembly of outdoor sports. It's the end of April, it's about to be May. It is known that the major non-governmental organisations of sport themselves have developed such rules pro-actively. And all that a particular official should do is coordinate these activities. A month has passed, and nothing! And there are also these decisions here in the Saeima. It's been a month...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U29	Thank you. The speaking time is over. Do colleagues have reservations if Member Regina Ločmele-Lunova combines the two speaking times in the debate on proposal 6? There is no objection. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U30	Good morning, colleagues! This morning, information is popular in the media about the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers is about to adopt the current epidemic order today, and one of the plans of the government is to set the minimum amount of the drop-out allowance – 130 euros. As Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis reminded, the opposition has already proposed to set the minimum amount of the drop-out allowance – 300 euros. At the time, it seemed to be a hopeless event, but here it happened... EUR 130 – minimum allowance... still on condition that those people who had already been paid an end-of-life allowance... we know that its minimum size for today is EUR 4.60... that all these people will be automatically added to the allowance of EUR 130... There will also be an automatic addition of EUR 50 per dependent child. So, I think, you now have an opportunity to make it easier for the government to work, by law, to determine the amount of the minimum soft pay – EUR 300. Because EUR 130 will not improve anything for people who do not actually have any income during the epidemic. And you hope that society will also accept this EUR 130... Minimum stop-out allowance... You could not hope for it! With 130 euros, no person, no family can survive in Latvia at present. So we are calling for a real listening to the opposition proposal, because it is a popular vote. This is a real opinion of the situation. Please support this proposal, thus supporting all the people of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U31	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U32	I ask you to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U33	Are there objections to combining the two speaking times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U34	Colleagues! I will ask you to support this proposal... and read, and get acquainted not only with coalition but also with other, opposition, proposals. I invite you to thaw your cold ice hearts, look at it and read the letters that people write, listen to how people live and what problems people face today. And that's just the beginning. What do you think are the 13 000 people living today who, until April 20, had been given up with the State Revenue Service's cut-off benefits, which is, as we know, an average of EUR 250? We do not have data about how people live and how they live in this self-isolation. We don't have any data about how much... Taking into account these criteria, the criteria for the soft pay... how many people have not applied for these benefits. And we don't have information about how these people live. In my opinion, this would be the time to remind the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Atim Zakaitistov, of the gold words he once said that the lives of certain people are behind every official's decision. And you, Ati Zakaitistov... Today too... Both me and you – we are officials of this country, and each of us depends on the decisions we make, and therefore on the lives of people behind these decisions. The only difference between me and you, Ati, is that I'm in opposition, but you're in coalition. So you have many more levers to move in some way the Head of the State Revenue Service, Ieva Jaunzeme, the Minister of Finance, Jānis Reira, and all governments. Because we have public concerns about how people will survive and what awaits them tomorrow, we have to react today, not when... when it may be too late. I beseech you again – thaw your hearts, listen, try to understand, obey in cases when you don't understand anything, and just be people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U35	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U36	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. – the proposal submitted by Members Dombrovskis, Švekova, Pimenova, Lochmeles-Lunovo, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepāja! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U38	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Result of the vote on proposal 6: 33, 55, abstention: 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U39	Thank you. The proposal is therefore not supported. Please turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko, who wants to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U40	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to point out that I have asked for the vote on proposal 4, but, miraculously, no one has heard me. I had also applied for a debate on proposal 5 but, as a miracle, no one heard me. I would also like to point out that the rapporteur does not respect the rules on this draft law and does not name the names of all the proposers of the draft law, how he should do so. No such ‘group of Members’. And the factions... the name of the political group, and there are individual Members who have tabled proposals. I call – and I also call on Mrs Mūrniece to support me in this call! – for the rapporteur to give the names of the Members concerned who have submitted the proposal, as follows: This would make it easier for us to follow the process and it would also show the names of those Members who have tabled these proposals on the verbatim report. I call on you to stick to the Saeima roll of order, no matter how much you do not respect it at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U41	Thank you. It's over. Thank you, Member Julia Stepanenko, who spoke about the procedure. Let's keep going. Please turn on the microphone for Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U42	7. – Proposal by Members Dombrovskis, Švekova, Pimenova, Lochmeles-Lunovo, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepiņa. It provides for supplementing the draft law with a new article by the following wording: “Complement Article 14 of the Law with the third paragraph in the following wording: “( (3) During the period of the entry into force of the Act, the death benefit shall also be paid to the taxpayer of micro-enterprises and a member of the board of commercial companies and micro-enterprises to the amount specified in the first paragraph of this Article.” “ This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U43	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U44	Colleagues! The essence of this proposal is not only to provide for a minimum marginal benefit that would be payable to employees regardless of the amount of tax paid in advance, but also to micro-enterprises. And one of the key arguments, of course, is that for those citizens – a very large number of citizens are employed in the micro-enterprises tax regime! – the need for livelihoods in this difficult period. But the other... I generally believe that the State Revenue Service and the Ministry of Finance must develop a system for granting a minimum benefit (in this case, our offer is that it would be EUR 300) to an employee who is absent, without any controls. Yeah... To be honest, I am surprised by the irony with which the Head of the State Revenue Service is currently telling about one example: 4.6 euro – the lowest allowance. He paid EUR 4.6 to the employee... First of all, there is, of course, how to say... You can even say, a little laughing at a person if someone imagines that these funds can survive. But the other thing – you have worked in the state administration and you understand how much the administration paid the State Revenue Service to calculate to control and further allocate these 4.6 euros. The minimum allowance must be such that it is possible to draw ends. It must be paid out automatically. (If a businessman requests more than the minimum amount of benefit, he can make controls and also spend the state budget on various types of checks and administration.) All will benefit from it. We will not humiliate those citizens, we will not waste our resources, we will help to keep the economy alive for a little while.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U45	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U46	Dear colleagues, I know that you usually do not have anything to answer, but you hear very well what I say and what my colleagues say. And I know very well that you are doing this game here; that you hear our proposals. You're now... then you put all of this into your proposals. In some normal situation, the country has no harm, colleagues. But this is not a normal situation. This is an emergency, colleagues! These proposals... For the first time, you had the opportunity to vote on them again on 2 April, colleagues. And now we have... Today you have just made a conceptual decision on these 130 euros per month – on the minimum allowance. Okay, step in the right direction. But then... In the family you will only accept it in a week, it will only be on 30 April. April 30! Then it will be almost two months... People are really idle, they do not have the means to provide, to provide for their families. So today, colleagues, for this game... this game is absolutely unfounded! You cannot say that you do not have any resources. We all know that there is EUR 2.6 billion in the Treasury. The funds are! All considerations of its fiscal discipline no longer apply to today. We are talking only about your impatience, colleagues, and about your unwillingness and inability to recognise your mistakes. It is normal to make mistakes, colleagues; only those who do nothing make mistakes. But maybe it's time, however, to put everything aside – something pretending, talking about, that these are our proposals, but these are opposition proposals – and yet do the right thing? I think you know very well that this is the right thing – what we are offering this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U47	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U48	I will take this opportunity to say that the Minister for Welfare is also a member of the Saeima and is likely to follow this debate closely... and, for these benefits, to whom and how much. I have a question – why EUR 130? Why not 230 or 280? And the question is, when has the Ministry of Welfare last calculated this minimum subsistence basket? I know it has not been calculated. And what process is it and when will it be calculated? What is the basis for these calculations at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U49	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U50	Coalition, I can't understand if it's your arrogance or if it's your undervalue complexes... Do not help nearly 100 000 people who are taxpayers of micro-enterprises – it's crazy! In fact, your responsibility now to vote against will be... When you vote against, there will also be if people commit suicide; it will be on your conscience. It will be your conscience if a child is not fed. To you! Just because you show power or your undervalue complexes. This is not the time to show either complex or power. This is the time to help people. And maybe you have to start doing this now – one month after the start of the emergency! – instead of playing their own bureaucratic games again. Vote for, not play games! You're not taking on... more precisely, you do not take responsibility for the fate of people who will immediately remain without income or who are already without income. Are you even ashamed? What are you doing? You were here two years ago, some of you were without income. And who are you now? Ladies, who cannot help their people in an elementary matter – small, minor benefits in an emergency when people have lost their jobs? Well, wake up, coalition! Awake! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U51	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U52	Hello! We have already been hearing about the possibility of paying off benefits for board members for two weeks. For two weeks, neither the crisis management group nor the Cabinet can resolve this. Even the newly appointed Minister for Economic Affairs said yesterday that there was an urgent need to extend the scope of the beneficiaries of the cut-off allowance. It turns out you're deaf and you can't hear that you have to do it... There is absolutely no logic! I know that today the government will encourage you to pay... members of the management board only if they are a micro-enterprises and a member of the management board is a worker at the same time. Please tell me, please – is the simple member of the board of SIA also not an employee if he is not the owner? There is no logic in these decisions at all. I would remind you that everyone has still forgotten about the patent payers. That is not the subject at all. In none of the benefits these people do. They don't exist in our country? In general, what kind of people are there in Latvia? Patent payers, for whom they pay a patent fee to the State, are the only source of income. I ask you to support this proposal because that is what the whole position is supported orally and in contact with society, all of the UK, the CPV LV and so on, who want to pretend to be advocates of people and entrepreneurs on social networks. Well, show it now! Well, vote, please finally on this proposal. Make it easier for the government, which will decide immediately on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U53	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U54	Colleagues! The micro-business tax is an absolutely legal tax. This regulation was adopted during the previous crisis. Yes, perhaps it had to be abolished when we left the previous crisis, but yet the government did not do so at that time. In today's crisis, we want to punish people for having used the absolutely legal form of taxation that micro-enterprises still have today. Think, please, what are you doing... If, of course, you haven't found a way to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U55	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U56	Hello, colleagues! On this micro-enterprises tax, I think everyone knows clearly that it was introduced during the crisis. But I would ask you what are the users of this tax... who currently use it most. We see how domestic production has developed, how various services have developed. What do you really... Entrepreneurs do their job, do not go to municipalities or to the state, do not require benefits, really fight, use this tax regime. There are a lot of success stories, we can be happy for every businessman who, at some point, has managed to break out of this micro-entrepreneur's regime and get into the normal regime. But there are so many people who also earn their bread in this way. Unfortunately, their situation is now the same as it is. But... And they have already been hit by this crisis. The question is for the coalition Members: if the situation is that almost five million have been paid out of this amount of idle benefit, as opposed to the 65 million planned, what is the point of standing now in the position and saying that no one is due? These categories, to which you have just planned, are obviously not able to withdraw this amount, and they can certainly, without even changing anything to the scale planned, be extended to those categories that are most in need at the moment, and micro-enterprises are the category that, already in order to fight, compete in their business, opt for easier treatment. At this point in time of crisis, they are often entrepreneurs who need help, and in this case I do not see any reason not to help them more, given that only five of the 65 million have been paid out. So, colleagues, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U57	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U58	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! With the first steps in terms of economic heating, benefits and otherwise we have entered heavy ears. On the part of the government, absolutely everything has been mixed up. The concept of ‘retire benefit’ is mixed, which would ensure the continuation of entrepreneurship and staff leaving rather than leaving at home. The social benefit, which must be provided at a time when people have to provide basic living and housing, is mixed. There's somewhere in the middle... There's another unemployment benefit. Now we value... In fact, it has been introduced as a social benefit, which is not valued by the employer for any reason. Nonsen! Put together what they have said... Several ministers have said, including Mr Pūce, that it is absolutely unacceptable now to reduce wages in public administration, because this, you understand, will not increase the economy sufficiently, with a reduction in purchasing power and turnover... This applies to public administration, but it does not, of course, apply to private business or micro-enterprises or anything else. There are completely different economic principles! You know... This absurd set can be read in one quote from the Prime Minister appointed by you: “The request for a step-by-step allowance is less than planned, because several companies have found a way to continue their work. Our societies and businesses are extremely viable." You see, with every day and every such, forgive, an idiotic decision, you are creating this gap between you and those people who are now in a real crisis situation. I invite everyone to watch how it works, how these words of the Prime Minister correspond to reality at the moment... Well, let's say, today on Latvian Television... Watch the story with Andris Reizenbergs, owner of the Balsambars, and maybe then something will get clearer for you. It's absurd what you're doing! If we're talking about benefits, this approach... If it's already that it's a social benefit, then it's due to everyone...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U59	Thank you, speaking time is over for the first time. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U60	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues from the coalition! Have you thought about how taxpayers will look at their tax obligations after the crisis is over? Those who have so far paid a fair price to every last penny, including micro-enterprises' tax, how do you think they will continue their work? How do you think they will continue to trust the country that is now turning them back? And this deplorable attitude towards micro-business taxpayers is attitude, state attitude, attitude towards book writers, handicrafters, small entrepreneurs who simply don't... which are simply not oil beneficiaries or empty emulsifiers in some European corridors. They are the workers who are just now... which are discriminated against only because someone in her bubble and orbit, as Mrs. Viņķele said last sitting, feels that if a person already pays little tax, he is a fraudster and he certainly has hidden something under the carpet. Colleagues, this attitude will lead to taxpayers simply not paying taxes because they do not see the meaning of it. Now is the time for the country to show exactly the attitude that taxpayers who have paid their last cents in taxes... that they must help rather than sort out now – 50 percent, 75 percent and so on, and impose any restrictions. You just... You're just gonna let the country down to the clown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U61	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U62	I do not, of course, see all the Members of the Saeima, but only the Members of the New Conservative Party in the Saeima Chamber, and I would like to say one thing: if you, with such love as you during this debate, kept your mobile phones, were to treat the Latvian society, including the taxpayers of micro-enterprises, I think we would get a lot. Because in this way, your love for the palliation – as you do and do not participate in the debate – and you do not explain why you will vote against people – is amazing. Perhaps you should change your priorities. Start to love Latvian society, not your phone screens – sensitive, touch-sensitive... those phones. Stop storing them! Start taking care of people! Start voting for them, not against them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U63	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U64	It is important at these times of crisis – what signals we give to society. That is the signal that we are now sending – go to public administration in the future! You will not even have to come to work, you will be able to sit at home and not work remotely, and you will not change any benefits in your income, but all those who risk, make businesses, generate taxes for the country, take care of your families – we will just throw you into the economy or the world will become more difficult. That is the news that we are sending to the public today.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U65	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U66	Hello, colleagues! We are all given a mandate to take care of our country, our people. Unfortunately, if power is weak, it cannot care for its own people. That is what we see. This is already the second crisis that we are going through, and in this crisis, the power is doing exactly the same as in the previous crisis: the whole gravity of this crisis is trying to shift to those who are least able to stand for themselves. In the previous crisis, they were the pensioners most of all, with which the money collected was saved by Parex banka. In this way, we see the poor, the most affected ones in life, for whom no particular heart hurts. Here it is unnecessary to appeal to the conscience, to understanding, because simply these people, it seems, it is no longer. Because if there were understanding, it would be very simple to understand that in the situation we have created ourselves as a legislator... We have stated that any society must be a board member so that it can function. Very often, these board members are not as leaders in large companies, who sit and simply equip others, but also work on their own. In parallel, they shall work and carry out their duties. Let's take it, even... even a dentist firm in which the member of the board will also be the dentist himself. And now, if he... We can't go right on the teeth, they can't actually work too, and they're losing their source of income. Although they have paid all taxes fairly, they will not be able to receive this benefit. They just don't have to. Is that logical to you? You think that's right? You think that's right? Fair? Smart? At least one of these points you will be voting against this proposal... Please say just one of these arguments! Otherwise, you certainly have no understanding and perhaps no conscience anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U67	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U68	Colleagues, I would ask everyone one question. One question for yourself, which you will answer to a micro-finan, a micro-entrepreneur working in this regime, who has some assets at the moment he is in difficulty. Go on next holidays, of course, with a safe distance to one of the markets, to the Kalnciema quarter market or to a simple market in a city. There are quite a wide range of these micro-enterprises' taxpayers... available. When he has this business done precisely because of this crisis, tell him what to do, look in his eyes and tell him what to do in this situation. What help can he receive from the country? I'll do it again. Of the 65 plans, only five million have been spent. Why would they not qualify for them? I don't understand. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U69	Thank you. I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U70	This is 7. – the proposal of my group of Members, which I have previously mentioned, has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U71	Not supported. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. – the proposal submitted by Members Dombrovskis, Švekova, Pimenova, Lochmeles-Lunovo, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepāja! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U72	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 7: 33, 58, with no abstentions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U73	Thank you. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, 10 Members – Stepanenko, Liepiņa, Smits, Papule, Dombrovskis, Lochmele-Lunova and others – have asked the Saeima, at its extraordinary meeting on 23 April this year, to determine the time of debate on proposals, draft laws and decisions in accordance with the parliamentary order line: five minutes for the first time and two minutes for the second time. I draw attention, however, to the fact that the time for the debate on draft laws at first reading is 15 minutes. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U74	I think, Mrs Mūrniece, you have understood very well what the application is about, and such applications will continue, as they were at the time of the adoption of the budget and also at other times when you were implementing (with you, Mrs Mūrniece)... implementing, in principle, an anti-constitutional, non-democratic process in Parliament on the most important in society (the crucial!) the question of how the assistance will be provided to Latvian society. This is the way you are trying to block the opposition because, as you can see, the position is not going down at all, because they are ashamed to climb into the platform to say that they reject logical proposals that they reject proposals that are aimed at helping people and so on, because they have not managed to figure it out themselves. This is the first. I think I am calling on the whole coalition to listen to and return to the old order, because I have 10 other such applications signed on the table. We'll start the old game if you want to, coalition. I call on you, however, to be those who have read Articles 1 and 2 of the Satversme and call on you to respect the basic features of a democratic parliament, allowing the opposition to speak. The opposition shall take due account of the time allowed for it. As you can see, all members of the opposition do not speak; only part speak... and not all of the proposals. I therefore call for today's decision, which reduced speaking time, to be reviewed and repealed. If you do not, we will continue to submit such requests within a short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U75	So Mr Gobzem has spoken about. I would remind you that, in accordance with the principles of democracy, Members in Parliament take their decisions by a majority... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “In keeping with the Treaty,... So a majority vote. — Dep. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) but we will vote on this proposal. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of fixing, at the extraordinary meeting on 23 April this year, the time for the debate on the proposals for laws and decisions in line with the parliamentary roll of order: five minutes for the first time and two minutes for the second time! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U76	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the time of the debate on the proposals for draft laws and draft decisions, five minutes for the first time, two minutes for the second time: 33, 58, not.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U77	Thank you. So the decision has been made. We are back to the voting time of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The same Members – Linda Liepiņa, Didzis Šmits, Jūlija Stepanenko, Valery Agešins, Evija Papule and others – have submitted an identical proposal to determine the time of the debate: speaking for the first time – five minutes, two minutes – for the second time. Parliament has just decided on this issue. Let us continue with Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U78	Mrs. Moore, I'm on procedure! On the procedure, I can...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U79	No, no. We have decided on this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U80	Mrs Mūrniece, a Member may speak about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U81	Please turn on the microphone for Stein. Let us continue to examine the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U82	So we're at 8. – a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Švekova, Pimenova, Lochmeles-Lunovo, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepiņa. It provides for the addition of a new article to the draft law in the following wording... to supplement Article 14 with the fourth paragraph of the Law in the following wording: “A retirement benefit shall be granted to the persons referred to in the first and third paragraphs of this Article regardless of the amount of tax debts of the applicant, the amount of taxes calculated, the penalties imposed on the employer and the member of the board, the amount of tax due as a result of the audit (audit) to be determined in the state budget in addition to the amounts to be paid or from the amount of tax to be repaid to the state budget.” This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U83	Let's start a debate. Please turn on the microphone for Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U84	Dear colleagues, There are slightly more than 163 thousand businesses in Latvia. Only two thousand (even less) pay more than half of all taxes. Two thousand out of 163. But the rest of it is... About 160,000, working at approximately 400 thousand people in Latvia. They pay, yes, relatively little tax in general, if they look alone. A large number of them have not even reported employees at all, or very few employees, but they create jobs at least for themselves and sometimes also for their family members. If we now sort out in such a crisis situation... There is no normal situation at the moment, there is a crisis situation. If we sort out – you are good, you have paid us enough, but you – no, we don't want to give you a break benefit and sufficient resources to feed your children and feed the family, then that's the message we say to 400 thousand people in Latvia: we don't need or need very little at this moment. I think this is a very bad signal to the public. Especially because we have borrowed EUR 2.6 billion, we are planning to borrow two more. Then, if you do not support this proposal, you say that we are going to spend this debt on the needs and expenditure of public administration, not on society, not on business, not on people working in the private sector, who are paying taxes just a little but not on them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U85	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U86	Highly honored...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U87	There is also a request to combine the two times of the debate. Do Members have objections? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U88	Yes, my dear colleagues, I guess I'll repeat it again... What was said earlier... There's two in the Treasury, a comma, as far as it's... EUR 4 billion. Prime Minister Kariņš told all Latvians some time ago that we... How was it... so much money as never had... or something like that. When the government itself, your government, colleagues, decided on cut-off benefits, it was planned that EUR 65 million would be paid out within one month. In reality, less than EUR 5 million have been paid out over a month. The State Revenue Service, colleagues, carries the cost at about 200 thousand euros a day. Let's compare you, colleagues! The city of Berlin... I'm not talking about Germany... The city of Berlin, with a population about twice as high as in Latvia, paid EUR 1.3 billion for small businesses and self-employed people, in a few days – within a few days! – processing 140 thousand applications. It's just for you to have something to think about. You, my colleagues, have created a situation where, for some reason, an employee who has lost his job for objective reasons, not because he has done or has not done something, because he has not worked well, but because of objective reasons because there is a pandemic because the borders are closed because there is social distance... You're now... The retirement benefit of this employee depends on, forgive, some razborks between the State Revenue Service and the employer of this employee, on whether or not the employer has submitted reports in good time, and other criteria. Now it looks like the State Revenue Service, colleagues, it would be Christmas time that the State Revenue Service can finally play its part for all employers whose activities or omissions were not satisfied by the State Revenue Service for some reason. But what about the staff here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Colleagues, why do employees suffer from this? I just read the news... Colleagues, look at the news. I recently heard Mr. Reisenberg, a bartender who received the world's best bartender title, say that he stays behind the side that he has been thrown out of the boat. You let him out of the boat, colleagues! You! And you are now patiently refusing to help him and several tens of thousands of other people simply because they were not... You who...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U89	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U90	Colleagues, what I want to say – only people who never, I won't even say – have not worked, who understand anything from business at all weakly, only such people may feel that tax debt is something wow... Some sort of final sin. Tax debt is an absolutely normal phenomenon in business. Such debts arise according to seasonality, depending on the business plans, development and so on, including demand and purchasing power of people. Like this... There are so many of these reasons. Neither is there an extraordinary phenomenon... Some penalties, where our State Revenue Service is an absolute champion in imposing penalties on business... The penalty can be earned for anything. Neither is it a secret that these long procedures exist between... Well, let's say, litigation. State Revenue Service and Entrepreneurs... When a businessman wants to prove his fairness and the State Revenue Service uses state resources without limit to judge with businessmen to the end. Consequently, only people who do not have any understanding of entrepreneurship are able to set such a framework for getting cut-off benefits. It is regrettable that you, my coalition colleagues, have become those who feel that money is growing in trees and that only you have a magic charge that you have to open and get from. You have forgotten that entrepreneurs who you are addressing today place money in this stack. Well...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U91	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U92	I wanted to supplement Linda Liepiņš – it is not a magic charge but a Pandora charge that they are now making open... The entire coalition. All people must be helped. If you don't understand, coalition... By helping all people with the tombs with which you are helping, those tombs will be back to the economy tomorrow. You don't understand the basic economic pattern? People spend it in the store, in petroltank and so on, eating it for your tiny benefits. Just help people! Mrs Mūrniece, I would call for compliance with the law, because you too, Mrs Mūrniece, will fall from your throne if you continue to violate the law!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U93	I call on you to debate the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U94	I call upon you to observe the law... I call on you to respect...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U95	And follow the turn of the Saeima. Turn off the microphone for Member Gobzem. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U96	Hello, fellow Members, again! Entrepreneurship is nothing simple. It's a very serious activity, too, and people who do it... Statistics already show that the challenges they face can be very different. Indeed, there is a seasonal nature, there are various falls, there are investments to be made, and there are various burdens that can lead to some point in time... It may be that you may be punished by a tax debt, but this "education" from the state at this point in time, in my opinion, is simply deplorable. Well, how can you imagine bringing entrepreneurs up for the moment that they have not paid the tax in due time? Well, I'm sorry, these borrowed funds are currently being invested in companies like airBaltic, which is a state-owned company. Large companies, which are also important, of course, but that is a small part. However, there are a whole range of entrepreneurs who then borrow these loans with their tax... Paying taxes will be forced to return. Here, too, we have to think about... if we look at limiting the pandemic... If a businessman sees today that he has a tax debt and simply has no other way of saving his business, just as he continues to do, I think he will try to continue this activity in any possible way without complying with the rules that are important at the moment to stop the pandemic. Searching for tax evasion, looking for ways to circumvent the law, and in this way the country will lose more than it will gain. In contrast to all this, we see really huge loans and we do not see the reality of how entrepreneurship is formed at all, but we do the "education" of entrepreneurs at the very time when this is least to be done. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U97	Thank you. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U98	Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U99	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U100	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I am trying to understand why the coalition Members are so stingy in their conviction that they can still save in this pandemic crisis. You stick to the philosophy of old economics – monetaryism. But we are now in a crisis situation. We need to spend to keep the economy in order to help our fellow people. I think you all know what deflation is. Deflation is a reduction in prices, and I guess you are not voting in favour of the opposition proposals because you think that after a month or two, who are on the hunger line, it will be happy to get as much as EUR 50 and EUR 100, and why should they now pay EUR 200 or more? You are now doing exactly what increases deflation in our country. People leave purchases, save on apartment payments and so on. This means that the economy will also fall behind. What are you doing now? You promote deflation, promote economic stagnation. It seems like you have to do the opposite. It is necessary to expand the range of beneficiaries of support, so that people of micro-enterprises and SIA receive the same money as others. It seems to be purely logical. I have a proposal to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U101	Are there any objections if Member Didji Schmidt brings together the two speaking times? There is no objection. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U102	Thank you. Maybe a little bit more about what we're doing here. We're leaving the allowance by definition... of substance... have not begun to implement and pay. This is a social benefit. The idea of a cut-off benefit, which, by the way, arose in the previous crisis, but was not heard at all, is that the state and the company benefit... for one, not to pay the full unemployment benefit; for the other, not to lose employees at the prescribed time, and so they, together, cooperate to pay one part, and for the other part, keep people in work until it is possible to turn the economy to the full again. There is no such approach at all. There is a social approach here. What Dana Reizniece-Ozola said that two thousand companies pay half of the taxes and seven thousand companies – almost all of the taxes – is nothing unusual. Because these micro... small businesses... Their aim and idea is essentially not to increase the Treasury's revenue or budget revenue; their task is to secure their own family and circular economy. At present, they understand, of course, that they are taking on certain risks and that some savings must be made, because their pensions and all other social support will never be as high as those of others. But this crisis is not a crisis of any wrong decision for every individual or company. This is... Let's say... These are the conditions of war. This is a war with a virus that affects everyone in the same way, and during the war it does not sort out, which is more intelligent or risky decision made or not. Everyone is affected. We all have to go together. It would still be very good that we all go along with an economy that can quickly export at a time when again there will be a chance for those who do not currently have. But by sorting people according to the choice he made... Once again, if you went into business, you made bad choices. If you decided to be an official, that was the right and good choice. Where are we going? We will not have revenues at all soon after this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U103	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U104	Your decisions are economically illiterate and proof of this is very simple. Do not help people today in their daily consumption and in fact do not contribute to everyday consumption for the whole of Latvian society, you are trying your own economies in an even deeper crisis, and you do not need higher economic education to understand it. I can only repeat it. Maybe it's time for you to change, and maybe it's time for you to start helping others, not just before the elections, but when you need to help. And it is essential to help everyone today, regardless of who has paid or not paid, submitted or failed to submit a report. All Latvian society needs our Head of State... your coalitions...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U105	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U106	Request to unite the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U107	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U108	Can I talk?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U109	We hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U110	People have become hostages to the situation. Those employees who are actually in an idle situation are in total uncertainty whether the employer has submitted an application to the SRS for the payment of a idle benefit to its employees. In turn, the SRS does not publish a list of enterprises that have submitted this request, but only one list of those to which this benefit has been granted. I received a lot of applications from people like “Fly”. The employees of the company “Lido” only received proof yesterday that they would still receive the idle allowance. All the workers in the previous three weeks were in absolute uncertainty as to whether they would receive this money or not. I would remind you that an alternative for these people would go to the unemployed exchange, but they will only receive the unemployment benefit from the date of the application. This ignorance, these days and weeks when the employee is unconscious, is simply terrible for a particular person and for his family. Talking about alternatives. If we had, forgive me, a normal government minister for prosperity who could... who would really care for people and who could explain that the death benefit is not an alternative to social assistance. On the contrary – we are offered that the only alternative... crisis benefit, where state permissions to pay people... pay the municipality €40. Well, it's not funny, it's even... it's, in my opinion, a crime in the field of social assistance. When we tell people... Even the Prime Minister says that there is as much money as we never had, and we are proud of having 2.5 billion at our disposal... And let me say that the crisis benefit in Latvia during the world crisis is 40 euros from the state – it is simply indescribable in words. I am asking very much for support for this proposal. Do not, please, make people hostage to the situation and government illogical decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U111	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U112	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if we have a break, somehow we are... We're being kept in the dark right now. I hope that you will resolve this, Mrs Murniece. But, speaking of the proposal, I call on you to support this proposal, thinking about entrepreneurs now and in the future, because it is clear that the wave of bankruptcy will not make yourself wait. In view of the fact that not all companies are granted extension aid (a way in which the businessman could also pay off the debts that will have accumulated over this period of time rather high), we must not hold the company's employees hostage in a situation in which employees are not to blame, they have fulfilled their obligations, and the business operator is also a hostage in a very large number of situations. There are very different business stories about these situations, about debts, and there are also mistakes of the State Revenue Service... also communication errors, so this proposal would also solve a situation in which a large number of entrepreneurs have reached. It's not... It's not like, for example, I don't know, the European money that you are... what you are proud of right now. It is also just a loan, and it will have to be repaid, and not you will have to return it, not all officials who are now proud of that success story will have to return it from their pocket, it will have to be returned to entrepreneurs when paying taxes. Help entrepreneurs to stay alive in this situation, do not kill business, do not kill entrepreneurs and please understand...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U113	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Feldman, Jušas, Butāns, Mārtovas and Budriks are asking to continue the Saeima sitting until 12 noon and then to announce a break. So a 30 - minute break is scheduled at 12.00. The debate has not been taken on board... So the word for Member Viktor Valaini in the debate for the second time. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U114	Yes, I very much like the wish of its Members to continue and to work in this sitting, and I would also call on all the Members of the Saeima, especially the coalition Members, to really start working for this sitting of the Saeima and not just to vote. This proposal... I think there are a lot of people who follow the process of examining this proposal and hope to expect at least some clarification as to how it will really be, or whether there is some (at least) hope that this proposal will be taken into account at some point and put into practice, so I would call on the coalition representatives in particular... And now, where, just Feldman, Jurash signed something that they're ready to work... then finally start working and make some clarification from your own side. You will vote immediately, most probably against this proposal, then explain why you will vote against this proposal! Explain that it is clear to everyone, especially those who are responsible – YOUNG Unity, KPV LV (you have the Minister for Economics) – explain what these policies will be! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U115	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr. Stein is... Is There a Explanation?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U116	In the Commission, this proposal, 8 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U117	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. – the proposal submitted by Members Dombrovskis, Švekova, Pimenova, Lochmeles-Lunovo, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepāja! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U118	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 8: 33, 57 and 57 is not there.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U119	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U120	9. is a editorial proposal by the Legal Office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U122	10. is a proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides for the addition of Article 18 of the Law with the sixth paragraph, in the following wording: ‘The public-owned and public-private-capital companies subject to the Law on the Management of Public Persons’s Shares and Capital Companies shall be entitled to convene a meeting of members (shareholders) in order to approve the annual report of the capital company and the consolidated annual report for the accounting year 2019, within a period exceeding three months of the period laid down in Article 54 of the Law on the Management of Public Persons’s Shares and Capital Companies.’ This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U124	11. is a editorial proposal of the Legal Office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U126	12. is a proposal of Members Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Vucana, Augiņa, Liepāja, Stepanenko, which provides for the addition of Article 39 of the law: “During the period of validity of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the exceptional situation in the country due to the spread of Covid-19, employees, as defined in Article 2 of the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions, where due to an exceptional situation such employees have ceased to be employed (an employer does not employ an employee or does not perform the activities necessary to accept the employee’s performance), during the period of limitation, compensation up to 75 % of the monthly gross salary, but not less than the minimum wage established in the State may be established.” This proposal, 12, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U127	Let's start a debate. Are there any objections that Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis brings together the two speaking times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U128	Dear colleagues, In such a situation, I would not normally support the sending of such people out of the way, the reduction in pay, and so on. However, colleagues, let us look at what is happening in Latvia. We have de facto formed two groups of citizens. One group is those working in public administration, the public sector. These people, despite the fact that it is absolutely clear that the volume of work for many (not all, but many of them) has decreased objectively, they are working at a distance, it is possible that its work is much less, but none of them is sent in any way. They do not have a reduction in their remuneration. And then there's a second group, colleagues - those who work in the private sector with private employers, who are sent out de facto, who lose their jobs, who have a reduced salary and for whom the state (we are talking about this very much and widely today)... and to which the State does not, by its nature, grant sufficient support. But, colleagues, especially the Cabinet of Ministers, there is still written “One law, one justice for all”. Either then, colleagues, we are giving adequate support, the same to people in the public sector and those working in the private sector, or we are extending the same playing field to those working in the public sector. Perhaps it will also help them to figure out, administer, carry out correctly as necessary, including benefits for people working in the private sector. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U129	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U130	Colleagues, whatever we want, have developed such two levels in Latvia. There is Latvia that is in crisis, and there is Latvia that is not in crisis. And unfortunately, regardless of how you look at it, public administration is now showing everything that there is no crisis, and this issue does not apply to them at all. Now let's take the field of education. In the field of education, training is currently carried out at a distance, teaching takes place at home and, of course, there are not only teachers, there are different employees working to keep these buildings in order to... librarians and many other employees... there are a whole range of public administration staff who are simply now also... de facto they are idle. And this proposal, as has already been mentioned here, is that it can be set (it is not obliged to do so, it is imposed... ) the possibility that this here can be determined... reduction of the early retirement allowance. No one has the opportunity to reduce this at the moment. And here's a story about saving public money. We're very generous right now... We only hear that we borrow. The figures are simply huge – billion, two billion, three billion, four billion! But we don't have any bits – no bits!... With the exception of the purchase of the Saeima flowers and still these missions, the cancellation of the Song Festival... Well, it's a joke! The big picture remains intact at the moment. Public administration works as if not... There is no crisis at all. And then the question is, let's accept it if from... a number of employees who are currently out of work... even an elementary situation – there are kindergarten teachers... Those who are at home receive as much as those who work. Well, we can build on this, but if it is in the longer term, this approach is not the right, bad signal on the part of public administration, very bad!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U131	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U132	Good afternoon, everybody! I would like to say that the top officials of Latvia have repeatedly noted that Latvia is choosing Scandinavian development model. And the Scandinavian development model is based on and based on the fundamental values of high solidarity, social cohesion and social support. Its core values in this case are also the overall responsibility of the company in times of crisis and forsmergorisation – a fall in income, a fall in entrepreneurship, and a partial responsibility of the public administration... exactly those who are also currently in the idle... reducing the amount of income they had so far in the normal economic situation and ensuring balance with those people who remained unemployed, not because of their own fault or will, but because of the economic and crisis... Because of a pandemic. We see that the pandemic affected small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed, the patent payers very widely. Indeed, these are the people who ensured their lives and existence, and wages and also tax payments – even minimal, but ensured. Now it happens that the State is pursuing a segregation policy when it says that those who have taught themselves to serve and ensure themselves – they receive a chapel, or at all, refuse them a violation or insufficient level, or their benefits or support is out of hand because of the criterion. But those working in the public administration who are absent from the crisis are not responsible, but they do not bear any responsibility, including material, for securing and supporting the rest of society. I think if we look at...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U133	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U134	Thank you. Hello! I do not support this proposal and I would like to clarify it. There are three reasons for this. First of all, it is not an unemployment benefit. The retirement allowance is not assistance for the employee, but assistance for the company. The State is setting up funds and helping to maintain economic activity in a company in which Covid-19 cannot be remunerated for its employees. However, the administrator does not need such assistance, as the State already ensures its activity. Secondly, this proposal inevitably becomes a means of reducing the salary of an employee of a public authority. At present, the public authority's administrator may or may not be in doubt if he wants to reduce the employee's salary. If this proposal becomes the norm, it will be read unequivocally – no doubt, the fired is provided with a safety cushion. This proposal is becoming even more provocative in today's context, with unemployment rising and possibly continuing to grow and fewer options for employee choice. And thirdly. Economists in the world are increasingly emphasising the need to increase market demand in times of economic downturn in order to motivate domestic entrepreneurship and thus increase the income of buyers. This is also about allocating a basic income package to every fellow citizen. With this proposal, which we are now examining, we are moving in the opposite direction, so this proposal can be just harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U135	The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U136	Yeah, thank you. I believe that today the government and the parliament need to think more about people and no matter where they work – in the municipality, in public work or in the private segment. And that is why I am strongly against this proposal. Because today we're like a country... their loyal people who work in a municipality or a public institution need to help out of that crisis because they, perhaps their friends, acquaintances, family members are in the private segment that is under great threat today. That's the first. Second. State and municipal employees are not out of work. Many institutions, such as Parliament, introduced some other regimes, working visits, and these people work away from home. That's the first. And second – maybe if there's no possibility as the organizer of work for a state or municipal institution to organise a safe working environment, then there's a request to work one or one of the employees to be at home, and so, well, it turns out that... If the State and the municipality, when introducing quarantine, ask otherwise to behave with the employees, at this point in time, to reduce their remuneration – this is not correct. You understand, public and municipal authorities were already unable to compete with their salaries, and we very often lost people, they went to the private sector. And today, as our defenders... State and local authorities... workers need to be protected from crises so that they do not give up their labour supply or enter the free market. You know, our qualified decisions depend on those people behind us who work alongside us. And today we, as organisers of work, need to take more care of them, and today we can no longer talk about reducing their pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U137	Are there any objections if Member Gobzem combines the two speaking times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U138	Maybe this one, fellow Members, will make you open your eyes. A few minutes ago, I received the following letter: “Hello! I understand that, in this situation, I do not have to turn to, because bureaucracy has killed me and is smacking me. I'm an employee of a medical institution. I work in a company that's out of business right now. I was hoping I'd get my final benefit because I've paid taxes, really high taxes, like a company. This is when I was waiting for my country to come to help me, but... (multipoint) bureaucracy. I can't get a drop-out benefit because I also have the status of an individual trader that has not been used personally. I have not received income through this status for years. I work in general tax treatment. I understand now that I am more than a month old, but I will not receive public support because of bureaucracy, because I am not interested in anyone." And then. ‘ I raise the child alone, the payments will not stay, and the child will want to eat. The child needs medication. I can't eat myself for a while, but what can I tell the little child? What to do? All this is absurd. Where is the promised help for the population? This is an helpful cry, because I really do not know what to do and where to turn to for help. The crisis did not knock at the door and did not shout: “Change the job or anything else!” “And such letters are regular, but you’re playing coalition games, because it’s easy for you to put your assistants in a “Your Class” project for five thousand or so. You have your own wages. We're all good. But the man who's left out of work... you play games. And then laugh on a break. How do you see that opposition again... I don't think it's the right time. It seems to me that this is not the time to share people. This time is to help them. Perhaps after that letter, please change your attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U139	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U140	Colleagues, the task of ingenuity. I allow you to mention three times. Where are Latvia's higher salaries – in public administration or in the private sector? The public administration has higher salaries – about a fifth higher salaries. I think that a prosperous state can live if the private sector earns more than public administration. Because public administration, together with stable wages, also has stable social guarantees, less risk. The entrepreneur is forced to eat the risk every day. The nature of this proposal, as I say, is not an admirable one, because it can be seen as an element of punishment for those working in the public administration. But in a situation where we are not able to support minimum soft pay for the private sector, in a situation where we are still (a month and a half have already passed)... We still have no fundamental review of public administration spending, and we live like times of peace, such as those of high age. We have not reduced almost nothing, except the cost of missions, where you simply cannot leave. We have not even limited representation costs for ourselves and are still really ordering flowers. This is not correct. And this proposal provides for greater flexibility if a person does not work or works much less in public administration than in the normal situation – that there would also be an opportunity to reduce remuneration. But it's not meant as a punishment mechanism. It is meant to be a proposal for some kind of fair treatment to the others, who are now, to a large extent, even starting to run teeth at the same time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U141	I closed the debate. Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission, what is to be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U142	In the Commission, this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U143	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. – Member Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Vucana, Planta, Liepiņa, Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U144	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Outcome of the vote on proposal 12: 15, 66, abstention: 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U145	Thank you. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, It is time for a statement. Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U146	Respected and... Respected and respected members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! 12.10 Meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U147	Thank you. Interruption until 12.35. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U148	Dear colleagues, I call for seats in the Chambers. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has also completed its work. We can go on with the Saeima sitting. On the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U149	Welcome again. So we're left at 13. – a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying the previously approved provision. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U151	Also 14 is the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which calls for the... The legal bureau calls for clarification of terminology. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U153	15. is the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which lays down a statutory provision... this proposal... The provision in this proposal is technically clarified so that it is clearer, specifying that the restriction applies to the totality of all types of investments in instruments of this type. In the Commission this proposal, 15, is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U155	16. There is also the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which clarifies the rule and ensures that it is applied more clearly, also taking into account the recommendations of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. This proposal, 16, has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U157	17. – The legal bureau proposal is supported and included in proposal 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U159	18. – the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which provides for clarification in the legal provision in order to provide clearer conditions for its application. The proposal incorporates the comments of the Legal Bureau. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U161	19. is the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepiņa to amend Rule 51. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U162	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U163	Dear colleagues, I understand that, over time, it was also in the Commission that this article was subsequently amended and the Commission's proposal then goes on. But, unfortunately, I must say that we were witnesses of a rather unhappy act by an insurer's representative, and Mr Abashin in particular wrote a number of letters in such a way as not to fall into a tone on the Commission as to how he could even dare to make such an amendment. And it is about the fact that the owner of the vehicle is thus able to stop the vehicle from running for that time without having to hand over the number plates, without paying this operating tax, or even stopping it (A sound breakdown.) ... to clarify these rules, which take place when the OCTA Treaty is suspended and how this Treaty is renewed, we tabled more precise amendments. And, of course, we were right in front of us immediately because we didn't know that there was some agreement that this article was not being looked at at at at at all. This is not really the right thing to do on the part of insurers. And what do we want to point out? There is a need, of course, to regulate the suspension of the insurance contract, and there are still a number of problems that are also related to vehicles for the carriage of passengers, and we will also make certain amendments to this issue, as a number of legislative shortcomings are identified (in case of re-purchase of a passenger card... in that case the insurance contract also does not end in itself by law, but should not be because it is a failure of the law). We will therefore also ask for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U164	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U165	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U166	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. – the proposal submitted by Members Stepanenko, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepāja! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U167	Dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 19: 25, 55, abstaining - is absent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U168	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U169	20. is a proposal from Members Lejny, Kirštein, Nemir, Voika and Eglīks, which provides for the exclusion of the words ‘or the National Technical Supervision Agency’ in the first paragraph of Article 51. Proposal supported, included 22. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U171	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – Finance Minister Reira's proposal is partly supported, included 22. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U172	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U173	22. is a proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides for the wording of Rule 51 in Article 5 of the draft law. The aim of the proposal is to establish a framework allowing vehicle owners to cease registration on a simplified basis without the need to place their vehicle numbers on the market during an emergency and up to three months after the end of the period, and to provide for a special regulation on the temporary termination of an OCTA contract for commercial operators. In the Commission, this proposal, 22, is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U175	23. There is a Member Valaiņa's proposal to add Article 52 of the draft law... Article 52 of the Law, with the following sentence: ‘In the case of municipalities, the provisions of Article 56 of the Law on the State Budget for 2020 shall not apply to the implementation of this Article.’ This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U176	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U177	24. – The legal office proposal is a terminology clarification. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U179	25. – the proposal of Minister of Finance Reira. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U180	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U181	26. – the proposal of Finance Minister Reira is a editorial clarification. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U183	27. is a Member Valaiņa's proposal, which provides for the addition of Article 53 with a sentence: ‘In the case of municipalities, the provisions of Article 56 of the Law on the State Budget 2020 shall not apply to the implementation of this Article.’ This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U184	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U185	28. – The Legal Bureau proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U187	29. – The proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides for the addition of Article 55 in the following wording: ‘For the duration of this Law, the State and local authorities shall be entitled to pay financing to associations and foundations with which a contract for the financing, participation or delegation of projects for the provision of services and the implementation of other activities has been concluded, even if the exceptional situation makes it impossible to provide or implement them. The State and local authorities shall assess the impact of the idle on the financial flows of the service provider or project implementer and determine the extent to which payment for the idle period will be made.” The proposal provides for the right to grant to institutions which have concluded contracts for the provision of services and the implementation of activities with associations and foundations... allowing organisations and institutions to adapt to the situation rather than stopping or freezing projects due to the crisis. In the Commission, this proposal, 29, is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U189	30. – the proposal of Members Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Liepiņa, Stepanenko and Bergmanis, which intends to supplement the draft law with a new article in the following wording: "( 1) A company which receives a retirement allowance in connection with Covid-19 is entitled to share work between all employees of the company. The company shall provide the tax administration with information on any penalties imposed on employees who are out of work and on their work. (2) The grant of the cut-off benefit and the assessment of the firm’s fall in turnover shall take account of the natural increase in the size of the business.’ In the Commission, this proposal, 30, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U190	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U191	Colleagues! In fact, there are two important parts of this proposal. The first part would provide an opportunity for an entrepreneur to share work between his employees if, at the moment, the amount of activity has fallen rapidly and the entrepreneur has a stop but has the possibility to work part of the employees. It seems to me a welcome idea, which the entrepreneurs themselves have encouraged from their own point of view – to allow them to perform rotations within the limits of their employees, in such a way as to break down their job duties and provide income to their employees in a joint and several way, instead of simply releasing them and placing them on unemployment benefits. The entrepreneurs have asked for a solution to this issue, and I also call on you, fellow Members in the Saeima, to support this proposal. The second part relates to cases where the company has grown rapidly over the last year, and if, last March, he... it did not have a turnover or a very small turnover, but at the beginning of this year it was large and in March and now, in April, it dropped sharply, and then, from the point of view of the SRS, no break-even benefit would be due to the increase in turnover against March of the previous year. There are quite a lot of such cases, not only with fast-growing companies, but also, for example, with specific cases in the hospitality sector. If, in March last year, a company that has been operating since 2009, pays taxes (and not small), has stopped its hotel operations to carry out repairs and there is no turnover, this year, of course, works and the drop in turnover is two thirds compared to the beginning of the year, then such a company will not be entitled to a cut-off allowance under the existing rules. This proposal is perhaps not ideally formulated, but to deal with such cases.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U192	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U193	Yes, my colleagues, I would like to say that there are major problems with this regulation of idles in general, for which we are trying here to find hearing ears all morning. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Commission, the finance minister, Reir, said that today Mrs Jaunzems will tell the government what are the problems why these idle benefits are being refused, and it is clear that this regulation needs to be changed. And I just want to point out once again the main problems that people are writing today – that is, the regulation of the down. It's still being thought... considered also maintenance of businesses for life, or simply economic activity is zero, but communication with clients is taking place... For example, in tourist firms, where it is necessary to communicate with these customers, to even agree on how money will be paid back or already booked trips will be replaced by others, and communication, in my view, is zero on turnover. It cannot in any way be regarded as an economic activity. It is also in its own way of ending, where these companies do not receive any income, but they must continue to carry out some absolutely necessary activities so that this company does not go through the bubble at all, but the State Revenue Service does not consider doing such activities to be an option at present. There are many such absurd situations. In my opinion, criteria which simply cannot be technically met should also not be taken into account, for example, if the company has not done so last... economic activity in March last year, then there may not be a fall in turnover compared to a month where there was no turnover at all. I hope that Mrs. Jaunzemes will have enough knowledge to get the government not only to tell about these problems today, but also to have some sort of solution immediately...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U194	Thank you. Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U195	Yes, colleagues, one of the main elements of this proposal, as Dana has already said, is its two parts. One part is about those employees... Either, for example, this proposal has been made together with those entrepreneurs who are currently in idle mode. And one example. Schools working in the catering sector... Now, this is a holiday... Well, so that entrepreneurs in school canteens... for them, this problem is very topical. And there's a situation where part of the employees still work (and it's good that part of the employees have opportunities to work), and at the time they do it, those who are idle, these incomes are lower. And, of course, there is a tension. If the company has 100, 200 employees, then tension arises. Fifty work and receive more pay, and 150 sits at home and gets less. And in two weeks it is possible to rotate. Fraud can be avoided. It's all easy to administer, it's just necessary to want it. This proposal provides for this possibility. I would invite my colleagues to support you. Of course, the second section is even more dramatic. Imagine the situation, colleagues: there is, for example... You're selling books. In March last year, you sold 10 books, this February, let us assume, there is a situation where you already sell 100 books, and in the context of this crisis, your... these amounts are falling, let's say, 70 per cent. And theoretically, before last year, you trade three times more books than it was last year. Despite the fact that 70 percent of your turnover drop you have at this point. For such companies... that too is quite a lot, and these are our success stories, when they are hit by the crisis... they are not in any way assisted by the State. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U196	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U197	Colleagues, one example. You probably all know a company like Impro Travel. I quote: “We have today received a waiver from 11 employees with reasonable grounds: if we employ a staff member (to contact customers), then we carry out our economic activity at a time when it is not possible at all. In a phone conversation with Rasma Balga, Head of Business Control Division Three, the person said that we could organize trips in Latvia. To the argument that it is impossible... then you can organize individual trips in Latvia. If this is the attitude towards a company that paid tax last year 628 010 euros, it's nothing other than ridicule.” ( End quoted) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U198	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U199	I think that our colleagues quoted and explained very clearly that during the crisis there is no reason to share the best, worst, more profitable or less profitable entrepreneurs. The time of the crisis is a time when everyone who has suffered from the crisis must be helped. And almost everyone, with the exception of very few sectors, suffers from the crisis. And this time is... I find it difficult to say that, but this is the time in which you stop only when you have to speak publicly about the procurement of flowers, Mrs Mūrniece, and not when you yourself have the will to stop them. And maybe that you still need to get and help people understand that in the future they will have an incentive to pay taxes to the Latvian state. Please again – help everyone! All inhabitants of Latvia – without distinction. That is the only right way. There's no other way. It does so in a developed world. It does so in democrats – in Germany, America, Canada and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U200	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U201	In the Commission, this proposal, 30, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U202	Please call me! We will vote for 30. – An offer from Members Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Liepiņa, Stepanenko and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U203	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 30: 29, 53, abstaining - is absent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U204	Colleagues, I draw attention to the fact that we voted on proposal 31 if.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U205	No, about 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U206	About 30. About 30? Yeah, thank you. So we voted in favour of the 30th proposal. And the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U207	31. is the proposal of the Members Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Valaiņa, Dūklava, Liepaja, Stepanenko, Bergmanis and Augulis, which intends to supplement the law with a new article in the following wording: “( 1) SJSC “Latvian State Radio and Television Centre” for the period until the end of 2020 shall refuse to levy broadcasting fees from the public electronic media as well as from commercial electronic media that have acquired the right to distribute television programmes for free terrestrial broadcasting.” ... and also the second paragraph of the Article of the Law. In the Commission this proposal, 31, is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U208	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U209	32. – The proposal of Members Stepanenko, Papule, Lochmeles-Luniv, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmana, Vucana, Liepaja, Gobzema and Dombrovskis to supplement the draft law with a new article in the following wording: “( 1) For as long as the emergency situation declared in the country has ceased in the presence of the learning process, to determine that all learners who have received education on the spot until the emergency situation has been declared must be provided with state aid for catering in accordance with the procedure laid down in Section 14(44) of the Education Law and the related Cabinet of Ministers Regulations.” Also: “( 2) to ensure the Cabinet of Ministers grant to municipalities until 2019/2020. at the end of the school year for the catering of learners who receive basic education programmes in classes 1, 2, 3 and 4, irrespective of the form or location of the education of the said learners, establishing that the amount of state budget funds at municipal education institutions is 0.71 euro per day.’ ... and other explanatory notes. In the Commission this proposal, 32, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U210	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U211	Hello! Thank you. The Commission's rejection of me is, of course, to some extent surprising, even though Mrs Viņķele, who represented the government in our discussions last time, I particularly ask you to look at this issue further or to correct the respective order of the Cabinet of Ministers once again. Then I believe that the Saeima is obliged to correct the mistakes of the Cabinet of Ministers' order and restore the holidays, as already stipulated by the... both regulatory and access to finance... restore all 1-4. for Class 1 pupils regardless of their status, whether or not granted. If ISM probably (and with the news from the Cabinet of Ministers) has spent this food money for some other needs, I also forget about special education children who are currently at home and not at an educational institution, then – I repeat again! – It is our duty to correct this error and ensure equal treatment, equal access for all students in grades 1 to 4, as well as the municipalities are likely to provide it at the moment. But I would point out that the local government is based on the bureaucratic order on catering... if you can say so, allow it to live its life, is not considered to be possible but used for catering (regardless of the declared place, regardless of status)... used for catering in the municipality budget. In my opinion, this is not adequate and cannot be tolerated. If the State has provided for such funding, all 1-4 will be eligible in a crisis situation, also taking into account the exclusion of late payments. paediatric patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U212	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U213	Dear colleagues, This specific treatment of the law, taking advantage of the possibility of an emergency and that the Education Law provides that catering should be provided for all students who learn educational programmes on the ground, I think there is such a great folly. Because trying to save on... including children with disabilities, which is the greatest overall shame... and I have evidence that I have been written by very many parents, both in Riga and in other regions, to which the municipality simply cannot provide catering, because the municipality is not allowed to do so. It shall not be allowed for the municipality to spend these funds on groups other than those specified in the Cabinet Order. Hence, families of many children, the needy and the needy. And you've forgotten about children with disabilities who have also learned an education program on the spot. If someone tries to object and say that, now, children are placed in parental care and it is similar, for example, to school holidays, then it's... It's a nightmare, it's really a nightmare, so... they are a great mistake, because children are currently learning a full-scale education programme, parents are trying to help them, as far as possible, by combining their work from home if they still have one, together with learning a children's education programme, and local government and state support... and the state's attempt to save on children's weekends is more than indecent, because the children are due to this holiday in accordance with the law. And the fact that children cannot learn this curriculum in person is neither a choice for children nor a choice for children's families. This is an exceptional situation that...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U214	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U215	Perhaps I will continue to read about this subject in the letters that I receive. ‘ Hello! It is not typical for me to write or complain, but it is high time. I'm the mother of two children. And there's a category of people (in which I get in) who have passed their decree leave, but they can't go back to work because of the crisis. That is also my option. One child is four years old, and the other child remained one and a half. I can take a short while between the two decrees ’ holidays, and logically, this decree’s leave did not provide me with a full income. As a result, I cannot get back to work today and I cannot get my severance grant. I cannot feed the children accordingly either. What do I do?” And that's a question for you, coalition! This is a question for you, Mrs Mūrniece, and for you, Mr Jušas, and Mr Feldman, for you, and Mrs Zalīte-Gross, also for you, whose husband receives “Your Class” in a project of five thousand euros in public procurement without competition. It is also a question for you. You can, of course, be happy... and you too, Mr Znotiņš, as Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, where you are assisted by the husband of Mrs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U216	Please return to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U217	... How to help... How do you help these people...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U218	Mr Gobzem, come back to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U219	... including... This is about the proposal. It's about how you people... how you feed them, Mrs. Moore! That's what we're about in the last month...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U220	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U221	Dear colleagues, I invite you to think about the following. So there are people who have lost their jobs. You say that these people are allowed to pay a minimum amount, now there will be a new decision – 130 euros. Before that, Ieva Jaunzeme was almost proud of the fact that the smallest is four euros or something around it. Then you're saying you're gonna pay the kids... for each child EUR 50. It shall not be based on any calculation. At the same time, government regulations, for example, say, where people pay alimony, one child is, so to speak, estimated to be a minimum... may not pay less than EUR 107, where perhaps there has been some assessment. And now you want to take out the money that is usually paid for eating your children. At the same time, colleagues, you have kept all the costs of its representation and you will soon be voting in accordance with the discipline of your coalition against the proposal to remove the costs of its representation. Now think about it, please! How's that? As state officials, including Mrs. Mūrniece, are its monthly allowances – 1000 euros for representation costs! Excuse me, what representation?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What are the representation costs? So its representation costs will be kept, as if some representation takes place, and children's catering – everything, as if it doesn't happen anymore... Then during the epidemic the cost of representation for the state's senior officials is, but children do not need to eat during the epidemic, if? Well, that's the sum of what you're saying now... Tell me by your vote, colleagues. Think about it. Think about it. Don't just listen to what comes from that coalition council. Think with your head, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U222	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U223	Firstly, I have a request to combine speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U224	Are there objections to combining the two speaking times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U225	We are talking about ensuring that the government does not abandon its obligation to pay... 0,70... 71 cents per day for a primary school free lunch. In fact, it is very cunning, by abolishing this obligation, that the country simply lowers social standards in the country. The money, which was planned by law in the state budget for 2020, is no longer used for its purpose. When I took part in the commission meeting, I... I was really shocked at the fact that the Minister for Welfare... that this committee member voted against our proposal, against option 1-4. class students receive free lunch or their analogue, replacing it with product cards, product packages and so on. But at the same time she is also voting against our ministers being removed for this time of crisis, as my colleague Dombrovskis rightly said, the representation allowances that are not to be accounted for. We all read in the media the mayor of Valka that the municipality of Valka found an opportunity to provide a holiday for all students, but, as he writes, the municipality of Valka will not receive compensation from the state – the 50 percent that the state undertook to pay to municipalities for this holiday. Jūlija Stepanenko said that children with disabilities were forgotten. And I learned about it when one of my moms wrote me at a time when her daughter, who suffers from a very serious genetic disease, lost consciousness because she needed an increased calorie contribution during the day. This is the contribution of calories to her during school. The mother herself is also a disabled person, but she has no low-income status, because the garage will be on the family. And that's it. And such laws can only be adopted in times of crisis by people who do not understand anything at all from a situation in which the majority of disadvantaged people live...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U226	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U227	Colleagues, I think you are very happy and talented, and in any other way happy people, if you manage to work from home, teach children, which parents have to do to a great extent, and get to cook. And you have enough money for all this. It may be difficult to look into situations that you have not experienced but may try. Even if now... now the employee has gone out and he now has time (mum or dad) to be with his child and help in his training, and also to prepare their food in practice, just like school holidays, then imagine what it is when it's all to do (the monthly bills must also be paid and... and all other payments) for EUR 257. EUR 257 is the average drop-out allowance in Latvia at present. It has repeatedly been highlighted by the Head of the State Revenue Service, criticizing also entrepreneurs that they have not paid enough taxes, but the reality is exactly this – 257 euros. Think of how much you have to pay for electricity, how much you have to pay for waste, how much you have to pay for the Internet, so that your child can do their homework. How much more to go to the store once. And then make a decision on this proposal. I think it is very important, both in terms of meaning, and also in terms of form, to allow local authorities to find the best way to ensure this lunch for children. That too, by the way, is currently limited. And I think that municipalities are the best ones to see how people live and what is the best method to bring their lunch to children – whether they are warm lunches or food packages, or otherwise. So that I really call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U228	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U229	Yes, colleagues, with these meals, with the holidays, that really is not the best situation if we look before this crisis. And when talking to municipal managers and social services, education administrations, of course, the situation is that many children, really many... they are not just a few, but it is a whole range of children, where the situation in the family is such that this meal is unfortunately the only meal that that child eats daily, and when he gets into... getting home as you are now learning, the situation is not changing at all. Therefore, the provision of meals is very important, but even more important is effective public administration and effective public administration... we can take an example here – the same Riga, our capital... and those who have some idea of ever talking about effective public administration, I call for this never to be done again if you do not support this proposal. Because this proposal is exactly, well, in a city like Riga, at the moment I could just say... I have seen how much work, energy is invested to find the best solution. That's the best solution is on the cards, and I know many other cities that are going to switch to these cards. Then to say from the country that they do not accept these cards, it is rather regrettable, because it is the most effective way to manage them. In return, the ministry responsible – the Ministry of Education and Science – is still beginning to ask people to sign for food packages during the pandemic. Well, colleagues, you don't understand how much it costs – such a process to ensure – for receiving food packages to sign? This whole process is not easier, but complicated. I call for the use of technology opportunities... and to be aware of their potential. Cities have done so. Support this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U230	Thank you. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U231	Colleagues, I understand that you will answer that you have already spent this money on smart devices, but you could have spent your representation costs as well on smart devices and all the other luxury costs that you are simply not using right now. Spending children's holiday money for this purpose is wrong, and I want to ask you, Mr. Znotiņš, you applied... what are you punishing children from a family of two children whose mother, single mother, receives this EUR 257 cut-off allowance and cannot apply for low-income status because she has a garage, for example? What are you punishing with a child with disabilities, with mucoviscidosis, who, as Regina said, falls into the trap simply because he has not been provided with the proper food provided on the spot at school? What are you punishing a child with a cerebral stroke, who is also not entitled to a holiday because he is simply not included in this order of your Cabinet of Ministers? About what?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U232	Thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U233	I will continue reading public letters about children. ‘ I'm inviting... “ A letter... “ I invite Mrs. Mūrniece to embark on her as a taxpayer, that is, for the people... in a purchased luxury Mercedes, come to us and tell us how to feed the children if she votes cynically against the people at this time that we hear today in the sitting of the Saeima.” It's written by people, Mrs. Moore. They listen and see how you vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U234	The name is Digit Schmidt. Are there objections to combining the two speaking times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U235	Thank you. Finland introduced free meals for all children, without distinguishing between their parents' income or otherwise, social status, between the Winter War and the Second World War, and continues to do so, improving this program to a very healthy program... food. We are now in a crisis (and now when it really should be especially important to make sure that every child is fed)... We are destroying even what was created before the crisis. So why were we going to do this at all? Timely movements... shares “Do not buy someone else!” within the framework of research, what is this food market in Latvia, which could be provided by public order, starting with kindergartens, primary school, secondary school, homes, army... at the end of the prison and everything else. This is between EUR 150 and EUR 200 million per year. Here we could combine two fantastic things here. First of all, of course, feed your children, feed them healthy, second of all... that would be social support... and, secondly, to ensure their feeding to Latvian entrepreneurs, to give them a job in this crisis. This would be the best step-by-step payment we could do with these billions. 150 million to make sure that all those who depend on us and our power have fed healthy products from Latvia. It would be one great thing, not to destroy what was created before the crisis. That's, you know, as they sometimes say about banks that they give the umbrella in sunny time and take it away from the rain. There is a much more serious situation here. I think you still do not understand where we are and where we will be in two months' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U236	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U237	At this point in time, I call on the coalition parties, except the UKP, because their decision is clear. So again, the Cabinet of Ministers – if you have also allowed food money to be used for other purposes in general, then there is now an opportunity to correct this error. Very good if you have bought smart devices or some other support, but at the moment there is an opportunity to correct this error, even without saying loud, and also to fulfill what any of you or... any of your party representatives or representatives have also said the media... in the media that during distance learning, lunch, weekends must be for all students, regardless of whether they have been granted or not. Please correct the error, and at this point, perhaps your rating will grow much more than the BIP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U238	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U239	Yeah. I wanted to respond to some false and incorrect statements from colleagues. So, first of all, the holiday money continues to be given... and give municipalities... and to provide holidays in classes 1 to 4 for public money. There is only one restriction that these holidays must be either in the form of a food package or a warm food, and here, referring to comments made by a colleague Didžas Šmits, this form helps to involve Latvian entrepreneurs in the delivery and development of this holiday, because the local authorities are not regulated in which... which is the contents of the amending package that must be present in this food package. So you can use local entrepreneurs, local farmers, to help them provide food packages or hot food... also food business operators. That's one point. Secondly, I have to mention how the state is acting and how – the municipality. The STECF has made some comments here. And I got e-mails from very excited people. And the email was about the municipality of Aluksne, where the country supplied these holidays and has kept its 71 cent for one child... So this fee... the value of the holiday to be delivered. But what the FAO Aluksne Divisions do... So, the Chairman of the Aluksne City Council, Arthur Dukulis? He reduces with today's decision (or yesterday)... it thus reduces the part of the municipality in this holiday financing from an equivalent 71 cent to 29 cents. He reduces this part, which the municipality devotes to the holidays. Fisheries, is this the principle of good governance? Is this social care for the local population? I don't think so! I don't think so. The state continues to perform its functions, the municipality is not...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U240	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U241	Thank you. Mr Znotiņš, in my opinion, interpreted the facts very subjectively (i.e. to put it mildly). In fact, he lies and gives information in a way that is beneficial to him. It is interesting that, in this case, it is simply a social responsibility measure for all children. And, in my opinion, if we are moving towards the Scandinavian model, then in this case, children must be primarily cared for, primarily protected and primarily secured, which the current coalition does not do. And please support this proposal and ensure that all children have a minimum standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U242	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U243	I am also counting very much on this vote with part of the coalition's partners who seem to understand, but understand, the substance of the matter. And this time I am talking about colleagues of the National Association because, here, on 30 March this year... The website of the National Alliance is quite large and I think it is a good article in which the National Association has stressed that during this time too, while the training takes place at a distance, the State must provide a holiday for all 1-4. for class students, and then give an excellent example, where at the initiative of Mrs Indricksone, the ZZS municipality, the Mayor of Talsi and the rest of the management, has provided all 12 classes with their own funds for the holidays. So, the National Association, I hope you can do more than just write the article on your website, and today too, you will support this proposal so that the words really are in line with the works. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U244	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U245	Yes, colleagues, I would like to answer. 71 cents – it is hard too little for today to ensure normal holiday. On the national side, this figure could have been higher for a long time and should have been higher. But why are these cards now being used? For a simple reason. Physical operators, catering operators, are idle. Good morning, wake up! Entrepreneurs refuse to take part in this event because they use the state end-of-life service. They're just just this one here... it is not possible to participate and these cards are used where they are not possible. But more. Using these here... card system... already now it has appeared that where it is used it can provide services to much more citizens. This is a more efficient way of providing services. The service can be provided to much more citizens, as was observed in Daugavpils. But this is a problem that I cannot understand – why is the country not taking part in it? That's the story. Why the state does not participate in this... Is that so? In Riga, it is simply not possible to do this at the moment. Let me show you that! You are in power in Riga, show it!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U246	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U247	The new conservative has already achieved a half-yearly reduction in public funding for feeding children, in the light of the budget for the previous year. Now, the number of children eligible for a holiday is being reduced even further. Please support this proposal without insulting children and lenients without taking away their bread... at the same time as maintaining the party's funding while at the same time maintaining the public administration operating at 290 pairs... thousands of people... and salaries to which billions of euros are spent per year. It is simply socially unfair and unbiased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U248	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U249	In the Commission, this proposal of the group of Members, 32, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U250	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. – Proposal by Members Stepanenko, Papule, Lochmeles-Lunova, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Vacana, Liepaja, Gobzem and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U251	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Result of the vote on proposal 32: 32, 45, abstaining - 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U252	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U253	33. is a proposal from Members Stepanenko, Papule, Lochmeles-Lunova, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Vacana, Liepaja, Gobzem and Dombrovskis. It provides for the addition of a new article to the law in the following wording: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall establish the procedure whereby the employer shall be entitled to send his employees to public-paid Covid-19 analyses.” This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U254	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U255	Dear colleagues, Situation, when there is a company that still, despite everything, continues to operate, including paying taxes, and produces this part of the state budget... If, in a company, one of the employees starts to complain that he has some suspicious feelings with regard to the Covid-19, then when going to the family doctor, his suspicion is not sufficient for the family doctor to be able to prescribe the assignment, because he was neither abroad nor has any contact nor anything else that might fit. And I understand that family doctors also have their own rules of procedure. In this case, the employee must continue to go to work, but the owners of the company are concerned that the employee could (if, however, in the end he will already prove that he is ill)... he could actually miss all the employees of the company, and these are 20 people. For this reason the company will simply be forced to go out and close your operations... or close down its activities in this case. We believe that state-paid analyses of sending workers to these analyses, at the request of economic operators, are the solution if this is not really the case... would not turn into a massive closure of companies, because it is not a secret that very many entrepreneurs are concerned that their employees are also not... Nor do they feel certain about their own health, but unfortunately there are no criteria that they could meet for these national-paid analyses. So the choice is: either entrepreneurs themselves pay for these analyses, which is EUR 80 per person, or an employee, which is, of course, impossible. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U256	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U257	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I would like to say that this proposal does not in principle have any more meaning and would call for it not to be supported, because in principle every day, I could even say, not a week, an algorithm is being revised, which patients and how they are going... or potential patients, people... So sent to Covid-19 for analysis. And I can also say that, for example, today (by this week) actually any patient who has signs of disease, a family doctor can send to Covid-19 an analysis of public funding. Also, of course, these company and management opportunities to send their patients to the Covid-19 test remain in place. And that's the one here, let's say... incorporate into this law the following... it would be a very inflexibilities solution. A much more flexible solution is that the Ministry of Health reviews the number of patients tested every day, the number of positive cases and then very flexible also changes these conditions every day to increase the number of checks. Our aim, the purpose of the Ministry of Health, is to increase testing. That remains our priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U258	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U259	Yeah. I would ask you to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U260	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U261	Responding to what Mr. Durīša said about having an algorithm – it is very nice that such an algorithm exists. However, even for those who are not in a coalition, and for ordinary people too, I would like to know what this algorithm is, in general, for these Covid-19 tests. Yesterday, social media was also frozen by such a very unpleasant message about someone who... who had an accident and needed surgery, and who arrived in the hospital. And before he got to this emergency, which man actually had to wait almost a day, he had to wait for the Covid-19 test. It is quite clear that all these problems seem to us to be very distant until... something like that does not happen to us or to our loved ones. That is why I would call... I understand, Mr. Durish, that you know these algorithms. I understand that the coalition... probably you know everything, if you do not participate in the debate and do not answer the questions, you do not explain anything about the regulation of the idle or the sums of money that are being allocated. Somehow light up then perhaps not only us, opposition, but also those people who are just sitting at home at the moment without knowing what this algorithm is and how actually they get to Covid-19 analyses. And I wish you never come to a situation where you have to pray for money, and not to a situation where you have to ask for help. Because now it looks like you've appointed yourself... I don't know, even it's hard to name that name in what role.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U262	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U263	I wanted to join Linda Liepiņa in saying that the public would also like to know what the strategy is then and what the plan is then for testing. The public does not know. This is not explained to the public. If we look at statistics, then actually the statistics are getting worse. Where are the results then? How much has it been tested? What is the plan to increase testing? Society has the right to know that. What is the plan to test for antibodies? Or the only thing Viņķelis can know is to make himself a PR? But perhaps explain how the whole society will be tested, according to what criteria, either, at least, on television, where Viņķele is daily. Mr Dūris, please tell your party partner, because the public does not know that. The public is told that everything around the League could end. What, though, makes us think of objective indicators, benchmarks, and benchmarks that make us all agree together? There are no such indicators. The fact that you're in your juice, I'm sorry to change something every day – it doesn't work. Explain to the public how you plan to test people next month... a specific number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U264	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U265	Yes, colleagues, on this proposal. Of course, the virus does not sort. And also with regard to the virus... Well, before we talked about holidays. And there was a reproach. Oh, no! The mayor of Aluksne called me just a moment ago and invited me to point out to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science that she should not deceive society. Because in the case of Aluksne... Holidays are provided in the beer for all students up to 12th grade. And the fact that the government refused to co-finance the holiday in this year's budget has also caused a lot of problems in the municipalities, and it was precisely the UKP decision. Therefore, it is not necessary to mislead the public that the STECF does not provide a holiday – it ensures! – and not only for the first four classes, as state aid offers, but for all 12 classes, as happens in the municipality of Alūksne. And let it serve as an example! And the Riga City Council under your responsibility... Development/About! , BIP... Under your responsibility... Currently, your administrators manage it... Take care to have a holiday in Riga up to 12th grade, try to ensure it. I don't think you can do that. This is what is happening in the fisheries municipalities of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U266	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U267	Dear Coalition, I'll start with... Perhaps, Mr. Durish, I'm going to treat you in the same way... should start with this – thanks to the opposition for the proposals and ideas that the government may have already done – rather than that something is pointless, illogical or otherwise. I thank you, Mr Dūrišs, practically you are almost the only part of the position that considers it necessary to engage in the debate because of the narcissism... The lies expressed by the narciss do not make sense to take into account – I think the representative of the JCPOA at this moment. I call, however, for a look at and for more or a more... a wider possibility how you can increase the number of tests so that you do not have a detailed order of the Cabinet of Ministers... with correction points gradually, not gradually, perhaps even chaotically increase a group... a group of people entitled to receive state-paid Covid-19 testing. I invite you to do this, perhaps also in this law, so that it opens up much more opportunities and less bureaucratic activities in amendments to the Cabinet Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U268	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U269	Hello, colleagues! I am in the Covid-19 crisis and questions about how and where it is possible to test, and who... basically from public sources, and it has no connection with whether someone is here in the Saeima, position or opposition. And... Because one of the crucial opportunities to deal with the epidemic is the availability of information to all as much and more directly as possible, and it is therefore very recognised that the Ministry of Health also disseminates this information daily from all possible means of communication to the general public by publishing a special newsletter that can be viewed by everyone, including you, Linda Liepiņa. It is a pity that you have lived so long in ignorance, because every day this information is published from mid-March. It's a situation. gov.lv (or by entering covid.lv) this information may be collected. On the other hand, it is understandable that the situation is changing rapidly, and we have to make every effort to bring this new... The new opportunities and the new situation will be passed on and people will apply for a test, so I will take the opportunity to call on family doctors... with symptoms... and to take advantage of the opportunity and family doctors, as the Minister has also called for, send to the test on holiday so that the capacity that is in Latvia can be used. I have seen the situation now as systemic, thoughtful and also controlled, as we can see from the results that have so far been seen in this crisis situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U270	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U271	Our colleague, Mrs Voika, can continue to read her newsletters, and you can hear about Mrs. Viņķelė, but we, the opposition, Linda Liepiņa and me, are reading letters written to us by people. Mrs Voika is probably not writing because there is no point anymore, and we also read a letter from Lieda, which was sent out to all colleagues last week. This is about testing, including kindergarten watchkeeping groups, for which you have forgotten. Just like the false Mr. Znotiņš, we have forgotten about kindergartens. Colleagues, as extensive as possible testing, also at the request of the businessman, is a way to enable us to resume our work more quickly and to continue working for Latvia. I call on you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U272	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U273	Mrs. Voika, listen to what people are writing. I quote: “How far will this go? My girlfriend broke her back and needed surgery, pulled it in length. The broken bone is already developing a tumor, and all because of its goose Viņķelis. How many lives, or how many people will need to be made into a disabled person in order to reach the mountain of dibulism? What are we going on – statistics or what? Me and many others... “
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U274	I remind you, Mr Gobzem, that we are here at the Saeima sitting and I call on you not to use the Saeima...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U275	I quote. It's a quote. This is a quote from the citizen’s letter.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U276	... respect for incompatible expressions. Please turn on the microphone for Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U277	It's a quote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U278	The name of Ilmar Duritis for the second time. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U279	Thank you. Thank you. I really want to say again... not once again, but really thank the opposition for this proposal, but I seriously say that, at the moment, this proposal has been lost precisely because the situation is changing very quickly and testing has already been extended. Similarly, the Ministry of Health is thinking about how to test even more quickly, what methods to use, as there are many new methods now to detect the virus so that testing can take place even more quickly. I also call on you to report to the Ministry of Health, the National Health Service if there is any misunderstanding, perhaps on the part of family doctors. We will certainly organize this question, because at present with symptoms of a family doctor can send to the test any person if he believes it is justified. So please do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U280	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U281	We all want this situation to be changed as soon as possible, with an emergency situation, and to be able to return to the normal agenda. And for its part, the European Commission has also developed guidelines on the three prerequisites that need to be taken into account in order to be able to think now about mitigating the emergency situation and also the restrictions. The first is the dynamics of the number of sick people, or lack of growth. The second is the capacity of health institutions to cope with the number of patients and the third is that any country must provide the maximum possible testing capacity. As many checks as possible should be carried out for preventive purposes. This is just one of these proposals in this draft law that the opposition colleagues have prepared, and I call on us to support both this and all the others, which will allow us to return to the normal or normal way of life more quickly, and therefore also to restore the opportunity for people to work and earn themselves.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U282	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U283	In the Commission this proposal, 33, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U284	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. – Proposal by Members Stepanenko, Papule, Lochmeles-Lunova, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Vacana, Liepaja, Gobzem and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U285	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 33: 30, 56, abstaining - is absent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U286	Thank you. The proposal is not supported. Honourable Members, time for break. So a break – an hour – is announced until 15.00. Thank you. So let's get back to work at 3 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U287	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U288	Welcome again. So we stayed on the 34th proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis, Švecova, Pimenov, Lochmele-Lunova, Gobzem, Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis and Liepiņa. It provides for the addition of a new article to the law in the following wording: ‘The credit institution shall not make any less favourable changes to the contractual terms to the customer during the period of the provision of credit to the customer.’ This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U289	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U290	35. – The proposal of the Members Dombrovskis, Švekova, Pimenova, Lochmeles–Lunovo, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepāja provides for the addition of a new article to the law in the following wording: “During the period of the law, representation expenses are not paid and reimbursed to public officials.” This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U291	Are Members willing to debate? The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U292	Dear colleagues, You have noticed that there is no official meeting, no senior officials of any country... no participation in the various events, festivals and meetings of diplomatic representatives. The representative costs do not arise in this case. And we call for the cost of this representation, which has already been recorded among journalists and highlighted... We call for a waiver of these representation costs within the framework of this law, given that members of the coalition, who are also holders of representation costs, do not think about the weaker, do not think about the principle of fairness in the legislative process. And don't forget about people too... Children with disabilities are specifically those on which we have been debating the most today. In this case, you simply fail to fulfil your direct responsibilities... and do not deserve reimbursement of representation costs. Now only remote sittings are taking place, nothing else happens, and so there's no need for these here... these luxury costs. We call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U293	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U294	I call for support for the proposal and, therefore, for an additional opportunity to correct the mistake of part-financing on holiday... This is about financing lunch for all children in grades 1 to 4. Because that's... If BIP... The leadership of the Ministry has made this mistake and the Cabinet has supported it, now with this proposal we are giving you financial resources to ensure full lunch for all 1-4. Class 1 pupils. Correct the error! And the other thing – give up these representation expenses! At this point, when many people have no income at all, so luxurious to live... to a certain extent... At a time of crisis, only a mild government or one that does not care what is happening to the people can be allowed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U295	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U296	I, too, call for a waiver of representation expenses, which are not currently objectively present. They're actually... It is actually a wage supplement at the moment. I call for these representation expenses to be waived. Because if you do not, then I have no doubt, nor in the far future, Latvian society will give up on you, dear coalition.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U297	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U298	I won't say "others", I say: dear people, dear people! Think of the people in this hall. We are talking about granting a benefit of EUR 130, as the only benefit. 130 euros per month! We are talking about 13 000 people who have already been refused the death grant. We do not know how many people are currently sitting without any income at all. And we can still debate it – should or should not give up the representation expenses! These are things that should not be debated at all. Not only the representation expenses should be automatically abandoned, but also... For example, commission managers – from their allowances for the management of commissions, which in general... their sittings are not held, and there are many such commissions at present. What are we talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dear ones, finally go out on the street and see what happens, read the letters that people write! Don't just live in your bubble! Representations... What are you going to represent soon? Number of suicides? How many starvations have they died?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U299	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U300	Colleagues, on this proposal. I think it's logical and in place. And if we look... The government has now taken a big step and for some reasons abandoned mission expenses, thus saving something. Well, just like the representation... Well, right now, to represent Skype or some other application on the screen, I don't think there's a lot of resources needed. Therefore, it would be entirely logical if we were to give up on these expenses at this point in time. I understand... I have also spoken to former ministers and some of the good ministers who are pointing out how difficult it has been to get this standard in and how important it has been. But now... now, when there are crisis situations in the country, and when no representation is simply possible, to whom will you now represent? Who needs these expenses? They're just... quite simply, at present, they are not adequate expenditure and this amount could be used very successfully for entirely other purposes. Money, I think, will be useful – it will be useful for holidays, social benefits... It will be useful to increase the drop-out allowance for someone. But at the moment, this case should be abolished at least... I do not intend to abolish it at all, but at least for the duration of the crisis it should definitely be repealed. I call, colleagues, on us to support this proposal and to think about how foolish it actually sounds that now, in the Covid-19 crisis, we have representation expenses. Why? It's just as stupid as the Saeima's flowers would buy... Why will you buy them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U301	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U302	Colleagues, I really don't know who you represent... And especially you, Mrs. Mourniece... You too... You answered journalists that you represented the Saeima. But... I do not really know how much more money is needed so that you can send an elementary text message, including to the opposition, on what day and by what time drafts and documents can be submitted to the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. You can't even do that within the framework of representation money! What is the representation of the Saeima? You're just the Saeima right now... You have lowered the prestige of the Saeima below possible levels by your attitude towards the opposition and by your attitude towards people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U303	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U304	Colleagues! Solidarity is very important in times of crisis. It is logical that the waiver of representation expenses will not allow the funds to cover the holidays or other large, necessary payments. But it will be an important signal to the public that we, sitting here on Jēka Street, in fine premises, and working with good computers, receive abnormally high salaries (and our wages look really very high right now – on the background, when the average drop-out allowance is 257 euros!) "that we give up unnecessary, all that is not necessary for the performance of our work at the moment. And in my job duties... Mr. Valaiņš is right... At the moment, it is very difficult to imagine what the situation would be like to cover representation costs. Even at lunch with a business partner or, I don't know, political partners are hard to go, where else more valuable or more important to do! And that is why I also call for support for this proposal, not at all, but at a time of crisis. That, in my opinion, is a very important signal. Otherwise, I think it will be early or late to give up the salary, not the representation expenses.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U305	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U306	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U307	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. – a proposal submitted by Members Dombrovskis, Švekova, Pimenova, Lochmeles-Lunovo, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepāja. Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U308	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 35: 29, 40, abstaining - 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U309	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U310	36. – Proposal by Members Dombrovskis, Švekova, Pimenova, Lochmeles-Lunovo, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepiņa. It provides for the addition of a new article to the draft law in the following wording: ‘The rate of compulsory contributions, if the worker is insured for all types of social security, is 29.09 per cent, of which 24.09 per cent is paid by the employer and 5 per cent is paid by the worker while contributions are excluded from the occupational pension scheme.’ This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U311	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Are there any objections if Member Dombrovskis brings together the times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U312	Dear colleagues, I think that we must seize this opportunity to provide maximum assistance to our companies during the crisis, reducing the tax burden on labour. The business has been talking about this issue for years, if not for decades. As far as is known, six percentage points of social tax are credited to the so-called second level of pensions, which does not give any... most of this money does not bring any real success to our economy. And it would therefore be possible to relieve companies - employers and workers - of this burden during the crisis. This is not the first time that we have tabled such a proposal. And I will remind you that a neighbouring country, Estonia, has already taken such a decision at the beginning of the crisis. I call on you fellow Members to reflect and nevertheless to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U313	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U314	I also ask my colleagues to support this proposal as an economic and entrepreneurial heating, leaving companies with more financial resources and allowing them to remain both viable and competitive. It is also important to understand that the positive effect of this proposal could ensure the competitiveness of Latvian companies... competitiveness vis-à-vis Estonian companies. In Estonia, as Vjačeslav Dombrovskis has already said, there is a second pension for the time being... contributions from the Fund have been suspended. And so, according to them, some EUR 500 million remained and will remain at the disposal of companies, thus ensuring their viability, competitiveness and ability to be... more development and jobs for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U315	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U316	36. – Members' proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U317	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. – Proposal by Members Dombrovskis, Švekova, Pimenova, Lochmeles-Lunovo, Gobzema, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepiņa! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U318	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 36: 30, 54, abstaining - is absent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U319	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U320	37. - a proposal from Members Pimenova and Lochmel-Lunov. It intends to supplement the draft law with a new article in the following wording: “After the person arrives in Latvia from abroad, the Cabinet of Ministers shall immediately ensure compliance with the following specific epidemiological safety rules: 1) informing the person about the emergency rules and the use of facial protection masks; 2) taking the necessary measures for the person to carry out Covid-19 analyses; 3) delivery of the person to the self-insulation residence indicated by the person, where until the results of the analysis are obtained, the person will be permanently resident, taking into account that public transport and taxi cannot be used for its delivery.” This proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U321	Let's start a debate. Are there any objections if Member Igor Pimenov combines the two speaking times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U322	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Our proposal deals with Latvian nationals who continue to return to Latvia to get home. I object if someone recommends that they be turned to them and accused of non-compliance. Stigmatisation of repatriates is not acceptable under any circumstances. At the same time, they are to be distinguished as a group of individuals, although the Chief Infectologist of the Ministry of Health, Mr Uga Dumpja, believes that currently repatriates are not the main epidemiological threat. They are still considered to be persons suspected of having a disease caused by the new coronavirus. This is also confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 103 Relevant paragraph 4.12.1, which specifies in particular what must be done by persons from abroad. The Center for Disease Prevention and Control also highlights people returning from abroad as one of the four groups of patients undergoing publicly-paid Covid-19 analyses if symptoms of acute respiratory infection appear. However, I believe that the preventive and control measures to be implemented for Covid-19 are not sufficient. It is too little for airBaltic to invite all arriving passengers to seek medical advice from the airport before receiving their baggage and that those arriving must comply with mandatory self-insulation for 14 days. In our view, these requirements are not strict enough, especially in view of the fact that air passengers arrive in Riga from the transport and transfer nodes that have become infected. We propose that the Cabinet of Ministers ensure immediately after the person arrives in Latvia from abroad three measures, which the rapporteur has already named. I call for such measures not to be considered as penalties, but as extending the medical service and strengthening and enforcing the emergency rules. We are invited to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U323	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U324	Request to combine speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U325	Are there objections to combining the two speaking times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U326	Hello, fellow Members, again! I'm going to have a point-by-point call. First. There is a certain correlation between the number of tests and the detection of infected individuals when looking at epidemic statistics. So there is such a correlation. Second. The law on Covid-19 and the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which state that all persons who enter Latvia from abroad must comply with the 14-day self-insulation in the event that the test on Covid-19 is not positive. Third. How it was found yesterday... At the meeting of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity, it was confirmed from the Chief of State Border Guard that there is currently inequality between epidemiological control measures: on the one hand, at the airport and in the port and on the other hand – at the land border. Because none of the five border points between Estonia and Latvia... Newcomers, not three points between Latvia and Lithuania, are not given the opportunity to transfer the analysis to the Covid-19 on a voluntary basis. The only chance to pass on such an analysis is by calling the quick... emergency medical care for the removal of persons with symptoms. Next. The temperature on the land border is not measured. Mr. Putt explained that there is not enough capacity. So – we have unequal treatment even among those who enter the airport, in the port... and on the land border. And the last one. The Road Transport Directorate indicated that the transport that is provided to the returnees... that this does not prevent that person from going to home with a taxi, because currently the taxi is not considered to be a public transport mode and there are no norms that prevent the returnee from choosing a taxi instead of using special means of transport to home; this in turn increases the possibility of expanding the epidemic. I believe that these measures are not discriminatory, they are measures to speed up the end of the emergency situation and, therefore, the recovery of the Latvian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U327	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U328	I would add to what my colleague, Lochmele-Lunova, said. Yesterday, the public transport directorate announced to us (at the meeting of the committee) that it had the opportunity to bring passengers to the microdistricts in which they live. In fact, people who travel to Bolderea, for example, are getting to their own microdistrict... and so on. Why can public transport rented for the needs of the returnees not bring them home? That is the first question. Question two: There seems to be a need for mandatory tests on the Covid-19 both at the airport, at the sea port and on the land border. Latvia now remains one of the few EU countries where the border guard does not place his ordons at the border... at land borders. It seems that we are the most freest, most liberal in this regard. But – it seems that the epidemiological service has to go to help and place its tents on the border with Lithuania and Estonia, where people still drive their own motor vehicle. Please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U329	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U330	Dear colleagues, It really is not understandable why this proposal has not been supported... especially when we take into account the positive example. Liepaja Municipality is able to organize it in some way... Repatriates living in their own administrative territory... And just as well, the Cabinet could arrange all this in connection with this return... Members of the Saeima were tested, all of them. There is still no answer as to why this was done. But at the moment repatriation testing and transfer to home is really done... as far as possible. If you were to support this proposal, it would really bring us closer to the situation so that we could deal with the Covid-19 crisis as soon as possible. I call on you to support it, but I understand that you will still not support it; you are here today simply to vote against all the opposition proposals. But maybe the government will hear that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U331	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U332	Dear colleagues from the opposition! I would ask you to say the word in the composition that we are now... We say, "It is not understandable why this proposal has not been supported." Let's stop pretending! We understand very well why these proposals are not supported: well, simply because we are opposition. The opposition proposals are not supported! The coalition has always lied, saying that this will be its crisis... the time when the opposition will work together with the coalition. Melly! Nothing is supported or heard, no one works together. We are not involved in working groups – and so on, and so on. So we're gonna try to say... Instead of saying, 'We do not understand why any of our proposals are not supported', we will say, 'We understand that this proposal is not supported because it is a proposal from the opposition!' Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U333	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U334	37. – Members' proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U335	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. – the proposal submitted by Members Pimenova and Lochmele-Lunova! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U336	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Result of the vote on proposal 37: for - 20, against - 53, abstention - 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U337	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U338	38. - Member Orlov's proposal. It intends to supplement the draft law with a new article in the following wording: “The carrier, who provides for the entry of a person into Latvia, must issue personal protective equipment to the person upon the commencement of the carriage.” This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U339	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U340	Colleagues, good afternoon! This proposal is absolutely logical and aims to establish – finally to establish! – a provision that would make this absolutely necessary measure to combat the epidemic mandatory. So far, it was absolutely for the conscience of the carriers themselves. In particular, there was a recommendation of the Ministry of Transport, but as we know, the recommendation is not a norm, because it does not impose any obligation or responsibility. By introducing this provision, we will also introduce possible responsibility for the safety of people, starting with the boarding of the vehicle by which the arrival of the newcomer is carried to the border of Latvia. In this way we will take care of the health and safety of Latvia during the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U341	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U342	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U343	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - Member Orlov's proposal! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U344	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Result of the vote on proposal 38: 27, 54, abstaining - 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U345	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U346	39. - a proposal from Members Lochmele-Lunovo and Clementyev. It provides for supplementing the draft law with a new article in the following wording: “( 1) When entering Latvia from abroad, a Latvian national must carry out Covid-19 analysis and use the personal protective equipment provided to him. (2) The Cabinet of Ministers shall lay down the procedure for carrying out the analysis and issuing of individual protective measures provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article.” In the Commission, 39 of the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U347	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U348	Good afternoon! This proposal is a compromise because it does not even provide for a mandatory layout on... quarantine, but there are only two provisions: firstly, mandatory virus testing and, secondly, mandatory use of personal protective equipment. And it also provides that the Cabinet of Ministers lays down any arrangements relating to the mandatory implementation of these two points... with all exceptions... And so on. The only and main argument that was made against this proposal during the committee meeting was that it is absolutely pointless to carry out tests on Covid-19 if there are no symptoms, because then the test could not show the presence of infection. That's what I could ask you a logical question. Perhaps someone will explain why all 100 Members of the Saeima were tested without any symptoms? From a medical point of view, what was the point of view? Is there anything we do not know? What we know from the generally available information shows that this proposal is absolutely logical and would increase public security when repatriates enter Latvia. Please support me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U349	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U350	Dear colleagues, Well, in fact, it was time to introduce a month ago – when the first returnees started to arrive. Do not have to vote against and support this proposal! It was the very first wave when people arrived, returned to the territory of Latvia. And they came from those areas that are infected! And if we can't give them even masks on their faces right away... If even one person could be potentially infected with Covid-19, it means that immediately there will be 10, and after a day, it may already be 100 people, then 1,000 people... We see that with every day it is increasing, increasing, not stopping yet, not remaining on the ground. And if we're in such a poor situation that we can't for those who... Last week was brought, I think 400... or 450 passengers... Well, is it really impossible for us to provide 450 masks for our citizens, Latvia? Are we so poor?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, let's offer them at least one euro if we can't give them for free! And, of course, then we can think that if they follow that two-week quarantine at home... However, as we know, and as representatives of the Ministry of Health also announced to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, it is that people overload Covid-19 without any symptoms. What's with them then? Is that so? And how many can they be... Is that so? For example, on board an aircraft, 60 people were flying from Amsterdam last week. And how many of them may have no symptoms... Is that so? Maybe 10 are already... We don't know, we... Nobody can say that. And then we start looking for all the Riga with which the people he collected. Please take this into account. So we'd better pay the salt right away, but it's gonna be a better result right away. We're not so poor here that we can't...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U351	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U352	Colleagues! I also support this proposal. When we discussed whether it was necessary or not to check the arrivals at the border, the Health Ministry's argument, which has already been said once again, was that, firstly, it could create an unjustified sense of security for the population and, secondly, it had little efficiency. That's a sense of security. I think if people are clearly told that the fact that you have a negative result today does not mean that you may not be able to identify this disease or infection tomorrow, then people will understand it quite well. And the other. This action would be a preventive action. And preventive action is different from the fact that preventive action does not have to be a one-hundredth of percent. Not even close! The aim of the preventive action is to capture cases where a person is really ill and to protect the rest of Latvia from possible risks. And it is clear that those people who are still entering Latvia... Given that we are indeed in a much better situation than neighbouring countries, they are at risk. And if we don't use this opportunity to test them on the border, then... then it may be necessary to catch the wind in an empty field.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U353	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U354	Colleagues! I would like to add a little to what Mr Klementyev said, to answer his rhetorical question: do we really not have a mask for the returnees? Mr. Clementyev, we don't... We have a situation where a coalition cannot buy normal, appropriate masks even for medical staff. We live in a country where the coalition cannot even do so! I think we can only dream that one day we will have the opportunity to allocate personal hygiene products to all returnees. In this case, of course, we can only dream about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U355	Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U356	Dear colleagues, I'm very brief. I'd like to add a little... and maybe also to correct what my colleague Dana Reizniece-Ozola said, but it is very widespread in public space. I fully support this idea, I fully agree that it is prevention, but... We should separate... A person may be infected, but that does not mean that he is ill. Is infected and is ill. Diseases are those with symptoms. And then the disease is divided into mild, moderate, and severe. But the most important thing is that if a person is infected, he will be aware that he may be able to reach others as well. And that is the aim of this proposal, and that is why I am calling for this proposal to be supported. I think that when a person feels healthy, he is more prepared to violate these self-insulation rules (this is the case for those 14 days) than if he, although feeling healthy, realizes that he is infected with Covid-19. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U357	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U358	Thank your colleagues for their support. I hope that others will also support this proposal. I would like to remind you that the World Health Organization has already warned the whole world about an emergency situation on 30 January – that we need to prepare ourselves. Almost three months have already passed since January 30. We're still... So far, there are only three companies that are ready to make their own cheapest masks. Well, we work slowly and think even more slowly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U359	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U360	39. – Members' proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U361	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - the proposal tabled by Members Lochmeles-Lunovo and Clementyeva! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U362	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Result of the vote on proposal 39: 28 against -49, abstaining -5.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U363	Thank you. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U364	40. – An offer from Members Liepiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Stepanenko and Schmidt. It provides for the addition of a new article to the law: ‘A staff member may receive an allowance at more than one place of employment up to the total amount of the lower limit.’ This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U365	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U366	Colleagues! Please listen and get rid of your mobile phones! The existing rules on the procedure for calculating people's benefits are very unfair for those who work in several jobs because the basic salary received at the workplace is taken into account as the basis for the calculation. This means that if a person has worked in two, three or more jobs, he cannot qualify for this maximum allowance of EUR 700. And perhaps this is one of the reasons why the amount of benefit paid is currently low. This regulation should certainly be changed quickly, because it is not really fair for those who have paid taxes on wages – we are denying them this... the amount of this allowance is limited. You are talking about the principles of justice that you will introduce into the new tax system, but forget about the principles of justice today, when people need your help so much. Please listen to this proposal. If you need to define it differently, rewrite it, but this correction is very necessary.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U367	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U368	Ladies and gentlemen, to be more understandable to you, maybe we can repeat it again and again, but in other ways, so. Specific situation. Doctor of physiotherapist. She had her doctor’s practice, which had to be closed because she did not work with acute patients, for example, her patients had no cerebral stroke, and she had to stop her physiotherapy practice. The doctor asked him to apply for an end-of-life allowance. She was refused because she still had a little job, a little earning (EUR 200) in one other place. Hence, a person is simply left with the opportunity to receive the same salary as she... they are 200 euros. She does not pay for the closure of a medicine doctor’s practice. She has, of course, mortgage credit and all the other expenses involved also in maintaining practice. No one will, of course, cover this. What can a person do in such a situation? Does the doctor really deserve to live with EUR 200 at the moment? A specific picture, a specific question. I would like to understand what your answer to that is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U369	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U370	Colleagues! A person who chooses to work more than one job usually does not have a good life but does so if he cannot earn enough money in one job. This means that, to a large extent, these people, who have worked in several places to draw ends, are left with very low incomes, because they can only get a stop benefit in one job. If the State has determined that the maximum amount of the soft pay may not exceed EUR 700, it must also be maintained and whether or not a person receives it in one or more jobs, it must be given the opportunity to do so. The State Revenue Service also recognised in the meeting of the Commission that it is possible to do this. Yes, it would be more difficult, but it is possible to do so. Administration... Their main argument was why we should not support this proposal that two regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will need to be amended. Imagine, colleagues – during the crisis two regulations of the Cabinet cannot be amended! We have changed this same law every day, every week, as many times as we do. It's not a problem, it's not an argument! If we simply do nothing with such arguments, then I think we have no room in politics.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U371	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U372	I wanted to add to what Mrs Reizniece-Ozola said that there are also people who work in several jobs, now from a very good life, for example, Mr Znotiņš is both a Member and a Parliamentary Secretary, and Mrs Petravičas is both a Member and a Minister. The most comical thing is that they will already be exactly those who vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U373	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U374	In the Commission this proposal, 40, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U375	Please call me! Let's vote for 40. – the proposal submitted by Members Liepiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Stepanenko and Schmidt! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U376	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Outcome of the vote on proposal 40: 31, 48, abstention: 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U377	The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U378	41. – An offer from Members Stepanenko, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepiņa. It is envisaged to supplement the draft law with a new article as follows: "Let the public perform outdoor audiovisual performances while in their cars, ensuring that the epidemiological safety requirements and assembly restrictions are complied with and that electronic payments are made, including within 24 hours after 22.00." This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U379	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U380	Dear colleagues, This will be a little easier for your conscience, it will be easier for you to reject it, because it may not hurt anyone directly, but it is a solution for the creative professions. It's not a secret that very many... Well, all the creative professions are now in an inconvenient situation. Those who gathered several hundred and thousands of people in concerts cannot do this at the moment. There is also, of course, the same situation for cinemas. On the contrary, there are people who suffer greatly from the fact that they cannot socialize and cannot enjoy art directly. That is why, of course, our neighbours in Lithuania, as well as German colleagues and American legislators, have solved this situation. It's such a peculiar hybrid of socialization – people come to concerts, they come to car shows. That's the same good... old, good, let's say, cinema... auto... open-air cinema and also concert. In Germany, a concert of this form (which collected funds for medical support) has only recently taken place, provided that the vehicles are not abandoned. People stay in the cars sitting in and meeting all the epidemiological safety requirements. There's nothing to say. Mr Stein also read the whole proposal. It is also clear to you that the settlement also takes place in electronic form, while fully respecting all the necessary requirements. I call for this proposal to be supported. But if not, I very much hope that the Ministry of Health will continue to think about how to make people, the creative personality, say, this situation and give them an opportunity...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U381	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U382	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U383	Please call me! We will vote for 41. – the proposal submitted by Members Stepanenko, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Liepāja! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U384	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Result of the vote on proposal 41: 17, 53, abstaining - 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U385	The proposal is not supported. Mr. Stein!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U386	So 42. – Proposal by Members Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Bergmanis and Liepiņa. It is planned to supplement the transitional provisions of the law with the following text: “The Cabinet of Ministers should ensure that hospital treatment facilities for patients who require social care or social rehabilitation by accommodation (long-term or short-term social care institutions (in homes or social beds), group apartments, crisis centre and others), one day before the transfer, are carried out for the determination of Covid-19 infection.” This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U387	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U388	43. – Proposal by Members Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Kučinska, Liepiņa and Stepanenko. It is planned to supplement the transitional provisions of the law with the text: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall ensure that the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control transmits personal data to the social services of local governments and orphan courts in order to ensure the fulfilment of the functions referred to in paragraphs 7 and 23 of Article 15 of the Law “On Local Authorities” in the cases referred to in subparagraphs 4.12.2 and 4.12.3 of this Order, where the two-metre distance cannot be observed in the provision of the on-site service.” This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U389	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U390	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U391	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U392	The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law on prevention and management of national threats and their consequences in relation to the spread of Covid-19” in the second, final reading: on – 81, against – 1, refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U393	Thank you. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Edgars Kucins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U394	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers before the first reading. Paragraph 48 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Higher Education provides that the fields of study to be accredited in 2019 shall be accredited in accordance with the established timetable for accreditation of the fields of study. Given the current situation around the world, participation of several foreign experts who have been approved for the evaluation of the course of studies is difficult or even impossible, and this hinders the process of evaluation procedures. Consequently, it is not possible to be included in the regulatory framework within the time limits. In order to ensure that the situation caused by the Covid-19 epidemic does not affect the accreditation of study courses, it is necessary to make changes to the entire schedule of accreditation of study courses by extending the time limits for accreditation of study courses by six months, namely the period of accreditation of study courses referred to in point 48(1) of the transitional provisions to 30 June 2021, the period of accreditation of study courses referred to in point 2 to 30 June 2022, the period of accreditation of study courses referred to in point 3 to 30 June 2023, and the period of accreditation of study courses referred to in point 4 to 30 June 2024. The Commission unanimously supported the draft law "Amendments to the University College Law" and asked that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U395	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” as urgent! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U396	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” is urgent: there are no votes for – 84, no votes against and abstains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U397	Thank you. The draft law has been declared urgent. Members want to have a debate. Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U398	Hello, colleagues! There is no question of whether there is a need for an extension of the deadline for the accreditation of study programmes, because the current crisis is simply forcing it to do so; the question is what additional period this accreditation is being carried out. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science had asked the Board of Directors to extend these deadlines for a year, not for a half year. I certainly join in this proposal from the Board of Directors because... and I also call on you to think about the fact that in the future, not only school studies, but also universities will be different from what they have been so far, and as an integral part of these trainings, which should also be assessed in accreditation, is the issue of remote studies, the provision of universities with all the infrastructure necessary for remote studies, the ability to use it for teachers, the ability to be prepared for all these things. These are additional issues that will have to be included in this new accreditation. In my opinion, this additional half-year will not provide enough information to allow universities to account for this and assess it in substance. Therefore, so that its accreditation is not formal but substantive, I call for these deadlines to be extended not by half a year, but by one year, and I will make a proposal on this. Consequently, obviously this situation is such that it is necessary to submit proposals... a reasonable time for the second reading of the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U399	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U400	Thank you. Supporting Mr. Wuzan's proposal... During the meeting of the Education, Culture and Science Commission, no argument was received from the Ministry of Education and Science, why exactly half a year. The sentence that we extend all this for a short period of time is not an argument. I agree that at the moment, the accreditation system, with the introduction of new elements about distance learning and greater use of the digital opportunity, also in the higher education institutions of Latvia... I also think that half a year is not a reasonable request for a standstill period. Consequently, probably, I am already calling on my fellow Members, all the other Members, to think that this year really would be... this half-year would be prolonged, or the duration of accreditation would certainly be greater for security, because we do not know what will happen in the summer or in a few months... or that will take place in September. One. Second. So that universities can, of course, prepare more calmly, also taking into account these new aspects, I ask the coalition colleagues not to think about being opposition, but really the joint call of the Board of Directors and the views of professionals this time, and what accreditation will apply to. These people have an important and significant view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U401	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U402	In answer to that question from colleagues, why was this deadline set? Because it is important to take into account the factor that such field of study accreditation has not taken place in Latvia since 2013. Colleagues, of course, are currently difficult circumstances and are also members of the Commission (including members of a foreign commission) to carry out these accreditations on the ground. An additional half-year is a completely sufficient time now, hopefully, for this to happen. If that is not the case, then let us extend this time afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U403	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U404	I'm just very short. I am also a teacher of one private university. I can assure you that the current circumstances, when lectures are to be conducted remotely, require a completely different methodological approach, both by organising the learning process and work in student groups and, of course (and most importantly!) evaluating students’ knowledge and skills. Therefore, in my opinion, it is a great challenge for both universities and the Ministry of Education and Science not only to set criteria, but to prepare criteria for both types of learning, both remotely and locally, because we will admit that no one knows when, at what point and to what extent we will be able to restore the classic learning process both in schools and in universities. For this reason, I believe that this year is exactly the optimal period for identifying a new external environment that will be in place for any educational institution and the reality in which the learning process as a whole will turn over, and there will be sufficient time for the Ministry of Education and Science itself to adapt all procedures and regulatory internal documents for the successful implementation of this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U405	Thank you. The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U406	Thank you for the sentence for listening. But again: 2013 is definitely not an argument to speed up or limit this term extension, as practitioners and rectors who are responsible for the quality of education in higher education institutions ask for, because politicians and previous ministers have changed several laws, they have changed the type of accreditation. Universities are not responsible for this process. Politicians are responsible for this, whether they were in power or not. These have been political decisions. Therefore, giving a longer extension at the moment would be only an honorary thing and, to a certain extent, a guarantee that our universities will get a better assessment in international accreditation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U407	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U408	... To support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U409	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole. Mr. Cole! Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U410	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” at first reading: for – 84, there are no votes against and abstains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U411	Thank you. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U412	The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 minutes. Review at second reading – next extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U413	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 30 minutes until 17.05 p.m. Review – the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. Thank you. Colleagues, time to break for half an hour. So let's keep working at 5 p.m. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U414	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. The draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 16 April 2020 No. Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1). 103 Promulgating an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U415	Hello, colleagues! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption of Corruption on 22 April, the Cabinet of Ministers discussed amendments to Resolution No. 103 promulgating an emergency. Some additions have been introduced to those amendments. It's not as much as before, but this is the case, and I will refer to you the most important. So the first. The regulation of children’s nutrition in special educational establishments has been supplemented. In particular, it is foreseen that a maximum of EUR 5 per day per learner may be spent. There are also additions for the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia, which provides support to businessmen whose employees need to return to Latvia or leave the country. Also, with the approval of the agency, it is allowed to visit the necessary foreign specialists in Latvia. No further visas are issued for entry into Latvia, except for the cases agreed in the Emergency Order. In addition, the Foreign Minister has extended the right to decide on the transfer of the restaurant diplomats and employees to Latvia without preserving certain social guarantees for their families. The order has also been supplemented by regulation of sworn notaries. In future, when the employment relationship is terminated and reported to the Minister for Justice, the notary must provide information whether this has been due to an emergency. In turn, notary assistants are exempted from the examination if the employment relationship has been terminated due to an emergency situation and new employment relations have been initiated not later than one year after the removal of the emergency situation. After hearing the authorities' reports, the emergency commission... situations... the amendments are deemed to be justified, appropriate and necessary. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U416	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U417	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about specialist education institutions, it is very bad that this regulation comes only now, because, with the identification of at least seven specialist education institutions, we have found that some of them have already tried to organise themselves, but some have really been waiting for this order of 16 April, and only next week will be able to take action. Talking about students and their families. At the moment, the situation is that for many families it is also another additional test, an additional burden, because certainly at least one parent in this case must stay at home with the child. These children are different, different severitys of disability... There is a need for special monitoring, including special feeding, and, of course, what we have found out is that special education institutions are doing their utmost to do what they can and what is even more powerful. Teachers work, go home to the learners, try to find out, identify those who cannot learn remotely, and then take the material home. But the question is about support for parents, because parents have increased their workload, and in addition to their job duties, they have a child with a severe disability who has been in special school until now, which means that you have never thought about everyone again. Once again, this is a fragmented thinking, and it is a pity that you have not also called on the members of the opposition in your working groups, because we are – let us repeat! – The opposition is not because we are more confused than you, but you have just decided that you know better, but it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U418	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U419	Thank you. I understand that this is an attempt to correct the error of the Ministry of Education and Science again by order of the Cabinet of Ministers, by missing another group – children, who should be given the right time in the system and in the right way, the holidays that have been financed by the State so far. In this order, three points are quite specific, which unfortunately demonstrates not only the lack of monitoring and non-recognition of the situation, but also, admittedly, the lack of professionalism. Because if even the first... one of the points that says that you can spend no more than 5 euros on special foods, well, it's more than other... in other cases, although it is only a little more than what the country already gives to funding one child, such as EUR 4 and 24 cents. But in this case, by adding apparently another section of the country, you get this amount. The other thing, in my opinion, confirms a total lack of knowledge of the situation both in the case of holidays and in the case of special children. Suddenly, the Ministry of Education and Science has remembered that public funding, which so far has not been affected by the mutual settlement of local governments, in a situation where special children are at home in different local governments, even though they have studied at one school... Currently, in order to introduce any possible duplication, suddenly local government accounts are starting to operate in this group as well. So one more testament to the fact that bureaucracy will win everything that is currently going on, and how could local authorities do this if they had the opportunity to freely determine their own form and to feed those children who are not only declared in their local governments. The third point is not worth the discussion, because no normal person who wants to implement a government order can understand or enforce it. Consequently, the following versions cannot be supported in the present case: Perhaps the recommendation would look at both the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which the Ministry of Education and Science is proposing and not so that these requirements or possibilities for eating children with special needs that are present at home are coordinated, understandable and transparent. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that three times the supply of food for special children may also occur, which is a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U420	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U421	I would like to point out that, finally, this draft decision already shows support for those workers and seafarers who had been trapped in Latvia without having the opportunity to return to their jobs abroad. It is a pleasure that the opposition's recommendation to work proactively was taken into account... LIAA, Ministry of Economics and Ministry of Transport... that these workers, especially seafarers (marked in a letter from our group president, Mr Urbanovič)... to enable them to return to their stations. Thank you for being... was taken into account.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U422	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U423	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U424	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet Order of 16 April 2020 No. Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1). 103 promulgating an emergency! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U425	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 16 April 2020 No. Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1). 103 Promulgating an emergency: 81 no longer exists.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U426	Thank you. Decision adopted. On the agenda – referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of City Council and Regional Council of the Republic of Lithuania” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic”, first reading. For the Commission, Member of the Commission Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U427	Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the District Council” was submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and we prepared it in consultation with the Central Electoral Commission, the Electoral Commission of the Republican cities and municipalities, the Administration of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Constitutional Protection Office, the State Security Service and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Briefly, what the draft law provides for. The valid Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic states that a voter may vote only in the polling station on whose list he is included, but the Saeima elections may vote in any district of the Republic. Firstly, this draft law extends the possibilities to participate in municipal elections, providing that voters can vote in any polling station of their municipality. The chosen solution is to register voters online in any part of his municipality where he came to vote. Secondly, the draft law provides that the use of online registration of voters in municipal elections would contribute to the successful implementation of the online electoral register also in Saeima elections and ensure equal access to the elections to the Saeima for voters who only hold an identity card but do not have a passport. At present, these people do not have the opportunity to participate in the Saeima elections. Thirdly, the voter's online registration application is intended to be developed and financed from funding already allocated to the Authority for Citizenship and Migration Affairs in this year's budget. There is no legal basis for starting work on the establishment of an online register. This draft law would sort out this case. The draft law also provides for a back-up if, for technical reasons, it would not be possible to register voters online or, for example, in the case of electricity supply or internet malfunctions. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the City Council and the District Council of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U428	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the Regional Council of the Republic” at first reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U429	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” at first reading: in favour of – 83, against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U430	Thank you. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U431	The deadline for proposals was set by the Commission for five days.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U432	Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is five days – 28 April this year. Review of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U433	Review next...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U434	Thank you, thank you. No, no. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is five days – 28 April this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register”. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register”, first reading. For the Commission, Member of the Commission Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U435	Good afternoon! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register” was submitted by the Commission of State Administration and Local Government in consultation with all the same organisations and institutions that I mentioned earlier. Both draft laws are linked... and is also linked to one objective. It is this draft law that terminates the attachment of voters to a particular district in municipal elections that allows them to refuse to send rather expensive and insecure statements to voters about the district attached to them. With the online registration of voters, it will no longer be necessary to pre-list the district voters. And so that the Office for Citizenship and Migration can start working on the procurement and development of an online electoral register, for which the budget has already been allocated this year, needs a legal basis, and this is a draft law. I call for a vote at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U436	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Voters' Register at first reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U437	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register” at first reading: for – 82, against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U438	Thank you. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U439	The Commission set five days – 28 April – for proposals of deadlines.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U440	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 April this year. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U441	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Please support the draft law “Amendment to the Act on Unemployment Insurance”... refer the matter to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The draft law provides that a person who has been granted unemployment benefit and the period ends on 12 March or later shall be entitled to apply for unemployment benefit for up to four months. Fixed amount of payment – 130 euros per month. The funds are set at 21.8 million, which will be covered by unforeseen expenditure. This is therefore not an additional burden on the social budget. Therefore, please reject the draft law submitted under order number 14 ‘Amendments to the Act on Unemployment Insurance’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U442	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak by Andrejs Klementyevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U443	I am listening very carefully to today's debate and I have heard from the interesting statement of former Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola that we do not have the Ministry of Welfare, but there is an absurd ministry. Today, I listened to Ramon and I understand that the real minister lives in some strange absurdity. Half an hour's return was decided to have a minimum retirement allowance of 180. How can you talk today about 130 unemployed who can't find a job? It would be logical for you to take the floor and say, "I'm sorry, in this version that we are heading today to the Social and Labour Commission... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day My new proposal from the ministry would be €180 per month for no unemployment benefit." Then I would understand that you are reading something or reacting to what is happening in the Cabinet. I understand that an absurd minister... An absurd ministry today works very destructive and does not read news... Nothing. How can you talk about 130? It cannot be that the unemployment benefit is higher than the unemployment benefit, because the unemployment benefit is a benefit that arises for a person who has paid social tax. This guarantees the system. It's not a gesture of charity. The person actually knew that there would be risks, paid taxes, and received this aid as a counterpayment from his taxes or insurance rates. In this context, I ask the Commission to draw up a proposal where there will be a completely different norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U444	So one Member has spoken about, one against. Let's vote. We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U445	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of voting for handing over to the commission of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance Case”: for – 81, against – 3, refrains – not.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U446	Thank you. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps” be submitted to the National Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Specially Protected Natural Areas” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Criminal Register” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Klementyeva, Orlova, Ribakava, Krišana and Agešin’s draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? And the objections. So it is reported that he has applied to speak on behalf of Andrejs Klementyev. Please, for: Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U447	Please support the draft law. I would like to remind you that half a year ago an absurd ministry, or Ministry of Welfare, went out with a proposal to reduce both the amount of unemployment benefit and the time when a person will have the right to receive this benefit in order to encourage people to return to the labour market more quickly. Yes, the unemployment figures were very good for us. The average term for people receiving unemployment benefit was 3.5... Three and a half months, and so there was reason to initiate this amendment. The Ministry of Welfare, I do not know why, did not protect people, but supported their decision and tried to extend and worsen the situation with other proposals. It is very good that the commission audited them. But today, if we are talking about substance, there is a completely different situation on the labour market. We have almost 10 000 young unemployed people who have applied for, and we know very well that they will not find a job for the next six months. We have almost 50,000 people who are already receiving the allowance today and will, after some time, remain without the allowance and start looking for work, but their supply on the labour market will not be satisfied. That is why I did not offer anything radically. I only suggest that you return to the old regime so that the unemployment benefit is three months' one-hundredth of the allowance (and so on)... and extend to nine months. I think this is a socially responsible step. I remind you that the insurance system and the insurance contributions – that is... People pay when they can pay and when they know that these risks will be. But they also have the right to receive full support and full cost from the State at the time when they lose their job in a particular situation or other risks. I therefore see no reason to reject my draft law. Financially, this is not so complicated. If the previous framework was designed to support this proposal, when we saw the budget last year, it is not a problem at all today: to find this money in the funds we attracted. But to help morally people who work today and pay taxes with a guarantee that they will receive full benefits – this is very important. Encourage business to pay taxes more actively and to be honest – it would also be a good thing. But most importantly, we encourage nearly 63,000 people to take care of them and pay the allowance to a large extent, which was promised on 31 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U448	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Let's start again! Let's start again!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U449	I'm sorry. On the procedure. It is not possible to start again; it is only possible to correct the vote afterwards. I'm sorry. You can't hit the button twice by voting, Mrs. Mourniece! ( The vote is ongoing.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U450	Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U451	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of voting for handing over to the commission of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance Case”: for – 30, against – 55, refrains – there.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U452	Thank you. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals”, third reading. Andrey Judin, Member of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U453	Hello, colleagues! On 25 February, we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals” before the third reading. Although the proposals were not submitted, we discussed for quite a long time because we received a letter from the Latvian Union of Municipalities – the proposal to focus once again on the norm regarding the symbolism of totalitarian regimes, the use of clothing and other items. We also called on representatives of the State Security Service and discussed the relevant norm very seriously once again. What should be taken into account? The Latvian Municipal Union believes that by this provision we create an additional obligation for municipalities, which can be quite difficult to answer, when deciding whether to allow or not to authorise the use of prohibited symbolism, because it is allowed if there is no intention to directly praise the regimes or justify the crimes committed. The responsible person of the State Security Service informed and told the members of the Commission about his function, about his vision, and it is important to note that Article 7 of the Law, which we also supported at second reading, provides: if there is an application from organizers to use the relevant symbol, the municipality is only obliged to inform the State Security Service that such a request has been received, and then the State Security Service will be involved and, when actively working, evaluates and will help municipalities to take a decision. In other words, municipalities do not have to carry out any investigation, an in-depth analysis, the main function being to actually report to the institution concerned. We therefore decided that the Commission would not make any new proposals. Given that no other proposals were received, we supported the progress of the draft law for the third reading. Please support the law... draft legislation at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U454	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U455	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events” at the third reading: for – 67, against – 18, refrains – not.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U456	Thank you. The law is passed. Draft Act “Amendments to the Road tolls Act”, third reading. For the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U457	Good evening, colleagues! The draft law for the third reading, ‘Amendments to the Road tolls Act’, was examined by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Two proposals were received in total. 1. – a proposal from the Minister of Transport. The Commission has partially supported and included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U459	2. – Budget and financial (tax) commissions... Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U461	The Commission supported further progress of the draft law at third reading. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U462	Please call me! We will vote for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road tolls”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U463	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road tolls” at third reading: for – 88, against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U464	Thank you. That's why the law was passed. Draft Act “Amendments to the Water Management Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U465	Good evening, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Water Management Act” at first reading. The draft law provides for the decoding or transfer of norms of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code to sectoral laws. The draft law provides for supplementing the water management law with a new chapter “Administrative infringements in the field of water resource protection and management and competence in the administrative infringement process”, as well as for supplementing the obligations of water users. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U466	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Water Management Act! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U467	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Water Management Act at first reading: for – 87, against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U468	Thank you. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U469	28 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U470	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on environmental impact assessment”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Arturs Rubiks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U471	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment”. This draft law concerns decoding. The commission responsible examined the draft legislation at first reading and supported it. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U472	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U473	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment” at first reading: for – 86, there are no votes against and abstains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U474	Thank you. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U475	Proposals deadline: 28 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U476	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U477	Hello, colleagues! We will work with the document Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring (No. 526/Lp13), second reading. The Commission has received three proposals. All three relate to codification. 1. – Legal Bureau proposal. Partially supported, included 2. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U478	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U479	2. – a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U481	3. – Legal Bureau proposal. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U483	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U484	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Monitoring the Food Chain"! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U485	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Monitoring of the Food Chain at second reading: for - 86, there are no votes against and abstains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U486	Thank you. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U487	Proposals should be submitted by 28 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U488	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 April this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U489	Good evening! So we are looking at the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods”. Ten proposals were received. 1. – Legal Bureau proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U491	2. – Legal Bureau proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U492	The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U493	3. – Legal Bureau proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U495	4. – Legal Bureau proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U497	5. – Legal Bureau proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U498	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U499	6. – Legal Bureau proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U501	7. – also a proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U503	8 / 8 – Legal Bureau proposal. It was partly supported and included 9. – a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U504	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U505	9. – a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U507	And 10. – Legal Bureau proposal. Associated with the legal technique. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U508	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U509	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U510	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U511	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods” at second reading: for – 87, not against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U512	Thank you. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U513	28 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U514	Thank you. The proposals are due to expire on 28 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Pyrotechnic Products”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U515	Hello, colleagues! At its meeting on 3 March 2020, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Pyrotechnic Products” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The draft law is part of the so-called decoding draft package and determines transfer of administrative responsibility from the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations to the law of the relevant sector. The draft law also specifies certain details, such as the rules on suspension of special licences, and defines the powers of the authorities in the application of penalties. The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I call for this to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U516	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Pyrotechnic Products”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U517	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Pyrotechnic Products at first reading: for – 85, not against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U518	Thank you. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U519	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U520	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption — Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U521	Good evening, honourable Members, colleagues! At its meeting on 3 March this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” (No. 508/Lp13) at second reading. Two proposals have been made. 1. a proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission was in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U523	2. also submitted by the Legal Office of the Saeima. The Commission also supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U525	From... On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U526	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” at second reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U527	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” at second reading: for – 87, against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U528	Thank you. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U529	The deadline for the third reading of the proposals is 7 May 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U530	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Chemicals Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Arturs Rubiks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U531	Good evening, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Chemical Law”. This draft law concerns decoding. The commission responsible examined the draft legislation at first reading and supported it. Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U532	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on chemicals law! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U533	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Chemicals at first reading: for - 86, there are no votes against and abstains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U534	Thank you. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U535	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 April this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U536	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Arturs Rubiks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U537	Colleagues! We work with document number 2237 – Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety. The committee responsible examined the draft legislation at second reading and examined seven proposals. 1. – the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelis Linkaitis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U539	2. – Legal Bureau proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U540	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U541	3. – Legal Bureau proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U542	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U543	4. – Legal Bureau proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U544	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U545	5. – a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U546	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U547	6. – Legal Bureau proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U548	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U549	And seven. – Legal Bureau proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U550	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U551	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U552	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety” at second reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U553	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety” at second reading: for – 87, against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U554	Thank you. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U555	The deadline for proposals is 28 April this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U556	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Pharmaceutical Law”, second reading. Member Ilmārs Dūritis on behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U557	Good evening, dear colleagues! The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs has examined amendments to the Pharmaceutical Law at second reading. I would remind you that the purpose of the draft law was to ensure... and to ensure the codification of administrative irregularities in the pharmaceutical sector. To the second reading, the Commission received six proposals. All the proposals submitted were editorial. And that's it. 1. a proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U558	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U559	Proposal No 2 Filed by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U560	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U561	Proposal No 3. Filed by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U562	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U563	Proposal No 4. Filed by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U564	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U565	Proposal No 5 Filed by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U566	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U567	Proposal 6. Also presented by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U568	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U569	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Members... The Saeima will support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U570	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals” at second reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U571	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals” at second reading: for – 84, not against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U572	Thank you. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U573	The Commission is asking for a deadline for the third reading to be set for 30 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U574	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 30 April this year. Dear colleagues, Members Feldman, Jušas, Budriķis, Muižniece and Kazinovskis ask to continue the extraordinary session of 23 April this year without interruption until 19.00 and then to announce a break until 10 a.m. on 24 April. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. We continue to work continuously until 19.00. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U575	Dear Members, This opening in the Law on Electronic Media began from the National Security Commission. And initially, I remind you, it also talked about national security issues, giving more powers to both NEPT and involving the security services in the evaluation, in order to first tell the true beneficiaries more clearly... set... and also strengthen the country's unfriendly... unfriendly, well, let's say... make it easier to close these... organisations that do not do what we do here in Latvia would like. And for the second reading, two proposals have been tabled, which were... 1. is Member Dagmar Beitnere-Le Gallas... which was also further supplemented by the only difference in the Commission's proposal and said that in the future 80 per cent of the content of the television programme in its original package should be made up of the official languages of the European Union and, as I said, the Commission transformed it not only into the official languages of the European Union, but also as the official languages of the countries of the European Economic Area. The Commission heard a lot of experts and spoke to everyone... all interested and non-interested organisations, while, of course, recognising and... the fact is that these proposals are about the basic package that is being presented. What is then chosen... chooses the operator to offer for money – this is another question. The Commission... The majority of these proposals were also supported by the Commission. So it's 1. - a proposal from Member Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U576	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U577	Dear colleagues, Of course, limiting hostile propaganda is a legitimate aim, but unfortunately the proposal will not achieve this goal, on the contrary – it will achieve exactly the opposite. This is very beneficial for the Kremlin's propaganda. Mr Kučinski rightly said that there were consultations. And all the industry involved in this particular action made it very clear what will happen as a result of the adoption of this amendment. Very short. First of all, this applies only to cable TV operators, which currently occupy around a third of the market, and which are all registered in Latvia and are Latvian companies. This does not apply to satellite and internet television operators that are not Latvian companies. So it puts our operators at a disadvantage. Most important. If operators are forced, however, to reduce the number of Russian channels, of course, they will first turn off those independent and opposition channels that have a smaller audience and keep the so-called Cream channels that have very colorful shows, new films and so on (intermediately.) and which is much more popular. Thus, as a result of the adoption of these amendments, independent and opposition channels in Russian will become less accessible to Latvian viewers than is currently the case. ( Milestones.) That is why I argued that exactly the opposite will be achieved. Our operators will lose part of their customers because of the lack of content and this will make their services more expensive. They will also be forced to include several cheap channels in Greek, Portuguese and Norwegian, which no one is looking at to achieve its proportions, and this is not cost-effective, and it will achieve exactly the opposite of the political result. I very much invite you to go into the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U578	Thank you. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U579	Indeed, the aim of this proposal is to reduce the availability of disinformation and propaganda in Latvia. Disinformation and propaganda have a negative impact on and destabilised information spaces of both Latvia and other countries. However, with this proposal there is a risk that the instrument chosen will not achieve this objective. The proposal provides for the classification of programmes by language, automatically placing in the category of suspicious both programmes controlled by the Kremlin and those offering an independent alternative view, such as the West Oriented Channel, Djdj. By setting a limit by language features, operators in business logic dictates to leave the most viewable, but remove the least viewable. As a result, we will receive a basic package of the Kremlin propaganda without independent Russian channels. Therefore, to the third reading, I will propose an alternative version, which will separate not according to the language, but according to the law, by limiting the channels that have been punished by the ban on retransmission over the previous three years. In my opinion, such a measure will target the target more precisely and will not cause undesirable effects. This Saeima significantly strengthened the NEPP capacity, monitoring capacity last autumn. So I also hope that we will see this strengthened capacity more actively at the NEPSP – monitoring, evaluation and gardening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U580	Thank you. Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U581	Good evening, colleagues! My proposal proposed that we define in law the criteria to be met by providers of television programme distributors, because this is just a basic package, and that is something that our constituents expect of us. And I would also like to say that this amendment of the law – the criteria introduced directly – is already being resolved by the Saeima for six years. We have the opportunity to change the culture of these basic packages. And I want to emphasise again – this does not prevent retransmission of Russian channels in a separate offer, which people also pay for separately. And I don't see an opportunity here to insult Latvia's country in an undemocratic way. We are a democratic state, we do not prevent the diversity of information, but the state must set these standards by law, because we see that we live in a hybrid war. I would like to say that we would also reduce the suspicion of a cartel that actually exists between television parcel distributors, because these programmes are offered from Russia with a certain mandatory demand, which must be in the minimum basic envelope. I think it is a duty of the state to correct this situation and also the culture of television programmes, because it is our task to build the identity and belonging to the European cultural and media space of the country's citizens. I asked for my proposal so in this... reject the first, but I call for the vote in favour 2. – commission proposal and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U582	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U583	Colleagues, I'll remind you again. There is no such concept as the ‘basic package’. Each operator is entitled to determine such a package itself. And there's no right for us to interfere in business until some certain limit and now dictate businessmen how... which will be in the main side and which will not. Mrs steel has said very well that this regulation will not achieve its objective, but I would like to talk about one more thing. Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas talks about hybrid war conditions, but we're here now... all day the opposition talked about the Covid-19 war conditions that are right here in Latvia. And I'm very sorry that you're ready to debate hybrid war, about language, about cable... for everything, but not just how to help our Latvian people in real terms. I also congratulate you on this and hope that this is your last Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U584	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U585	Dear colleagues, Whatever you don't think... but I am convinced that propaganda, all forms of propaganda, can only be fought against quality local content. Only in this way can you eliminate some of the lies that are spread about our country. In reply to Mrs Steela's reply that she will submit some amendments to the third reading in the hope of punishing someone... Well, I hope that Mrs Steel has already apologised to the Hungarian Ambassador for spreading false information about the decisions taken by the Hungarian Government, because in practice what Mrs Steel is dreaming of is the same as what Mrs Steel criticised the Hungarian Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U586	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U587	I would just like to make a small remark. I even think that not so much of the content that we will show will affect our people's perceptions, but the state that we will build, the level of prosperity that we will ensure here that what someone else tells us about us is inconceivable, ridiculous or different. I very much doubt that, let us say, a citizen of another country who lives there and enjoys the welfare of Switzerland is embarrassed by the propaganda of another country as to how he is going in Switzerland. If you notice, there will be no specific propaganda about Switzerland, because it is clearly pointless. So I think we think more about how we will overcome this crisis, how we will build a welfare state. Not in some basic package or in any other package, we'll have some channel.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U588	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U589	Good evening, colleagues! Firstly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are talking precisely about the basic package, because I remember that after the commission meeting there was a question for journalists whether it was true that Russian channels would be banned. The story is about the basic package or the first offer. And it is very, very important to understand that we are not talking about banning channels. That's one. The other one I want to draw your attention to. I understand that we have some colleagues who intend to improve this rule. That's very, very good. But it is also interesting for me to see and understand how they are going to vote, because now we have adopted amendments at second reading. In order to be able to improve something, it is important to support the norm, and then we will be able to work at third reading. But if colleagues who intend to table something now vote 'no' or abstain, then it means that they will simply deny us the opportunity to work at third reading, because editorial amendments can be made to the third reading. You can do something exactly then. Consequently, I call on my fellow Members, although those who may doubt the wording are currently voting in favour, and if you have good proposals, as you can write better, to submit them, and before the third reading we will be looking directly at them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U590	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U591	I will say this very slowly: there is no definition of a "core package". Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U592	Thank you. I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U593	The Commission calls for this not to be supported, but to support the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U594	Does one of the Members wish to vote on proposal 1, which the proposer also called for not to support? So no one wants.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U595	And 2. – A proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. I've been supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, it is only possible to point out what Mr Cilevič said: it was not that all operators were denying... the attitude shown in our debate, given that this is indeed the first offer that is usually the cheapest, but which does not rule out the possibility of subsequently offering something more. The mention of Djdj, which many are operating on this issue, is, by the way, not fundamental to any operator. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U596	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U597	Dear colleagues, You're talking very well, but you don't seem to be listening at all. I will repeat, for the third time, what Mrs Liepaja has already said: there is no concept in legislation such as the 'basic package'. If you think of the eight mandatory programmes that each operator must have in any package free of charge, it is not a basic package. In fact, you... there are no Russian programmes at all and no percentage can be said. Here... so what you think as a basic offer is also about money. From this point of view, there is no difference between Djdj and First Baltic Channel and so on. As far as the industry is concerned... Indeed, some supported it. It was supported by those operators that were not subject to that provision, which did not act as cable television operators... That's why... But all who practiced this work were absolutely in agreement. And it is absolutely wrong – to focus on the language. These restrictions, for example, will not apply to Russia Today, which is the main resource of propaganda, but they will really apply to independent channels. And, Mr Judin, I really do not understand why a normal proposal could not be made again for the third reading. Your coalition has done this on several occasions. When you need it, it does not embarrass you that any fundamental amendments should not be tabled for the third reading. This amendment will not work. This will achieve exactly the opposite result, and I think that those people who are responsible for propaganda in Moscow will be very grateful to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U598	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U599	Colleagues, this is the time when you really should listen to what Mr. Cilevič says, because you obviously want... Well, you want to do something good, but you don't understand that you're going to do exactly the opposite. And this will be the next “false” law, where you will want to stick to your shoulder and say, “What kind of people we have, we are now fighting there against hybrid war!” And so on, and so on, but it's not. That is definitely not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U600	I closed the debate. Is there any more to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U601	On behalf of the Commission, I call for simple support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U602	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – the proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U603	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on proposal 2: 65, 20 and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U604	Thank you. The proposal is supported. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U605	Right, second. Yeah. I call for the second reading to be voted on.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U606	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U607	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” at second reading: for – 67, against – 18, abstains – no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U608	Thank you. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U609	April 30th.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U610	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 30 April this year. The third reading of the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate “ Jaundīviņas” in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P53 Duchi–Limbaži” On behalf of the Legal Commission, is Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U611	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 15 April 2020, the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P53 Ducci–Limbaži” was discussed. For the implementation of the reconstruction project of the P53 Duchiu–Limbaži section of the national regional road from 18,35 to 26,15 km, it is necessary to dispose of the part of the land unit of the real estate “Jaunduviņas” within an area of 0,3 hectares and part of the area of 0,01 hectare in Limbažu municipality. These parts of the real estate are disposed of for the development of transport infrastructure and the disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. Discussions about the voluntary disposal of real estate “Jaunduviņas” in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality have been taking place for several years. On 15 January 2020, the State Joint Stock Company “State Roads of Latvia” sent a letter to the owner of real estate on behalf of the Ministry of Transport offering for a change of part of the land unit. By letter dated 31 January 2020, the owner gave up that offer in full because he wanted to obtain a larger real estate. The Limbaži Municipality Council offered four plots of land to change. Since no plot of land equivalent to the property to be disposed of was available, larger plots of land were offered. On 31 January 2019, a letter from the owner was received containing a number of questions that are not related to the above-mentioned offer without replying in substance. At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 11 February of this year, the representative of the owner indicated that the immovable property offered is incomparable by rejecting the offer in essence. Another option was to offer cash compensation in line with the valuation of the real estate. The owner agrees with the assessment of the immovable property in so far as the full amount of the valuation is paid for all immovable property which does not comply with the requirements of the law, taking into account that the State can buy back only the part of the immovable property necessary for disposal. Also, in view of the fact that the owner did not agree with the above-mentioned offer, the Limbažu Municipality Council sent the owner a letter with an exchange offer to the municipality’s agreed land in Vidrižu municipality, Limbažu municipality. The municipality set a deadline for replying on 15 March 2020. The Legal Commission received a letter of 6 March 2020 from the owner of the real estate “Jaunduviņas” in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, which states in essence that the reply will be given within that time limit. At the remote meeting of the Legal Commission on 15 April 2020, the Limbažu District Council informed that no reply had been received from the owner. Also, at the meeting of the Legal Commission of April 15, 2020, Ainārs Liniņš, representative of Lādes piens Ltd., indicated that four plots of land belonging to Lādes pienas Ltd. were offered for the change. In this case too, no agreement was reached, given that Eduards Duvins wanted additional funding of EUR 35 000. Lādes piens Ltd did not agree to such a condition, indicating such a claim as disproportionate. No favourable agreement was reached on the disposal of the real estate “Jaunduviņas” in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, parts for public needs with the owner of the real estate Eduarda Dūviņa. No proposal was submitted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 95 of the parliamentary roll. The Legal Commission has supported the third final reading. I also call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U612	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P53 Duchiu–Limbaži” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U613	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P53 Ducci–Limbaži” at the third reading: for – 81, against – 3, refrains – no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-23-PT13-2066-U614	Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Time for notification. The president of the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, Andris Skride, asks to announce that the meeting of the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs is due to take place tomorrow, April 24, at 9 a.m. Dear colleagues, Time to break. So we will continue the Saeima meeting tomorrow, April 24, at 10 a.m. Thank you. ( Interruption)
