ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U1	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let us begin the sitting of the Saeima on 20 February this year, in which we will discuss the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 20 February this year. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” to be included on the agenda of the sitting and for the draft law to be included under the section “Review of draft laws” as the first item of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Jurash, Neighbours, Strike, Beitnere-Le Galla and Rancāns are asking for the draft law on the parliamentary roll to be put on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Jušaks, Kaimiņš, Strīķe, Beitnere-Le Galla and Rancāns are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the law “On Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procurement of Public Service Providers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Land Vehicle Owners” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to the transmission of the draft law? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Stepanenko: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Who has reservations? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Man!” ) Member Stepanenko. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Accounting”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -5, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please turn on the microphone for Richard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U2	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I urge you to change the commission responsible by stating that the Foreign Affairs Commission is the commission responsible for specific amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U3	Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Foreign Affairs Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Yes!” ) Who? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Man!” ) Member Gobzem has reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Foreign Affairs Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes... Please also change the tab! Thank you. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Pyrotechnic Products” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Environmental Impact Assessment” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Water Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Copyright Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Members of the Parliament be referred to the Legal Commission by way of an amendment to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, stating that they are the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak to Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U4	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, According to the statement of the draft law ‘Amendment to the parliamentary order roll’, this draft law is necessary in order to impose restrictions on former members of the Saeima, ‘... in respect of which international or national sanctions have been imposed or sanctions imposed by a Member of the European Union or a member of the North Atlantic Treaty’, visit the Saeima buildings. In turn, according to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia, adopted by us, according to the first paragraph of Article 11, only... ( Listen!) - only ‘financial and civil penalties imposed by United Nations Security Council resolutions and sanctions imposed by European Union regulations shall be binding and directly applicable in the Republic of Latvia’. And neither NATO nor NATO Member States are mentioned here. These amendments are therefore not in line with the current legal framework. In addition, the parliamentary order roll is already under discussion at the Legal Commission, where there is every opportunity to submit proposals on behalf of the committee. I call for this draft law not to be supported... the transmission of this draft law to the Commission, because it is contrary to the current legal framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U5	“On” has applied to speak Member Juris Jušaks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U6	Dear colleagues, Given that the draft laws “Amendment to the parliamentary order roll” and “Amendment to the law “On the Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia” are interrelated, I will talk about both right away. The rule of procedure of the Saeima shall be defined as the basic duty of a Member of the Saeima to participate in the legislative process. Everyone here is aware that a Member of the Saeima has an obligation to represent the interests of the people and to adopt appropriate laws. Is any of the people here really prepared to say that the quality of the legislative process, which is in the public interest, is capable of being provided by Members who have been subject to international or national sanctions? Unfortunately, such rights are still laid down in the law both for former members of the Saeima and for the members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia who voted in favour of the declaration of May 4, 1990 on the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Latvia. They are free to visit the Saeima building, to be present at Saeima sittings, as well as to participate in events organized by the Saeima. Is the participation of those who have been subject to international sanctions in the legislative work what Latvia is ready to be proud of? Are the Members here able to ensure that the legislative process meets the standards of a modern, democratic, legal state? The Law on International and National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia applies to all persons. And they have a duty to respect and enforce international and national sanctions. It is also the duty of the legislator to ensure such a legislative process, which does not allow the unlawful influence of individual persons on the legislative power, thus promoting public trust in the legislator and travelling the prestige of the Saeima. International organisations and national sanctions are largely imposed for political and security reasons. Thus, by providing the possibility to persons against whom specific international or national sanctions have been imposed, to visit the Saeima without restriction and to participate in the work of the Saeima, the legislator endangers the process of qualitative legislative process and allows the participation of persons whose presence is not permitted in the work of the Saeima. For the legislator to be able to demand that the public comply with the laws it adopts, it must create confidence in the legislative process that the adoption of the laws has taken place in a fair, transparent and respectful manner. Please support the referral of the draft law to the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U7	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The transcripts are: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendment to the parliamentary order roll”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 12, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia” presented by Member Jurša, Kaimina, Strīķe, Beitneres–Le Gallas and Rancāns” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak to Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U8	Dear colleagues, As the previous speaker said, the draft law “Amendment to the parliamentary order roll” and the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia” are interrelated. And we have just witnessed how the so-called double moratorium works. In particular, a person who is, let us say, on the sanctions list must not participate in the Saeima, I would not even like to say in the work; he must not even visit the Saeima buildings, but at the same time a person... The double morale is that a person subject to criminal prosecution may speak from the Parliamentary Tribunal, because it was just a judgment of the Constitutional Court... ( The box “Yes! ”) ) But, in principle, we can see here that this draft law, which I am talking about at the moment, is aimed at only one person, whose led political party in the Saeima is represented by three Members and is currently in opposition. In particular, this draft law is aimed at Aivars Lembergs, former member of the Supreme Council and long-term head of Ventspils city municipality and party “Latvia and Ventspils”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “No!” ) And at this point, I think we see the way in which the funding provided by Mr Meroni before the elections is opened up. I would also like to mention that Aivars Lembergs is one of the members of the Supreme Council who were not afraid (I stress - not afraid!) On 4 May 1990, voting in favour of the declaration on the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Latvia. But it was a time when nothing was yet clear, and no one could predict the consequences of this vote! In addition, sanctions are currently being mentioned and discussed in the public space, although no one has seen documents on such sanctions. There is only a press release in the United States, but there are no documents, either issued in the United States or in Latvia. Annotated by the draft law, the compliance of this draft law and legislative practice with the standards of a democratic and legal state is mentioned. But the draft law does not comply with them, because it is contrary to Article 92 of the Satversme, which states: “Everyone is to be considered innocent until his fault has been recognised in accordance with the law.” In addition, the argument states that there has not been any events (I stress - no ones!) consultations in the course of the drafting of the law. On the other hand, Article 2 of the Satversme, which we see here on the wall, states: “The sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia.” So it states that the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia, not to the United States, NATO or the European Union. Finally, I would like to recall three Latvian proverbs. First of all, God is not a little child. Secondly, the mill of God is slow, but good. And thirdly, whatever's rocking the other hole, it's itself falling into it. I call for no support. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Budriķis: "Now the group's sittings will be outside the parliament!" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U9	Colleagues! So we have to vote in favour of passing the draft law on to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia” to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Boris Cilevič on 13 February 2020. Member of the Saeima Boris Cilevičs has asked for unpaid leave on 13 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U10	Hello, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” was reviewed by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. The Commission has examined and concluded that the draft law needs to be identified as a matter of urgency. I therefore call for a vote to be taken on the urgent nature of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U11	Colleagues! Or... Is that so? The Commission therefore calls for a vote to be taken on the urgent nature of the draft law. Mrs. Blue, you want to talk about urgency? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, against - 3, refrains - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U12	So thank you for your support. The Commission examined and supported the draft law on excise duty introduced by the Group's CPV LV. So the draft law is prepared and presented as a response to the decision taken by Estonia to reduce excise duty on alcohol. Last year, the Saeima decided to reduce the tax until 29 February of this year in order to make sure that the forecasts of the impact of Estonian excise policy on Latvian alcohol sales are true. To sum up the last quarter of last year, it has to be concluded that the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance experts have been met: the total budget for 2019 has not been implemented by 28.4 million. In order to mitigate the negative impact on the state budget and promote competitiveness among the Baltic States, it is necessary to adjust the current regulation and provide for a more gradual increase in excise duty rates. This is provided for by this draft law, which proposes to raise the excise duty rate by an average of 5 per cent per year, rather than by 30, as is currently the case. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U13	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U14	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima, the Bureau and colleagues! Last summer, we reduced our excise duty on alcohol by 15 percent. The only argument that convinced me to vote in favour at that time was the time limit for the reduced rate of duty until March of this year, when excise duty would increase again not only by the reduced 15 per cent but by law by 30 per cent. We have voted that this measure is only intended as a short-term solution for seven months and it is only necessary to stabilise and protect our economy by providing for a significant fall in revenue. Six months have passed, the renewed tax legislation after 10 days must come into force. But we don't know why we at the Saeima are looking at the proposal not to raise excise duty back, as currently written in the current law. What has changed in these months? Why is there now a proposal that offers only 5 per cent instead of a 30 per cent increase? It is seven times less than planned. The financiers have, of course, counted... at what percentage... How much more Latvia will collect taxes, but no one has calculated how much more alcohol will be consumed, how much more it will lead to deterioration of public health, the increase in alcohol-induced deaths and the increase in medical expenditure in the end. The Disease Prevention and Control Centre regularly publishes thematic reports “Dispersion and Effects of Alcohol Use in Latvia”. The latest is in 2017, when the tax rate, by the way, was higher than that proposed by the applicants. And the text of the reports is publicly available. I will name just a few facts of this. Here's what the situation was in Latvia a few years ago. In 2017 in Latvia, every three days someone died of alcohol poisoning in Latvia. Together, they were 117 inhabitants of Latvia. On the other hand, 648 Latvians died of a disease directly related to alcohol consumption in the same year. Perhaps most of those who sit there do not seem to think that every fourth death was classified as alcohol - induced among young people between the ages of 20 and 39. I want to focus a little on alcohol and driving. Over the last three years, more than 12 thousand administrative infringements protocols have been drawn up on Latvian roads for drivers who had sat under the steering wheel. The number of road fatalities was the fifth highest in the European Union and the highest in the Baltic States. In traffic accidents caused by alcohol or intoxicating substances, 12 people died, while 244 were injured. There are also some facts from the data collected by the Emergency Medical Service. In 2017, 14 percent of all calls for emergency assistance were at patients with alcohol... such a high level of dizziness or poisoning that required medical intervention. It should also be noted that the consequences of excessive or risky alcohol consumption are also a significant financial burden for the health budget. The vote in favour of this draft law will be a vote against public health. You should be the other way around. Once, this Saeima has already shown that it does not care for medical doctors and their remuneration. With this bill, we would send a clear message that this Saeima does not care about public health either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U15	Name to Member Ivar Pug.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U16	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! It must be said, unfortunately, that once again economic decision-making depends not on economic calculation, but on political vaults. If the rapid increase in excise duty is motivated by care for the health of the people, then... Is it to be understood that, the cheaper the alcohol, the more people drink? Should it be understood that if in Germany alcohol is cheap, then the German people are in real danger? But no! Therefore, I think we should rather think about how to prevent the reasons why people want to drink. ( Insight: “Why do they want? ” ) And one of these reasons is - more money in our common wallet. And then we can also invest this money into the health of the real people. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U17	The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U18	So I will be happy to explain to our group why this draft law should still be supported. It is not just from one perspective that we need to talk about here. The benefits are to be discussed here: benefits for the economy as a whole, for public health as well as, yes, for the public budget. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece–Ozola: “Public health?” ) It is also necessary to take into account the circumstances in which we are at the moment - not only domestic but also foreign policy. The draft law not only provides an opportunity to remain competitive in the Baltic region, but also not to destroy the country's jobs at the border, to mitigate the negative impact on the budget, from which, by the way, the health sector is also financed. The rapid increase in excise duty is not a solution to reduce daily alcohol consumption. In order to reduce daily consumption, there are other instruments, such as the education of the new generation in school steps, creating a favourable socio-economic environment. Excessive alcohol consumption is a devastation not only for the individual but also for society as a whole. We can only help those who are conscious of their problem. If consumption is excessive, then addiction is formed, and that is the truth. Just as addiction can be solved if an individual is aware that it is a disorder. These people then need to be helped, and the revenue from excise duty in the state budget makes it possible to do so. Rapid price increases will contribute to "creativeness" in the population, replacing more expensive with cheaper and certainly no better quality products. Without supporting the proposed changes, in fact, in the longer term, we will not only bring about a faster deterioration in the health of the population, but will also lose funding to help those who are aware of their weaknesses and want to fight it. The destruction is easy, can be done quickly and easily. Restoring and building again is long and costly. I therefore call for support for the proposed compromise at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U19	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U20	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High honourable Members! However, I would like to draw your attention to some aspects. We have a proposal... actually not the proposal, but... The draft law is based on this motivation of financial and state budget revenue. I think we're getting... If we think that by using more alcoholic beverages, we get more revenue from such activities in the state budget and then we correct or improve people's health for this money, which is the result of consumption of alcohol, excessive alcohol consumption, then we, you want or don't want to, get into the vicious circle. Because it is wrong to think that by promoting consumption, reducing the price of alcoholic beverages (Dep. I. Benhena-Beeken: “Consumer is not encouraged!” By promoting accessibility, more use will result in higher tax revenues... And then we will continue their health after a certain stage of alcoholism, save them. Unfortunately, this is not happening! Latvia is not a unique country, and for us statistics are the same as in other countries as everywhere in the world. Statistical data must be believed. Research must also be believed. The recommendations of the World Health Organization, based on specific observations and evidence in other countries, make it clear that an increase in alcohol excise duty of 10 percent on average reduces alcohol consumption by 5 to 7 percent. Are we a country that wants to reduce alcohol consumption? I. Benhen-Beeken intersidentials.) - Are we not? In my opinion, we are a country that is accountable to its citizens and we want to reduce alcoholism. My colleague, Dace Bluķe, listed a few figures of how many people, for example, die every year from the effects of alcoholism. How many may not go to the doctor at all? And then these cases are not recorded at all. I would like to say a few figures specifically for young people. Research data show that it is among young people that alcoholism... that alcohol consumption is falling directly among young people when alcohol prices are rising. Because for us, colleagues, it really is not worth working with those people who... Well, actually, hope that alcohol will no longer be consumed by those who have already reached the point of alcohol dependence. Of course, excise duty on them... We can raise one hundred times of excise duty, but they will still find an opportunity to get another dose of alcohol. But we need to think about young people who try to drink for the first time. For example, the 2015 survey shows clearly... When surveying students, 32 percent say that beer for them is very easy, 33 percent of cider can get very easy, 26 percent - quite easy. And even the strong alcoholic drinks these students... The survey shows that 25 percent of them can be obtained very easily. So there is the question of the availability of alcohol. There are, of course, appropriate advertising, there are other restrictions, there are appropriate packaging, there is a ban on selling young people and students, but it is still... it's still... For example, a person 18 or 19 years old or 20 years old who has the right to buy alcohol himself... However, it is also a story about the price of alcohol. We can already build the country's economy and our business on Estonian alcohol consumption indicators, colleagues. But I think it's neither ethical nor sustainable. And... In my opinion, we had a good excise law, which clearly and lightly provided for an increase in excise duty on alcohol in recent years. And now, with 13. The Saeima, we're actually starting to... August last year basically... Well, we actually spoil this good intention, how to move forward, away from this big problem of alcohol and alcohol consumption in the country. I therefore call for this, as a minimum, increase in excise duty, because it will not in any way be in favour of public health, it will not be in favour of improving health. It will also not be in favour of the plan drawn up by the Ministry of Health to combat alcoholism. In a letter the Ministry of Health invited the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia not to support the submitted draft law and maintain the existing rates, which will enter into force from March of this year. Therefore, colleagues, I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U21	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U22	I would like to talk a little more about this subject - not only about whether we need cheap or expensive alcohol, but also about what values different political forces represent in Parliament. And in this case, I put emphasis on Development/About! You publicly define that you are a liberal political power, that you represent a liberal policy. In my view, liberal is one that does not prohibit, restrict, reduce, raise taxes, but, on the contrary, supports... A person who supports entrepreneurs, supports free love, supports low taxes. Liberal policy does not raise taxes in any country of the world. In our country, actually liberal politics means that: if you say that you are gay, then it is liberal politics. All the rest, we can do as perfectly as we can... left... left-wing political power, in fact as a force with a social-democratic (at best) orientation. That is the political debate on taxation! And so on. In fact, you do not defend the values that you preach to yourself. This is not a liberal policy. What's important... I think when you offer such a solution... It's clear... I fully agree with the fact that there are very sad statistical indicators of alcoholism in Latvia. But you offer a solution... Instead of limiting and reducing alcoholism, you offer a solution that would harm a local entrepreneur who would harm businesses, employees and so on working at the border. Why do you not offer alternatives to do something else for those people, along with such an offer, if it comes to you? Number one. Number two. Why don't you limit alcohol sales in petrol tanks? Why do you limit alcohol sales, such as on holidays and in such a spirit? One more detail. Just a detail. Relatively detailed, if we talk about alcoholism and alcohol taxes. I would call France or Spain an example. We can't imagine the situation... I think that that government would automatically fall into a tributary and say that we would be making a huge tax on wine, that we would limit alcoholism... Alcohol isn't... The amount of alcohol consumption does not depend on how expensive or cheap alcohol is, and Scandinavian countries clearly prove it. Maybe their internal statistics show that they buy less alcohol to themselves, but we know very well from life-based observations of how Finns go to get drunk to Estonia and how... how it is purchased in the vast majority of alcohol tax-free areas. Since this does not change the substance of the case from this point of view as well. Another issue that must be said with regard to alcohol. Such a proposal will in no way harm the large distributors of alcohol. It will only harm small and local... local economic operators. The harmfulness of alcohol and the desire of people to drink alcohol must in fact be addressed by other means. This is an educational issue. It's a question of the child's leg... how we deal with it. It is a question of how we make alcohol a clumsy thing. Just like smoking... anti-smoking campaigns that we actually make this issue a non-stylish one. This is a way to combat alcoholism and high alcohol consumption in the country, not by raising excise duties and actually destroying everything at the moment. The border almost exclusively deals with it. That's another thing. But especially... Reiterating, with particular emphasis, I want to... I want to remind you of Soviet times here in Latvia. If we talk about statistics and so on. Remember, in the territory of Latvia in Soviet times there was a dry law... was introduced. During the dry law, he drank for not grieving. There was no reduction in alcohol consumption. Restrictions cannot achieve anything, and that is the same comparison as, for example, in the United States, in those states where there is a more conservative audience, where there is, for example... where, for example, there are very, very strict values for a moral life, it turns out that there are more abortions than where people have fewer restrictions. When people are restricted and people are banned, nothing can be achieved unless they are educated. For those who want to buy alcohol will also find smuggled alcohol, and they will find smuggled cigarettes. As we know, for years the market has been traded. And in fact, such a single solution, without altering the conceptual approach to alcohol consumption... By the way, how could alcohol be restricted? Basically, as could be limited, to prohibiting supermarkets from working at all on Sundays. Much less - much less! - alcohol consumption would then be. Plus - so we would support small entrepreneurs, we would support the possibility of families being together outside supermarkets; we would support regions, we would support small pepperbodies in Riga. We would achieve much less alcohol on those holidays. I would buy homemade wine on those holidays, and so on. That would be a real proposal! We come together and ban supermarket activities on Sundays, as in developed Europe! In a developed Europe, you do not drive on Sunday and do not buy in supermarkets in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U23	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U24	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would like to say a few words about thinking about combating alcohol. We must honestly say that we really are not clear... We are changing this excise duty every year. We cut off in the summer, but the plan doesn't really work for us. Now we're going to lift a little. We're experimenting. I mean, I'd like to dissatisfie the kind of... statements that if we raise excise duties, then we will reduce this drinking with us. I would like to say one word to you about radicalism from Winston Churchill. He said: “When I was young, hot - tempered, radical, I gave myself a word not to drink alcohol until lunchtime. But now that I'm not so radical, I made such a promise – not to drink until breakfast time.” The main thing is: if you can take more from alcohol than alcohol takes from you, then it's not harmful to you as such. And now that illusion... thinking. I looked at a table of how the European Union has allowed promenade. Some countries have 0.3; mainly 0.5; Great Britain has 0.8. If we look at the statistics... It was mentioned here about car accidents... There's practically very little to do with alcohol. In Britain, with 0.8 promenades, there are several times fewer deaths, and roads are good, just... they are good everywhere, but they are much narrower than in Latvia. Deducting highways... So, in Scotland, Great Britain, there are very narrow roads, you're getting two cars... I'm on it. But there are no accidents. How can this be explained? Well, the United States mentioned here. I looked at the statistics. Remember, there were winter Olympics in Soltleixy. It is a Mormon area where alcohol consumption is limited. It turns out that there's 10 times more antidepressants in the pharmacy than in the rest of the United States! So something for those people isn't there if? They're compensating for something. Now for the Nordic countries. The Nordic countries in general and the situation. Finland has a state monopoly. In the European Union, allow... You may have two... You have to choose - either you have a monopoly on trade, or we have a monopoly... Let's say, a sale... So, in Finland, there's... system... Monopoly, state stores, very strict control, times. As a result, Estonia takes 300 million per year from Finland. It's their calculation. We're counting here how much we're at the border... Now we are surprised that they can finance higher education in Estonia. Maybe we need to count, as was the case before the war in Latvia, this excise tax in the cultural fund, maybe in the educational fund, if? And in some way, we're compensating this. What else have Finland done? If they fight so much against drinking... The Nordic countries... And we want to be closer to the Nordic countries. How then did they achieve such a privilege in the negotiations on accession to the European Union that the Netherlands is not a customs area for the European Union? What do you think they did? Because they had their spine, they taught them to defend their interests. So all the ships entering Mariehamn... there are tax-free shops, and those income is huge, and actually all just so also ride to enter there. Saturday, Sunday... Sweden. Sweden is quite famous. I've been there about twice a year. I'm practically... No, not even university professors... they themselves provide themselves with a high quality fermented drink... Massive. No problem. Luxembourg. Germany was mentioned here. That's not true, Germany... Well, in Germany, there's a land quite... But Luxembourg has twice as much excise duty. Luxembourg acts as a tax-free store in the European Union. So that's what... Everyone comes from Strasbourg or from Brussels, just like we say they went to Ainaži to buy, so all the diplomats of the European Union and all those who work there... And the officials... They always leave by car, recharge, say, for a month and live. Has Luxembourg therefore been drunk? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Full!” ) Yes! So it's not (Dep. A. Gobzems: “The neighbor as an expert knows!” )... There's nothing to do with it. But what do we do today? We in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission really... Well, we looked... We had, by the way, also given what was not distributed to all... The Ministry of Finance's estimates of how this income is to be fulfilled were given. True, of course, its predictions are not being fulfilled; it always misses its money. But the three largest breweries (and we had a representative of “Cēsu alus”).... You know, three... We have three big – Cēsu alus, Cido grupa, Agrofirma Tērvete, and then those 50 are small, which can have all kinds of discounts. Then the three big ones seem to agree with the compromise that they could now raise them five percent, that this is a moderate increase, and then we continue to analyse what will happen next, whether there is something going on or not going on... I think that this time we must support this project and continue to collect statistics on these data. But it would also be worth considering whether to do not (as pre-war experience showed, which was very successful) that in the Culture Capital Fund we transfer a larger proportion or create some educational funds, so that there is some good thing, because when we shed money, we do not feel like we do not... We say: “Drinks, drinks... “ but no results. So I call for my support to be passed on to the Commission. And then we'll see, maybe one year later, we need to re-examine its statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U25	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U26	Yes, colleagues! It is interesting to see this draft law here today - during this parliamentary term for the second time - on the condition that the government has generally said loud words that "we will not change taxes... I mean... and only once’. And this is proof that it has already happened twice. This is the second... the second change in taxes. I think the industry itself, well, is not particularly happy about that. And it also shows that such a clear vision of how to build a developed tax policy does not really exist for this coalition, such a contraction comes together. In fact, even Development/About! The attempt for cocoons was also another attempt to disrupt this tax. I will turn to “Development/About!” . Last time we talked about different types of excise duty, I mentioned a number of examples - so wine and so-called aicos. You let me know I'm late. This is your chance - the law is open. Give me your proposals, I'll wait. If this is not the case, the next time this law is opened, such proposals will come from my side. So that I call on you to take this opportunity. But in general, the story is known to everyone: the story about the border of Estonia and how our entrepreneurs will be going to be there, which is now quite successful... And these trades, let's say, influence range... it has actually gone even further, it has already reached Valmiera. As colleagues from Valmiera said here, a whole number of people are travelling from the beginning to Valmiera’s “Depo” and then entering these shops back on their way. Well... Well, beautiful! This is good for the economy, but at the same time, listening to the way in which this draft law was based - in particular, the border has been emphasised. And if you place such a special emphasis on the border, then especially those who do, and those who care about regional development, I call, when voting on this bill, to remember that the government is now moving to the Saeima and in the very near future our colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis will be given the Latvian National Development Plan. And that's one interesting document that you... would ask you to reflect... think about how you stand up for regional development. This National Development Plan, in the context of today's debate on border trade and the fact that care should be taken for citizens, those living at the border... I could reduce it to all those people who live further from Riga. And then what is written there? This National Development Plan has been put to public consultation to present it to the public, non-governmental organisations, and I think this document is particularly damaging. And it is regions that are destructive. I do not know how you have made it, the coalition in government, but the only thing that has been forgotten there is the regions. If we look at investments that are intended for the capital and the capital region, there is only a majority for Riga! If currently Riga is the most developed region throughout the European Union (in relation to the rest of the country), then you are only strengthening this development trend. In particular, I remember that Krišjānis Kariņš from this same platform talked about athletes in training clothes and that everyone should start training now. Then I imagine that's the situation: with such a National Development Plan, we will make Riga like this... such a fat veg. And regions - for simply boned figures that will fight for their survival. In my opinion, you are in a way contradictory when it comes to this law, about the regions, about the fact that there is an important development at the border. With one leg you... this direction, but with the other leg... You are about to completely destroy the regions of Latvia without giving them any hope for normal development. The opportunities that the capital now has in a European context when looking at the next multiannual budget are simply being shot down by such a National Development Plan. Riga's competitiveness, Riga's desire to fight for the European Union's common budget - with a budget of this kind that gives you just everything, the bubbles in your mouth one by one, it's simply destroyed. At the same time, nothing appears in the regions at all. Regional development needs simply do not appear in this development plan. The capital has been overheated. And you hope that Latvia will be able to play an effective role in this competition fight for the vast European funds that are outside direct grants? Sorry, there's nothing to fight for when you're fattened by Riga. She will take the arrows that you are offering to her at the moment, but the regions will be boned, dead, without any development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U27	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U28	Colleagues! Here again could be a harsh subject of time travel. It would be very interesting to return to the debates that took place during the summer. And not only in that debate, but also in that vote. I look more at Development/About! - Yeah. because its shouting speeches today do not, in any way, ultimately correlate with their vote: to reduce excise duty on strong alcohol. Now, 30 percent to build... But it's a secondary question. Primarily, I think... What would be important? That we draw some logical and reasonable conclusions from this excise ban on alcohol for the correlation between taxes and the economy and for decisions in much broader sectors, not just in the field of alcohol. And some of them, I think, are obvious conclusions to be drawn... We can argue long and wide and also various studies show that the availability of alcohol reduces its consumption, and one of the elements of availability is, of course, the price. Also, the limitation of sales time and so on. But it only works on one condition: if we are able to keep the level of smuggling so low that it does not significantly distort the market. If we say that stores are allowed to sell alcohol by 8 p.m., we must be able to ensure that they do not actually sell after 8 p.m. As we know, these daily shops with integrated cafes, as you say, provide trade for 24 hours, which, in turn, forced normal people who want to create their own business to close their shops. This is one aspect, but not the most important. Another aspect is tax stability. One of the worst things to do is to cut down taxes and, more importantly, to hope that we will notice any correlations during these stages while we get short. I know that it will now be argued that yes, from summer to... so far nothing significant has happened, in trade at the border, the price has not decreased for any reason, even though the tax has been reduced. Logically, just logically! If the businessman knows that the price will rise by 30 percent or more in March, the excise duty will rise, they will not move anything in particular. They understand that it is not in the long run, this difference in prices will level out, and they will try to earn the maximum that can be earned this half year, until again excise duties will be where they are. We once had a policy here: tobacco and excise alcohol had a stage over the years. No one objected, no tobacco, no alcohol... So the ladder went up. It is logical that I would be in favour of tobacco, for example, having even a triple excise duty than it is today. There was no problem. So maybe we could understand that tax is not just a tax; it is an economic tool. That is why I come to point 3. This saga of alcohol excise duty... It should have opened our eyes to such an absolutely basic logic in the economic processes, namely that there may be circumstances where a lower tax than a neighbouring country brings a positive economy. The Estonians showed us this elementary case. Not we were smart, but the Estonians did foolishly, raising the excise duty so high that this business - the sale of alcohol - moved to our border. I think it had to open up my eyes to other things, and not for alcohol I'm no longer here. We should understand that there is a time and place where targeted tax policies can bring about significant economic events. We could not just talk about how to sell alcohol at the border, but... If we have understood it in time and carried out its actions with tax policy, for example, Google and Amazon servers "saw down" in Latvia and not in Finland... With other instruments, we will certainly strengthen our economy much, much more, than the sale of the Snake in Wak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U29	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U30	Hello, colleagues! I don't know if you're being written by people listening to this live broadcast. It's written to me. A message just came from a listener about... He writes: “My friends became disabled when driving a car for drinking. Do something about this!” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Member of Unity Spolitis also drove to drink!” ) But in this case I would like to talk about planning and good legislation. The health aspect is one, and the other is the way we change and accept this tax, which I think deserves our attention, the Saeima. I well remember the day of July when we were surprised - in a coalition, in opposition and in society - by the statement by Krišjānis Kariņš that we must respond to the rapid reduction in excise duty by Estonia. We, the rest of the coalition parties, were... Well, it was a decision that had to be made very quickly. It was a hot day of July, we in the Saeima... On a break, remember, colleagues, we gathered in the Office of the National Alliance. Thank you for your hospitality. It was one of the few times when some of the coalition parties gathered together and thought about what to do, how we will respond to the rapid statement by the Prime Minister of this common new government, the newly formed government, and we decided to support it. And, including the New Conservative Party... or some Members... I remember, at that meeting, we talked about the fact that we can only support it temporarily in order to allow businessmen to reverse the new situation. And the other thing that came out of Mrs. Strike's role as Chairman of the Legal Commission at that time was... the fact that a law cannot be adopted on one day - at one reading and at a second reading - if it concerns important public interests. We see how we made a mistake with the bill... We recorded doctors' salaries, but we couldn't do it. And then we adopted the draft law in two readings (second reading in a week) based on good legislation. Today we want to adopt it and are ready to adopt it immediately one day. I was one of the few Members who voted against it. ( Interface: Riga City Council for five years!) ) The question of joint excise planning and what the Ministry of Finance thinks. I told my constituents... At that time, too, they were very excited why we support this reduction in a climate where people... human health is affected... and we hear those numbers, the numbers... that we are one of the nations that drink the most in the developed world. We don't want to hear that. People wrote to me, and I said that it will only be until March 1. We supported it only until 1 March, but it did not mean the Ministry of Finance, which (and we did not know it!) hadn't included it... this budget in its calculations. So that the power of coalitions and politicians is also... isn't always standing where it's... And the question is, if, on 1 March, we now have to change its rate... March 1 and March 1 will be 10 days later. We are currently talking only about strong alcohol while beer dealers knock at your door (right?) - at our door at least definitely - and says: “We will have excise duties, and strong alcohol will go on another plan.” This was one of the plans adopted by the previous government. We have criticised them, but thank you for that. But now we're mixing this plan. And if we are talking about the fact that we need to support our entrepreneurs, so we are looking at one side, and it is understandable that brewers say: “Do the Ministry of Finance and those who propose go with strong alcohol producers and traders?” But there is also another thing about supporting entrepreneurs. You know, Latvia doesn't have only one border with Estonia, Latvia has a few more borders. Kaija will not raise excise duty, but Lithuanian neighbours have planned a very serious increase in excise duty. They have already been accepted (Interior call.) These are the serious... And it's probably good news for those who will now build the same and similar shops in Beauty Hill, Girl and other points as they are at the border of Estonia. I am convinced that we cannot build an economy by hearing our people, and that public health is also part of the Latvian economy. Excise duty is not just an instrument of money-raising, budgeting, it is a tax on harmful habits. Mr. Kirštein, you had such great experience and insight. I would very much hope that at the time of looking at the budget, you will submit an addition, a proposal to address precisely these preventive health issues. If we already have one... This is... Well, much more money, as you said, then I'll really wait for it. Colleagues, I know that we can agree on other issues in this Saeima and coalition, but on this issue, as I see, both the most experienced and the least experienced colleagues are full of old cynicism - they want to do as they see themselves, and they want to deceive the people with arguments that are only half-real. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U31	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U32	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In 2018, when the tax reform was implemented, a gradual increase in excise duty... was a very clear task. In order to be able to reduce labour taxes and to be able to support companies by introducing new arrangements for reinvested taxes, excise duties had to be increased. In my opinion, it is very logical and to a large extent consistent with what many of you fellow Members have said in your pre-election programmes: "Let us shift the tax burden from labour to excise duties and consumption!" At the moment, what I see is that the authors of this bill have a big motif in their head, because some of the themes we heard today from this platform... The first one. ‘ The excise duty should be reduced as it takes care of the health of the population." Mrs. Iveta, seriously? You heard what you said? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Intersor of Benhen-Beeken.) The second motivation we have heard is'regional development'. Do we really want to build regional development on the Finnish alcohol shoppers in Valka? It could indeed be suspected that this is the only policy, given that the National Development Plan does not indeed contain any normal measure for regional development. Ibid. If you look at the criteria that have been set... We want to increase GDP per capita. How do we want to increase GDP per capita? It is most likely that people will leave and GDP will increase as the National Development Plan does not say that it is our task to keep the population in the regions constant. There is no saying there that we want to stop the evasiveness of the population from Valka, for example. The third argument is "business concerns". You could believe that too... But if we look at the fact that its business concerns are implemented by you in a regular change in tax policy (not even in a year but in a half year), then ask the same entrepreneurs how happy they will be if, for example, this draft law comes into force not on 1 March but on 10 March? A few days will be new... old rates, then there will be new rates. How much does this cost one businessman? For entrepreneurs. You take care of this draft law for traders at the border between Latvia and Estonia and not for Latvian producers. If you cared for Latvian producers, at the same time you would have really thought about the beer producers and the proportion between strong and less strong alcohol. You take care of the Latvian trader... for traders located at the border. Who owns those trading companies? Who owns merchants? Estonians! You care about Estonian entrepreneurs! Finally. If you seriously say that with a reduction in excise duty, you care about Latvian entrepreneurs, how will you explain those “genial” proposals that the micro-enterprises tax rate will be 40 percent in the future? This is a real concern!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U33	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U34	I think that the most tragic thing in this debate is in that part that we think that, being one of the poorest and most competitive countries in Europe, we will become the most competitive, richest in Europe, with the highest tax rates in virtually all areas, from labour to alcohol. That's not gonna happen. We're relatively... after a relatively small country in the territory, and we have as once a great opportunity, an excellent opportunity to take advantage of such a country. In fact, in such a country, we would become one of the richest countries with low tax rates in virtually any area. This would encourage our entrepreneurs... their competitiveness, and in that spirit. That's one thing. The other thing, Mrs. Voika! What you say: “We don’t want people to drive under the influence of alcohol!” , is exactly the same duality, Mrs. Voika, as you put that sticker on, that you're on medical salaries. The Parliamentary Culuares are already known and talk about the fact that we will be driven or are planning to lead the project with which we are refusing to place drunkards in custody. Although we are looking at countries where there is really intolerance to those who drive under the influence of alcohol, we see that they are automatically held criminally liable there. Automatic criminal liability on the first occasion! And regardless of the promenade! I think that intolerance to drinkers must be dealt with in this way, not from the tributary... By the way, your coalition partner Veiko Spolitis is also a drunkard. I don't think it's because alcohol was so cheap. And hardly would anything change from it if alcohol were expensive. The problem is quite different. Its problem is understanding and raising. Understanding the habits of alcohol consumption in our country. Yes, I agree - alcoholism is a huge problem in Latvia. Yes, I agree that because of alcoholism, most murders are committed in Latvia. Yes, I agree that alcohol consumption should be restricted. But I do not agree with it - and there is no evidence! - that alcohol consumption in each household will decrease with increased excise duty on alcoholic beverages. In this way, you will promote illicit alcohol trafficking, you will promote alcohol smuggling, you will promote less tax revenues in fact, you will encourage our businesses to become more competitive again, but you will not promote the restriction of alcohol consumption. And there is no statistical data to confirm, Mr. Dūrīsis, that such a trend would lead Latvian society to clarity and refusal of alcohol consumption. Ban alcohol in petrol tanks, ban gambling halls that consume alcoholic beverages! Shut down in the city of Riga! You will not find any metropolis in the world, any beautiful European city, each corner of which has gambling boxes, where you can buy alcoholic beverages. But you don't. You just hurt local entrepreneurs. And I call on you, however, to be liberal in nature rather than liberal in form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U35	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U36	Dear Mrs. Mourniece. Dear colleagues, In fact, only about half of our planet's population is drinking alcohol, the rest are not consuming alcohol (mostly for religious reasons or for other reasons). Alcohol is actually in such a top 3... along with smoking that causes... which is derogatory of health and leads to premature death. And even if we would now increase this tax by 15 percent, it would still be lower for us than it is in Estonia. I would like to emphasise a few more things compared to Europe. I really do! - I also heard from Mr. Kirštein many of this, from a medical point of view. He compared Luxembourg, with which we cannot compare our country at all. And according to the World Health Organization, the risk of dying with alcohol-related diseases in Latvia is seven times - seven times! - greater than that in the Mediterranean basin countries than in the countries of southern and western Europe. And its four main... four main problems... Then there are, of course, these injuries, various accidents. Then there is cirrhosis of the liver, which requires both liver transplantation, which we can't really do, and various liver diseases. The third is a variety of tumors, oncological diseases that are increasing, and also a variety of heart diseases, cardiovascular diseases. In fact, as early as 1992, European countries... The European Union has come up with an alcohol stop... an alcohol-reducing programme that has been sufficiently effective. There are 10 basic points. One of those 10 basic points is also excise duty. I call for the specific amendments not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U37	Thank you, colleagues. We're working on a break until 12.40, and then there's a break. The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U38	I forgot to say the most important thing I am thinking of these amendments. That is, I believe that a huge folly was done in the summer... above all in the section that we made strong alcohol more accessible than beer, then I think to do even more foolishness and, today, to raise the tax for some sector by 30 percent... And so "we'll change taxes once... and 2021", I call on us today to support this proposal and to return to some logical proportion of our own beer and strong alcohol for the only time that we will change, and to adopt a new position at that time. Today's support for this proposal is a return of the legislator to some sensible policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U39	Mrs Stepanenko, would you have 10 minutes to debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “It will be enough!” ) Name of Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U40	I would also like to respond to Mrs Reizniece-Ozola's criticisms by my fellow Members. It's so really that that patch... it's excise... Probably a reduction in excise duty - that's the only thing we have at all... You're actually saving. Well, that's regional development... What can we do that is the only thing we have?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We do not really have a strategy, and these colleagues - they are only able to play with excise duty: excise duty is applied, excise duty is removed... No plan already exists. That's the only one. And it's really. Also Valka small shops, as well as traders. Yeah, you're right. For them, for example, this rise in excise duty will be so dramatic that they will simply have to... I don't know, shut everything down and go live in the forest. People are desperate. It's one of... Of course, that's also... That is one aspect. On harmful habits - I really would like to recommend to Mrs Voika... I understand that you now want to form a working group on harmful tax habits. Well, you're already just taxing how to play, somewhere to add something. You asked Mr. Kirstein to take part in this... Put another point on the agenda, please, that this harmful habit for Members is not to keep your promises and deceive people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U41	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U42	Colleagues. I would just like to respond very briefly to those accusations which have said that nothing else is done - just working on an increase in excise duty and an increase in alcohol prices. That's absolutely stupid. The Ministry of Health has developed, as I said, a plan, and it is possible for everyone to get acquainted with it. The plan includes four action groups. The first is the reduction in accessibility, the second is marketing restrictions and price policy. Here, by the way, there will also be both advertising restrictions and various packaging volume restrictions. Third - monitoring of alcohol effects and indicator indicators. And the fourth thing, of course, is also the treatment and prevention of alcohol dependence. Then, colleagues, I also have such a question. It seems to me that we are entering a complete contradiction when we are debating here. You, very many who support this draft law, say that the price of alcohol and the increase in excise duty will, in fact, have no effect on consumption. Then why, when we look at the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, we say that we cannot increase excise duty because then there will be less budget revenue. If excise duties do not already affect alcohol consumption, then we already need to increase excise duties so that more countries can collect this money and also channel it to health care! There's some kind of double-moral here. Those who can afford, including members of the Saeima, to pay for alcohol to pay more! Let them pay more excise duty, and the public purse will come with revenue from the budget! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U43	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U44	On behalf of the Commission, thank you very much to all those present for such a meaningful and deep debate. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U45	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U46	I have a request for Members to allow them to see the draft law without re-examination. Does anyone have objections? ( The drug is noise. Substitution: “Do not allow!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U47	Members want to make proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U48	It's okay!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U49	Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U50	Proposals - 15 minutes after the vote in the Saeima. ( Interface: How many minutes?) ) 15!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U51	15 minutes, that's...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U52	View the bill in the second...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U53	Wait, wait, at 12.35... ; “15 minutes!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U54	Colonel 12.50.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U55	So at 12.50, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U57	And the timing of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U58	At the sitting of the Saeima on 20 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U59	So consideration - the Saeima on 20 February this year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “What is so late?” ; Subscription: “15 minutes!” ) Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes. Review at the Saeima sitting on 20 February this year. Draft law on amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Member Inese Voika. Mrs. Voika! ( Interface: “Well, don’t survive it! ” ; intermediate: “Do not want to work!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U60	Colleagues! We need to adopt the second, final, draft law on amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. No amendments were received to the second reading. ( Interface: “No amendments! There are proposals!” ) No proposals were received. Thank you. No proposals were received. I would remind you that the International Criminal Court of Rome is an international criminal court to which Latvia joined already two thousand... ratified these Statutes in 2002. And now, as time goes ahead, some amendments are needed. And... They're... No further amendments to Latvian legislation will be required, because we have written this law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “What are these amendments about?” ) What do I ask? ( Internouncing call.) The draft law is about...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U61	Thank you, thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Statute of the International Criminal Court of Rome at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! I request the registration of the presence of Members. Time for notifications. Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U62	High honourable group leaders! Please, five minutes to the Red Hall - to the Fraction Council! Meeting with the Bureau Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U63	Thank you. Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U64	Not registered: Arvil Asheraden, Jānis Adamson, Iveta Benhen-Beeken (Interface: Yes!) )... Yes, Anda Čakša, Inese Iksten, Ritvars Janson, Alexander Kirštein. )... Yes, Roman Money, Vita Anda Steel, Inese Voika )... Yes, Ivars Zarins and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U65	Thank you. Interruption until 13:40 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U66	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “On the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the Double Taxation of Income and Capital Tax and Prevention of Tax Abuse and Protocol thereof”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U67	Dear colleagues, Another draft law of the Foreign Affairs Commission, second reading. Convention between the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Saudi Arabia on Taxation and Double Taxation... issues. We examined at second reading in the Commission. No proposals were received. I hope that this law will strengthen the opportunity for our businesses to cooperate with each other. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U68	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the Double Taxation of Income and Capital Tax and Prevention of Tax Abuse and Protocol thereof” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Arms Movement Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aldis Blumbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U69	Hello, colleagues! At its meeting on 12 February this year, the commission responsible examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Arms Movement Act’ before its third final reading. Nine proposals were received in total. All these proposals are related to grammatical interpretation or editorial, including two proposals to link it with the Law on Administrative Responsibility at the moment of entry into force of the law... in the part and the part, separately... 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U70	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U71	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U73	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U75	4. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U77	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U79	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U81	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U83	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U85	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Of course, the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U87	I therefore call for support for the third, final, reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U88	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading draft law on Arms Movement Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 76, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U89	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” before the third reading and has received two proposals. Both of them come from the Legal Office, and both are supported. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U91	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U93	Given that all proposals have been supported by the Commission, the entire draft law has also been supported by the Commission. Request to support, colleagues, the draft law at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U94	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 79, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Account Register Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U95	Dear colleagues, This draft law and the next two are linked and in fact provide for a framework to improve the possibility of combating money laundering and terrorist financing. Draft law “Amendments to the Account Register Law” provides that news providers also provide information about the recipients of the individual safe service for entry in the Account Register. So far, there has been a requirement to provide such information only on bank accounts, and now such a requirement is extended to individual safes. At the same time, the draft law also provides for the right of the Consumer Rights Protection Centre, the Insolvency Control Service and the insolvency administrator to receive information from the account register for the performance of their functions. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U96	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Account Register Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 79, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U97	Proposals are expected by 5 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U98	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U99	This draft law provides that the State Revenue Service, as the administrator of the account register, has also access to information about individual safes and payment service provider existing in the use of the payment service provider and, in turn, has an obligation to provide such information to the State Revenue Service as the administrator of the account register. I also call for this to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U100	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 76, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U101	5 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U102	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 March this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U103	Yes, too, for this draft law, colleagues, the aim is the same as for the previous two draft laws - tighter control of financial resources. Here it is provided that the State Revenue Service, as the administrator of the account register, has also access to information about individual safes used by the credit institution client and the credit institution in turn has an obligation to provide such information. At the same time, the Consumer Centre also has opportunities to obtain this information for its functions. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U104	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 79, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U105	Two weeks too. 5 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U106	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U107	Dear President, Members! I would like to call for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media to be approved at first reading. This is a draft law submitted to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs by the National Security Commission, based on two... two previously adopted documents. The first is the law adopted on 20 June 2018... amendments to the same law, where the NEPT was granted the right to information on the actual beneficiaries and to respond. The second is a directive adopted on 14 November 2018 by the European Parliament and the Council, also known as the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. These proposals, which have been incorporated into the first reading, also show the order in which the NEPT should work in the future... and all of us together. I remind you. The problem of true beneficiaries - there was no mechanism to respond to it. It has only been said so far that there is a need to respond. The second problem was that the NEPT could not close certain channels that provided hateful information (or about terrorism or everything else). These proposals now clarify this. I will briefly tell you what the new order is. So the first problem is the real beneficiaries that need to be presented. And if they're not shown... As we know, this is a rather serious criminal offence. How will the NEPT determine this? NEPLP it will now, after these amendments, be done either if it is clearly visible, by itself, or on the basis of... based, in any case, on our security services and their reports and on the information at their disposal. It could also be received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior... for people subject to sanctions if they are owners of one of these media. In addition, one of the remarks that also clearly show the mechanism is that precise information and the underlying factors for such negative reports can be obtained by the court and only by the court if someone deprived of a licence or a retransmission permit applies for it. The second block that these changes are talking about is an opportunity to respond to, say, Latvia's hateful... hateful information, broadcasts and so on... or that that endangers the security of the country or is against our country as a whole. As we know, so far it was very easy to register somewhere else in Latvia, and in fact we were not present. According to the directive adopted by the European Commission and Parliament, which indicates the way in which Latvia reacts, it is possible to do so regardless of where the channel or broadcaster in question is registered... in any other country. It sets out a clear mechanism for the European Commission to be informed about this, how it should be answered, and, in my view, introduces much more arrangements, both on the national side, which must regulate these issues and, let me say, on the part of the broadcasters themselves, which understand what they expect and how it is being implemented. I call for support for these amendments at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U108	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 2 and for - 18. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U109	Deadline for submission of proposals - 25 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U110	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 February this year. Draft law “On education of children and young people in national defence”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U111	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined and conceptually supported the draft law “On Children and Youth Education in State Defence” at its meeting on 12 February. Why is such a law necessary? Currently, youth education in the field of national defence is regulated by the Military Service Law. The State Audit Office has also indicated the necessity of such a draft law. It has indicated that the education of young people for national defence requires a separate law. These issues are regulated in a separate regulatory act, in one place... Also for qualitative implementation of the new subject “Training of National Defence”. It is essential to ensure that those trained in national defence can serve as an example, inspire and motivate children and young people, and this draft law also lays down education and training requirements. Young guards, instructors who will implement the national defence training programme must acquire higher education and teacher qualifications, as well as... The courses set by the Minister of Defence. With regard to national protection training camps, which are to be visited voluntarily after the end of the school year, there is both the right for learners to wear new uniforms and the right to, for example, have the same health care conditions as young people. All these nuances are also covered by this bill. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined this draft law and has unanimously supported the first reading. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science, as co-responsible commission, has also examined the draft law and decided to conceptually support the first reading. I ask Members of the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U112	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On Children and Youth Education in State Protection” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - no, for - 2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U113	March 12th.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U114	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 March this year. The second reading of the draft law “On disposal of real estate “ Jaundīviņas” in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P53 Duchiu-Limbaži” On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U115	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 11 February 2020, the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P53 Ducci-Limbaži” was discussed. The section of the National Regional Road P53 Duči-Limbazi from 18,35. to 26,15. For a kilometre reconstruction project, it is necessary to dispose of the part of the land unit in the real estate “Jaunduviņas” (Interface: No proposals!) ) and part of the area of 0,01 hectares (Dep. J. Strike: “There are no proposals!” ), in the novads of Limbažu, in the novads of Limbažu. These parts of the real estate are disposed of for the development of transport infrastructure and the disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. After the meeting of the Legal Commission on 17 December 2019, the Ministry of Transport has repeatedly sought to conclude an agreement with the owner of the real estate for the voluntary disposal of the real estate. No agreement was reached. No proposal was submitted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 95 of the parliamentary roll. The Legal Commission has supported the second reading of the draft law. I also call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U116	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the bill (Dep. A. Gobzem: “But there are no trees in the occupation period?” ) “On disposal of real estate “Jaunduviņas” in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, parts for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P53 Duchi–Limbaži” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 2 and for - 17. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U117	The time limit for the submission of tenders shall be 6 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U118	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to law “On Judicial Power”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U119	Dear colleagues, These draft laws (three) on which I will report are interrelated. The first is the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”, which the Legal Commission has examined and prepared for the second reading. I will report on each proposal in turn. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. More editorialally. Although this draft law provides for the creation of the Economic Court, the proposal provides for a clear indication in the draft law of the Economic Court as the place of the district (city) court in the court system. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U120	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U121	Dear colleagues! I would like to call you, however, on the economic courts to postpone the question as a minimum, and... I will explain to you the reason. At the moment, this idea is moving forward with a very catastrophic problem, which is in this law from a legal point of view, and I will explain it. So that's the idea. You come with a flag, you say: “We need an economic court! We have the idea of creating an economic court!” Okay, we're going to set up an economic court. And then the question arises: what are we going to see in that court? The main thing is that we have the truth, but we don't really know what we're going to see there. I will give you two examples, as is the case at present. There is a catastrophic problem. In other words, what has not been understood by the law -makers? So this court, the Economic Court, will look at all issues related to the responsibility of the participants in the construction process. Who is involved in the construction process? That means absolutely all the construction processes. All right! If someone, I'm sorry, raises a grandson, it's also a part of the construction process, and his neighbor can also refer this to court... the responsibility of the participant in the construction process. So with this regulation, you foresee that absolutely everyone - not just one or two, but absolutely all! - construction processes will be seen in the Economic Court, although the aim is quite different - that it is a very narrow range of cases. The other problem is. Competition law. In fact, competition law also means that everyone is responsible for all matters.... that any citizen who has brought any form of infringement of competition... that it must also be seen in the Economic Court... The Legal Commission is asked precise questions about these problems, there are no answers. It is understood that these questions are very precise and there are no answers to them. There are no legislative drivers who have considered such problems at all. What does that mean? That means that it's a court, the Court of Economic Affairs, with 10 judges, will just hang out. All proceedings will stop because 10 judges are unable to deal with all construction cases in the whole territory of Latvia operationally, quickly and so on. So I come back to what I said at the very beginning. The problem with the Economic Court is that there is a flag “We need such a court!” because it's a popular question, but what we're going to look at is we don't really know. We want to look at something, we don't want to look at something, but we don't know how it will be. ‘ Now it will be time.” It must not make any reforms in the rule of law! Another detail I have to say. When the Republic of Latvia restored its independence, representative of the Ministry of Justice, at that time – Jānis Bordāns (a person with such a name and surname!) , signed the document which abolished the Economic Court, which is in principle a copy of the Economic Court. And at that time Jānis Bordāns said that in a modern country, in a modern European country, such an institution is not necessary and that such issues should be considered in general civil order. I understand that you want to move it forward, but there are two major legal problems that are contained in this draft law and that have not been resolved. And in the Commission too, the so-called experts who are driving it have no idea how to solve them. Please be reasonable. At least set aside this question for a while, remove it from the agenda and solve this problem! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U122	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U123	Dear colleagues, The proposal supported by the Commission by Jānis Bordāns defines the location of this court (i.e. it will be located in Riga) and that it will be the court of first instance and that the jurisdiction of the court will cover the entire territory of the Republic of Latvia. On the other hand, what matters will fall within the competence of the above-mentioned court is dealt with in two future draft laws of the Saeima on the agenda of today's sitting, namely, Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law and Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, which will be discussed today at first reading. And accordingly, the proposals will be expected from Members and evaluated by the Legal Commission. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U124	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U125	2. - the proposal by Member Lubova Svekov. It is encouraged to exclude all articles of the draft law. This therefore means not creating an Economic Court. This proposal is not supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U126	Members want to vote and also to debate. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U127	Dear Coalition! I accept that I could be one of all Members who has been the most in court proceedings. I've been more than... stable - in more than a thousand processes. What I can tell you: what you are doing right now is absolutely stupid... direction of the modern process. The first instance, as if a specialised court (if the same regional court remains and the same non-specialised Senate), does not address the issue in substance. This is just a formal question that you have put on the agenda at the moment. First. Secondly. Such a court, with some judges who will see so-called cream cases, is a process that fully promotes corruption. Latvia's legal environment is very small, and corporate links are much easier to establish if the same representatives regularly go to the same court. So a much better solution... Because the problem... The main problem for the participants in proceedings is the speed of the proceedings. The speed of the process shall be controlled by other procedural means. How can this be done? Their examples are very many: from the shortening of the time limits for appeal, from how evidence is presented, how they are assessed, how much representatives may or may not be present when they are ill, not present at meetings, and from many other procedural instruments, how to improve the process so that it can be swift, including large-scale commercial disputes. The creation of an economic court does not solve any of these problems. It is by nature a return in Soviet times, when there was also corruption in the courts. This is not only a poor quality, unthinking question that has not been fully understood, it is a revolutionary belief that you are now moving forward. This is not a matter that is legally correct. I would like to emphasise in particular: representatives of the legal professions, experts in this area have opposed this, not because it will improve the process, but because they are speaking exactly the same arguments I am saying today. Well, maybe, however, listen to the opinion of industry experts when it comes to the fact that the creation of economic courts is not the instrument that will solve the problems that you have placed on the agenda as the main ones. Please, really think! I understand you want to move forward. Well, stop right now, well, discuss all those issues! You're going to get, I'm telling you! - starting position. In the first years you will be faced with a situation where the main problem that will be in the economic courts will be the disputes about the jurisdiction that the parties to the proceedings will dispute, who will... who may and may not go to the Economic Court. This will be the case for legal proceedings. It will draw the length of the processes. Therefore, no matter how much you do not like the opposition Member Gobzem, listen to what I say to you from the experience of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U128	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U129	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U131	3. - the proposal made by the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan, which is related to the proposal supported by the proposal, of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U133	And 4, lastly, the proposal by the Minister of Justice, John Bordan, of a technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U134	Members (Interface: 'vote!') )... wishes to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 71, against - 5, abstaining. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U135	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U136	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 57, against - 23, refrains - not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U137	The Legal Commission calls for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set at 2 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U138	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U139	Dear colleagues, This is the related draft law. As I have already mentioned, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” provides for the creation of an Economic Court of Cases, but its jurisdiction will be established in procedural laws, and these are amendments to the Civil Procedure Law. The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” and has decided to support it and to direct it for consideration at the first reading of the Saeima sitting. This draft law is related, as I mentioned, to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” and the establishment of the Economic Court. The regulation provided for in this draft law defines the categories of cases the examination of which is within the competence of the Court of Economic Cases, as well as the regulation of the transitional period. The law is expected to enter into force on 1 January 2021. The draft law defines certain requirements, such as requirements for infringements of competition law, requirements for decisions of a meeting of members (shareholders) of a capital company and others. When determining the scope of competence of a specialised court, its competence is originally defined in areas requiring an immediate solution. In particular, a thoughtful, cautious and gradual approach is envisaged with regard to determining court competence and building the load of load in order to avoid congestion of cases during the first years of operation. The risk that during the first months of operation of the court would receive an inadequate amount of cases would significantly affect or even render impossible the work of the court. In view of this, a limited number of cases should initially be transferred to the newly created court, with the possibility of extending it in the future with appropriate solutions for the capacity of the court. Also, in order to avoid congestion of cases during the first years of activity, it is planned that the court, which received applications by 31 December 2020, whose examination is in essence subject to the Economic Court, shall complete the procedure of civil cases initiated. Those rules also apply to cases pending before the Court of Appeal. And with regard to jurisdiction disputes, the draft law states that the Economic Court is the one assessing whether the case is subject to it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U140	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U141	Your main argument why you are driving it is that you need to be... in the jurisdiction of the judgment... rapid judgments in civil proceedings. Then I'll explain to you. In the family year - almost a year! - the Civil Procedure Act at second reading has been opened, proposals have been submitted that solve the problems that you are concerned about. Number one. So the question is, why do you not make those amendments to the Civil Procedure Law that simply lie in the drawer? These amendments would solve the problem that exists in Latvia. Number two. As far as the civil procedure is concerned... The main theme is that judges of economic affairs - they will be some great smarter than all other judges. But this is objectively impossible. It is impossible for us to have the 10 most intelligent judges and others to be a little more silly. That argument is therefore demagogic and does not work. That is why, once again, I call for the legislative proposal on "Amendments to the Civil Procedure Act", which the Saeima has... there, for example, are amendments that have been tabled, which are not going forward - that legal persons may never appear before the trial, in any case. Such an amendment has been tabled. That should be adopted. An amendment has been tabled which requires the court to... each court has an obligation to give judgment within a certain procedural period and within a certain period, while at the same time giving the court the freedom to determine, within that period, how many hearings are sitting and in such a way. This would speed up the process. There are amendments which propose to shorten time limits for appeal; which shorten time limits for submission of evidence; which shorten time limits for third parties to apply. Such amendments are and would, procedurally, very much help in shortening the processes. I would like to give an example: the Zolitude civil affairs. The length of the Zolitūde civil cases depended on third parties being summoned during the court proceedings (it was, of course, used by lawyers representing the defendant’s party). So a hearing is scheduled after one and a half years. We go to the hearing and the defendant’s lawyers apply for third parties to be summoned at the hearing. Amendments to the drawer in the Saeima provide that the question of inviting third parties is to be decided by the judge in the office without calling the hearing before the first hearing. This can be done objectively. We should adopt such amendments instead of creating an Economic Court, where 10 judges are imposed on them, in fact, following the regulation of the existing civil procedure, which you are moving forward, to deal with absolutely all construction matters. And there is no counter argument, you can see - no one is on the table and does not say that it is not currently regulated by the draft law. If you look before yourself at the draft law on the table, as it is currently being directed, it is proposed in the civil procedure that the category of cases of consent is the responsibility of the participants in the construction process. But who is involved in the construction process? The participant in the construction process is the owner, builder, engineer, construction supervisor and in such a spirit. All persons involved in the construction process, including state officials, are all members of the construction process. So for any construction process, any participant in the construction process will now be able to submit cases to the economic court, which means that the ordinary courts throughout the territory of Latvia (whether in Balvos, Kuldiga or Liepaja) will no longer consider construction cases to be only 10 judges in Riga. And that's not right! Because it will delay the proceedings, because it will make it more difficult for the parties and so on. Competition law... Read what's in the project! The project reads exactly the same thing as construction - the liability for infringements of competition law. So every one of us will go to the Economic Court in a situation where infringements of competition law are found. Where are we going to go? We will be opposed to the fact that when cases are brought before the Economic Court, the judge will take a decision that will be, for example, as follows: “This case is about, apologies, building a small house. We will not accept this case and we will not deal with it." And then there will be disputes of jurisdiction, because the parties to the case will have the opportunity to complain, because there is always a possibility to complain in civil procedure. They are not insurmountable decisions. In a legal and democratic state, all decisions can always be appealed against. And so we will end up in huge proceedings for jurisdiction. It is a problem that has not been resolved and it is not objectively possible to resolve it in the future, because it is possible to distinguish which case of construction proceedings is subject to the Economic Court... So, which house to travel, the case will be subject to the Economic Court, and which house to travel, the case will not be subject to the Economic Court... So if we build Maxim's store, it's going to be subject to it, but if we build Rimi's store, it's not subject to it. Because the difference, for example, will be that one will pay there, I don't know, two million, and the other one million. It is important to emphasise one more thing. It is very important to say that in civil law, the importance of a case in the formation of a case-law does not depend on the amount of the claim. The importance of the case depends on the form of order sought and may also be of an intangible nature. Much more important... In certain situations, there are also cases of an intrusive nature in which the court finds a legal fact about the construction process, for example. And this is not the case here. But how would you say that if... If there is no point in the Legal Commission? We will once again come to a situation in which the public will say that the Saeima produces poor quality laws. I therefore call on you to look at and encourage the Head of the Legal Commission to move forward with the amendments to the Civil Procedure Law, which lie in the drawer, but to postpone, reflect and consult industry professionals in order to be... that those problems that exist (they are not small technical problems, they are vitally important problems!) , would be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U142	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U143	The legal commission has supported it conceptually when examining this draft law at first reading. This means, of course, that the Legal Commission looks forward to the proposals for second and third reading. The Legal Commission has also listened to the question of both the Ministry of Justice and the Court Administration, as well as the Judicial Training Centres, about how resources will be planned, which will be directed to the specialisation of judges of this court and to increase professional know-how. That is what has been shown to us at the meetings of the Commission precisely on the part of sectoral policy. I therefore call on the Legal Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U144	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U145	In view of the importance of this draft law, we call for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals, which is sufficiently long, namely on 20 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U146	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U147	The Legal Commission has also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” and has decided to support it and direct it for consideration at the first reading of the Saeima sitting. This draft law is related to the draft laws already examined above “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” and “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” and, of course, also related to the creation of the economic court itself. The draft law provides for competence of the Economic Court in criminal proceedings, when examining criminal cases, as well as provides for regulation of the transitional period in relation to issues of jurisdiction of the cases. The draft law provides that the competence of the Economic Court of Justice will cover cases concerning money laundering and financing of terrorism and proliferation, as well as corruption offences. In addition, the Ministry of Justice informed us in the Commission that there were requests to include tax, fraud and other cases in the discussions of experts, but, taking into account the risk of load, currently the competence of the court has been established with caution, providing that other cases, which are fixed in the annex to the draft law, could be expanded in the future. Like the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”... In the case of criminal cases also, the court which before the date of entry into force of this Law will have received applications, the examination of which is in essence subject to the Economic Court... The criminal cases are foreseen to be heard in the court where they were opened. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U148	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U149	These amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law also prove that the draft law is not well prepared, and I would set examples. So this is about the Economic Court. What is the main task of the Economic Court? There is a question of dealing with cases of an economic nature. What's a concern for businessmen? They're worried about a quick civil process. They shall not be concerned by such criminal proceedings. First. Secondly. The Commission and the drivers of the relevant draft law have not come up with the categories of cases to be covered. The proposed solution does not include, for example, tax cases. The biggest economic loss in Latvia since committing crimes with an economic nature is tax cases. And tax matters are not intended at all! On the other hand, if they were intended, then the question is whether they are all tax matters or whether we are doing something mystical again... breakdown of which tax cases... yes or no. But it's absurd in itself... If we are talking about the Economic Court, then tax matters, which have the most direct connection with economic issues, which have to do with the discharge of the state budget and everything else, are not, at all, covered by a specific draft law. I'm asking you again... We will not build a rich Latvia with it if we revolutionize poor quality draft laws. If it were qualitatively prepared, if we had discussed and solved these problems, then my opinion would probably change and so... I am not speaking now as from the opposition, I am speaking as a person who has experienced, as it is - to judge, as it is - the different categories of cases in the court. And I call on you to listen to these arguments. These are essential arguments that make it incomprehensible and, as I said, very sensitive to the risks of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U150	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U151	The Commission has conceptually supported the first reading of the draft legislation. Please also support the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U152	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U153	The Commission is also asking for a sufficiently long deadline for the submission of proposals, i.e. 20 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U154	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 March this year. Dear colleagues, Proposals for amendments to the agenda have been received. Members Pavļuts, Bondars, Stein, Dūrītis and Rukšāne-Ščipčinska are asking to exclude from the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members wish to vote. Please call... So, then, the Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Dep. And Gobzem said, There was a bell! "It was a call, I heard!" ; dep. J. Strike's intermediate names.) ... Please call me! ( Internouncing call.) We will vote in favour of excluding from the agenda of the sitting the draft law on "Amendments to the Waste Management Act"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U155	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission of the Saeima examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” and prepared it for second reading. A total of 13 proposals were received. ( Internouncing call.) The proposal is received from Minister of Finance Janis Reira. Supported by the Commission. This provides for options, i.e. possibilities for a natural person to choose the means of communication with the State Revenue Service. That is, it is about applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U157	The proposal is also received from Minister of Finance Janis Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U159	3. the proposal has been received from Mr Pimenova. The Commission is not supported, as already at the moment the electronic declaration system technically provides that it is not possible to submit a false declaration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U160	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U161	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! My proposal concerns the Article of the Law on the Rights of Taxpayers and its task is to extend the right of taxpayers to "to receive from the tax administration, through the electronic declaration system of the State Revenue Service, notifications of deficiencies and errors found in the tax returns and other accounts submitted, as well as to receive notification of possible penalties before a decision on penalties is taken". The purpose of the proposal is to ensure by law the principle of “Advising First” in relations with taxpayers between tax administrations and the State Revenue Service. It should be said that the State Revenue Service confirms that, in accordance with the procedure established by its internal rules, the Service already implements this principle, and therefore its inclusion in the Law is unnecessary. The rapporteur has also just said this. However, in my view, by broadening the rights of taxpayers, the law would give the public a signal that the tax administration is also a consultative institution, not a supervisory and gardening institution alone, would create a favourable attitude in society towards the functioning of state fiscal institutions, make the State Revenue Service's good practice to be implemented irreversibly and contribute to the prevention of prejudices. Meanwhile, the idea has spread among entrepreneurs that the State Revenue Service is most possessed with the intention to receive, as far as possible, money to the state budget at the expense of the infringers of the law, adding to them penalties, and it is interested to artificially create such offenders. I note that my proposal lays down the rights of taxpayers, not the duty of the tax administration, which could really give rise to a judicial application if the surcharge is made without notice. The proposal does not have legal consequences, but it does not give rise to a requirement that may be set off against... dealt with within the framework of an extrajudicial relationship. The law strengthens the right of taxpayers to be informed before a decision of the tax administration is taken or before a control measure of the tax administration is taken, is a proportionate solution. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U162	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what can be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U163	On behalf of the Commission, I would remind you that the proposal has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U165	Proposal No 4 - the proposal of the Minister of Finance, Mr Reira. The numbering of the following articles has been supported. Regulates the conditions of liability of the common construction work accounting system... maintenance obligations.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U167	5. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. Partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U169	6. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Expands the number of users in the electronic working time accounting system, including the State Border Guard. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U171	7. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. The Commission has partially supported and included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U172	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U173	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U175	9. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. The Commission has partially supported and included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U176	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U177	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Technical specification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U179	11. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. The Commission has partially supported and included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U181	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Gives the State Border Guard an opportunity to follow compliance with the laws and regulations on immigration. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U183	13. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U185	In the Commission as a whole, the draft law was supported. I also ask Members to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U186	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U187	The deadline for submitting proposals is 19 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U188	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 19 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U189	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”. The Commission has received 15 proposals for three meetings. I very much hope that we will manage these proposals more quickly today. So it's 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Related to the approximation of the norms included in the Law on the Protection of Children’s Rights and the obligation for the Cabinet of Ministers to establish “a methodology for evaluating the special needs of learners for pre-school educational institutions”. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U191	Proposal No 2 is a proposal from the Members' Group - Golubeva, Lībiņa-Egnere, Voika, Orlova and Dzintara - which is partly supported and included in the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science and which determines the competence of the Ministry of Education and Science to develop a methodology for assessing "special needs and learning difficulties for pre-school institutions". The difference between the Commission’s proposal supported is that it does not individually highlight learning difficulties, because, according to the Legal Bureau, the words ‘special needs’ also mean... we understand that it is also about learning difficulties. Therefore, proposal 2 has been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U192	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U193	Hello, colleagues! I would just like to give a broader context. As you probably remember, we supported, at first reading, amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, which provide that in future the child has the right to examine possible developmental disorders at an early age and also at the start of compulsory pre-school education; pre-school would provide an assessment of whether the child has any special needs and does not need special support. How does this happen at the moment? At present, special or special needs are usually identified later in our education system, and most of us list only cases where there has been a commission in our system. It does not allow us, in principle, at a much earlier age... more effectively helping the child to receive additional support that could help him to reach the end, fully, of his/her potential in education. It is clear that the right to good education is for all, including children and people with special needs, and this simple test, which will then be developed by the Ministry of Education and Science, will help pre-school educators to identify relatively simply, understand whether one of the children entering compulsory education needs special support in terms of, for example, dyslexia, hyperactivity, autistic spectrum disturbances and so on. So this is about the fact that this methodology must be modern, good, science-based. And we can inspire from the examples of many other countries where such a methodology already exists. And this is a task for the Ministry of Education and Science - to develop and use it in Latvia from 2021, as you will see from future proposals in this draft law. I invite you to support 3. - the Commission's proposal, which, by its very nature, reflects this proposal - proposal 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U194	I closed the debate. And the Member calls for support for the Commission's proposal 3, without asking for a vote on the proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U195	Yes, proposal 2 has been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U196	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U197	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U199	4. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U200	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, An application has been received for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Members of the Saeima, Zakaistov, Adamovich, Strike, Bondars and Dzintars are asked to announce a break at the Saeima sitting on February 20 from 2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Yes, yes!” Medicines cause noise.) Please call me! Let us vote for a break to be announced (Interface: “Let it work!” ; “Learn to Work!” ) from 2.50 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Please vote mode! Please get the result! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You haven’t done anything again?” ) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. So in the Saeima sitting, the break from 2.50 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Please call me! Please register the Members! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “There are two more minutes!” ; intermediates: “No!” , “No, no!” ) Time for notifications. The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U201	I informed you that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is scheduled to meet today at three o'clock.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U202	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U203	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Jānis Adamsons, Dagmars Beitnere-Le Galla, Anda Čakša, Inese Ikstena, Ritvars Jansons, Romanas Naudiņš, Vita Anda Steela, Ivars Zariņš and Reinis Znotiņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U204	Thank you. So it's a break until 3:30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U205	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U206	Okay. Colleagues, let's keep working. 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It proposes a more focused version of the first paragraph of Article 17, without duplication of content already included in other draft legislation. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U208	5. - The proposal by Member Evija Papule. This provides for the exclusion of Article 17, paragraph 2.5, which deals with the obligation for municipalities to finance private pre-school institutions with social welfare status. As you remember, it was agreed in the times of budget negotiations and compromises that this provision could enter into force on 1 January 2020. In turn, Mrs Papule's proposal provides for this provision to be ruled out at all. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U209	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by Member Papule! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 25, 40, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U210	6. - Member Kucina's proposal, which obliges the municipality to identify, at least once a year, the views of parents of children on the demand for pre-school education programmes and to establish criteria for the adequacy of demand, and to ensure that these programmes are implemented accordingly. We have already discussed the new application of such functions to municipalities at the last sitting when we were talking about the General Education Law. And this norm is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U211	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U212	Hello, colleagues! Most of us are parents. And each of us is good for our children. We care for them and want them to grow up and be happy people. When young children listen to their wishes, we choose interest education groups for them, assessing their interests. For a school where the child will start learning, we offer our advice on career choice and career development. I am convinced that his parents have the right to decide what kind of preprimary school is to be visited by the child and in what language he will learn first. When analysing statistics, it is clear that today there is a demand for kindergartens, where teaching takes place only in Latvian, as well as for pre-school educational institutions, where teaching takes place in minority languages. Statistics also show that demand for preprimary education groups, where curricula are implemented in the state language, increases annually. Many municipalities respond to parents’ demand, and minority preprimary education institutions form groups that implement educational programmes in the state language. For example, in Daugavpils 2017/2018. 26 such groups were active during the school year, 2018/2019. in school year - already 32 groups, 2019/2020. In 2002 - already 43 groups. And data from Daugavpils City Education Authority show that in September this year there will be a need to open more new groups. It is not a secret that often, taking care that the child learns the state language more quickly, families who speak Russian every day choose to send children to the Latvian kindergarten. Unfortunately, these experiments do not always end in a positive way, as many times parents have experienced the fact that their happy little child gets into a kindergarten, gets involved, dives and stops talking at all. And what's amazing? What do we expect from a two - year - old child who has only recently begun to learn his or her mother’s language? Colleagues, therefore, I believe that the keywords here are, however, “the views of parents” and “the sense of the real situation”. And it is parents who must be given the right to assess themselves when a child is ready to learn another language. Given that the provision of the most important social services, including the provision of education, is within the competence of the municipality in the relevant administrative territory, I suggest that the draft law be supplemented and that local authorities should be aware of the views of children's parents on the demand for pre-school education programmes, it is necessary to establish criteria for the adequacy of the requests and ensure the implementation of these programmes accordingly. I call for responsibility for the future of our children and for my proposals to be supported. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U213	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U214	Dear colleagues, welcome again! Member Kucina's proposal complements existing legislation in the field of education with regulation ensuring the interests of persons belonging to Latvian minorities who require implementation of pre-school education programmes in minority language. It is clear that the future legislation in the coalition structures the pre-school education system as a two-flowy kindergarten that can start to exist after a transitional period. The activities in such kindergartens could continue already in two-flow general education institutions, which would create an environment for the interaction of learners, overcome each other's prejudices and unify society. However, in order for the two-flow system to be established and operate in accordance with the principles of a democratic state and for the state to fulfil its international obligations, in addition to the rules just adopted, it is necessary to establish the procedure for financing pre-school education programmes in Latvian minority languages. The second paragraph of Article 14 of the General Convention on the Protection of Minorities, ratified by Latvia in 2005, already lays down a policy on respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities in the field of education. I will repeat and say the same arguments that I have already stated when the proposals for the draft law on the amendment to the General Education Law were discussed. The article I mentioned in the convention states that, within the framework of education systems, a State ‘shall undertake, if there is sufficient demand, to ensure, as far as possible, that persons belonging to national minorities have the right opportunity to acquire the language of a minority or to acquire education in that language in a territory which is historically or in large numbers of persons living in national minorities’. It is precisely on the basis of sufficient demand that Mr Kucin's proposal is also based. Mr Kucina's proposal is also in place because early identification of demand undermines existing prejudices, but its lack creates new ones. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, it was repeatedly mentioned during the examination of the draft law that more than seven thousand children are waiting for their places in kindergartens (or, more precisely, 7536), and the impression that these seven and a half thousand children are children from Latvian families could arise. Last week, during the examination of the draft law on General Education, this figure was named twice. Commission President Asheraden said: “In fact, the first major problem that causes such a sharp reaction... among most of the debateers is that seven and a half thousand children in Latvia currently lack places in municipal kindergartens.” Well said Mr Asheraden, this is the number of all the children waiting in the queue. But it is quite wrong that a sharp reaction is caused by a row of seven and a half thousand children. This reaction was wrongly caused by the impression that all these thousands were Latvians. But Mr. Asheraden confirmed this indirectly as well... On the other hand, when he spoke in the debate, he extended this figure to Riga (Dep. A. Muižniece: "You can talk about the proposal?" ), saying that “up to seven thousand children in Riga are not in municipal kindergartens”. This consideration is, of course, not correct and misleading. But in fact... How many places in Latvian groups and how many Russian groups are waiting for parents for their children? Such statistics were not collected for VARAM and, in order for such statistics to be available, it is necessary to impose an obligation on the municipality to collect such information. Perhaps a rough estimate has been made of how much this area is required by kindergarten municipalities. At the end of July last year it is clear from the MoEPRD report that four fifths of all children provided with places in kindergartens received the program in the state language at the municipal pre-school institutions on 1 September 2018. According to VARAM, there are 1135 children not provided places in the municipal preprimary education institutions in Riga. This means that about seven or eight hundred children living in Riga cannot get places in kindergartens where programmes are implemented in the state language, rather than seven and a half thousand. This example shows that programmes in the national language, not seven and a half thousand. This example shows that the lack of information poses serious problems in putting the entire system in order. I repeat: Member Kucin's proposal complements regulation and eliminates the lack of education legislation. I call for this to be supported. ( The ring of noise.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U215	Dear colleagues, Members Latkovskis, Zakaistovs, Strike, Dzintars and Bondars ask for a break by 16:45. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Let’s stop!” ) Please call us! Let us vote for a break before 16:45! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 33, for - 1. Consequently, the decision was taken. A break is announced until 4:45 p.m. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to Member Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U216	Respected Budget and Finance (tax) Commissions (Interface: ‘Heads!’ Thank you. Thank you very much. ... Membership and honourable members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission! Let's go and finish the job so that we can just cope with excise duty and peace at home! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U217	The rest of the day until 4:45 p.m. The results of the registration. Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U218	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Jānis Adamsons, Iveta Benhen-Bekena, Dace Bluķe, Anda Čakša, Gatis Eglitis, Inese Ikstena, Juris Jušaks (intermediate call.) Artus... The Egly is... Inese Ikstena, Juris Jušaks, Artuss Neighbours (Interface: “Ir!” )... Yes, Alexander Kirštein, Armands Krauze (interface: “Yes, yes!” )... The cargo is, Atis Lejiņš, Roman Naudiņš, Edwin Schnore (Dep. A. Leiiņš: “I am!” ; intermediate: “The way is!” )... Lejiņš is, Edwin Schnore, Mārtiņš Stein (Interface: “I am!” )... Yes, Vita Anda Steel, Jānis Tutins (Interface: “I am here!” )... Ivars Zariņš, Evita Zālīte–Gross and Reinis Znotiņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U219	Interruption until 4:45 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U220	Honourable Members! Let's keep working after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U221	6. - Mr. Cucin's proposal. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U222	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Mr Kucin! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 18, no, 47, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U223	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. More technical proposal. It is envisaged to exclude an article of a draft law, the content of which is already included elsewhere in the draft law. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U225	8 / 8 - Member Pimenova's proposal. Defines the obligation for the municipality to provide pre-school education in minority language if there is an appropriate demand. This was already the subject of discussions in the context of the draft law on General Education and Members decided not to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U226	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U227	I will repeat it in part. And that's natural, because in reality all the proposals submitted in connection with the reform of the new pre-school education system either received unanimous support from members of the coalition, or really show concrete proposals how to balance the interests of all Latvian citizens regardless of the ethnic groups they belong to. I would like to repeat that we really understand exactly where we live. It has developed to a large extent as a result of self-determination by the Latvian ethnic group with the aim of ensuring the preservation and development of the culture and language of those belonging to the fundamental nationalities, so children must have the right to education in pre-school education programmes in the state language. However, it is not permissible for these rights to be exercised at the expense of the rights of others. A person who, like Latvians, cares about the specific nature of his culture and seeks to preserve and develop it by teaching his or her children in family language in public educational institutions and financing them for his or her taxes. However, in order for the education system to operate in accordance with the principles of a democratic state and for the state to fulfil its international commitments, it is necessary to establish, in addition to the rules just adopted, the procedure for financing pre-school education programmes in Latvian minority languages. And the basic rule here is sufficient demand. It's this precondition... This pre-condition is determined by the state when deciding which languages are taught by national minorities and what language is taught by its children, including in the pre-school education system. I propose that the new wording of Section 17, third paragraph, point 3, of the draft law be supplemented by the following words: ‘or, if there is sufficient demand, in the language of the minority’. And the criteria of adequacy of the demand are set by the Cabinet of Ministers. This means that both Latvian and minority languages... opportunities are provided - on the additional condition that education in minority languages is provided with these guarantees if there is sufficient demand, the criterion of which is set by the government. This would create a system of balanced interests for all citizens. I believe that this approach is both democratic and fair. And I therefore call on the Saeima to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U228	I closed the debate. The proposal, however, cannot be put to the vote because it was supported by 7 but was possible to debate it. Is there anything to comment on from the point of view of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U229	No, there's nothing to comment on.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U230	The proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U231	That's... 9. - Member Kucin's proposal. Not supported. In terms of content, this is similar to Mr Pimenova's proposal. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U232	This proposal is therefore to be put to the vote. Members want to vote if? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mr Kucin! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U233	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Members Golubeva, Lībiņa-Egnere, Voika, Orlova and Dzintara, which requires the municipality to assess the special needs of children. The proposal has been partly supported and included 11. - in the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, the difference is that this obligation is entrusted not to the municipality but to the head of the educational establishment. The 10th proposal is therefore partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U235	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U237	12. - the proposal of Member Papule, which provides for the state to participate in the financing of the salaries of teachers of pre-school institutions currently financed by the municipality. The proposal has a significant fiscal impact and, in the view of the majority of committee members, it cannot be seen outside the budgetary context. The majority of the commission therefore calls for no support. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U238	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal tabled by Member Papule! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 52, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U239	Further proposals relate to the transitional provisions and the date of entry into force of the rules. 13. - a proposal from Members Golubeva, Lībiņa-Egnere, Voika, Orlov and Dzintara. Supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U240	13. - partially supported, included in 15. - the Commission's proposal. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U241	Yeah. 14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Papule. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U242	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U243	And 15. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U245	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U246	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U247	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February, as is the case with the General Education Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U248	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February this year. Draft law on the first reading of the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U249	Hello, fellow Members, again! We are now looking at the draft law on the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part. This draft law was designed to approve an investment protection agreement between these parties in accordance with the law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”. Given the rapidly growing market potential of South Asia, it is in the interest of the European Union to conclude and sign an investment protection agreement with the countries of the region, including the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The negotiation process with all seven countries of the South Asian region, or the so-called ASEAN, proved to be ineffective at the same time and with little progress, so already in 2009 the Council of the European Union agreed to open negotiations with ASEAN countries bilaterally in order to make progress at least with those countries with which the objectives and views coincided. The agreement with Vietnam will be the second bilateral investment protection agreement of the European Union to be concluded with one of the Member States of the region. The first was with Singapore already in 2018. It will also be the second investment protection agreement concluded by the European Union with an Asian partner at all. The conclusion of the agreement is also a step towards the conclusion of an inter-regional trade and investment agreement between the European Union and ASEAN. The investment protection agreement between the European Union and Vietnam will ensure a high level of protection of investments while protecting the right of the European Union and Vietnam to regulate and achieve legitimate public policy objectives such as public health, safety and the environment. A very important aspect of this agreement is that it replaces and therefore also improves the current 21 bilateral investment treaties. The agreement also provides for fair and equal treatment for European Union investors and their investments in Vietnam and does not discriminate against Vietnam's investments in similar circumstances. This Agreement establishes a permanent international and fully independent dispute resolution system, consisting of a permanent first instance court and an appeal court, where dispute resolution procedures will take place in a transparent and impartial manner. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, colleagues call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U250	Please call me! Let us vote on the first reading draft law on the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U251	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U252	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 March this year. Draft Act “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U253	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission looked at the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” for the second reading. I would remind you that prior to the first reading, a short deadline for the submission of proposals was given in due time for the committee meeting. It should also be said that 11 proposals were received to the second reading to the panel. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. The Commission meeting was not supported (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Why?” ), as no financial impact on the future budget has been presented (Interdependence.) , as well as the version submitted is exactly the same as that already existing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Izalnieks: “It’s not an argument!” ) Consequently not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U254	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U255	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I call for this proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Gerhard, to be supported. First of all, we must say that the chaos that you have now introduced into tax policy is not finally acceptable. But since this draft law, prepared by the authors, actually aims to reduce the rates of excise duty on strong alcohol or, more precisely, to slow down its growth, it would also be wise to have less strong alcohol or beer in this case, which is based on Latvian producers as well. the product produced, reduce the growth rate. Why is that? Whenever the rate of excise duty on one of the alcohols is raised, its most heated discussion has been about the relationship between the rates... between strong and less strong alcohol to ensure fairer competition. And I have to say that during the implementation of tax policy in 2018, 2017 the most heated discussions here, in the Saeima and in commissions were not about corporate income tax rates, were not about labour tax rates, but were about excise tax rates. And what you did last year with the abolition of the increase in excise duty on strong alcohol - you have already broken down this balance by giving beer producers a promise, if I understand it correctly: if there are no future rates of excise duty on strong alcohol, the rates of excise duty on beer producers will not be affected either. And that promise on your part should be fulfilled. For our part, it seems reasonable to maintain this proportion - if excise duty is raised to strong alcohol, then also to raise beer; if strong alcohol does not raise excise duty, then not to raise beer. So I am calling for support to be given to this and to the other proposals made by the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Gerhard. This argument was not used at the Commission meeting... Mrs Iveta has just reported here from the troupe that there seems to be no assessment by the Ministry of Finance of the fiscal impact that this proposal might have on. On the contrary, also with regard to all the other proposals, we asked the Ministry of Finance to give its assessment of the fiscal impact. And, I must say, its estimates were very different for Mr Schuncin and Mr Zakatistov, as if they were working at different homes. My recommendation: just talk more often so that you can tell at least the Saeima how much effect it will have on the national budget on one or the other, or sometimes on the ministerial proposal itself. The first time we met at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the Commission supported this proposal. On the second occasion, at that chaotic, repeat sitting of the Commission, all Members were absent, so I think the following vote is also to a large extent: the Commission did not support the proposal. So that I call on Members of the Saeima, however, to think with their head and make a wise decision in support of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U256	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U257	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I fully agree with Dana Reizniece-Ozola that there should be no chaos in budgetary and financial matters and tax matters. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission rejected all 11 proposals, including 1. And not because people had not come together, there were not members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, but for one reason - not to be this chaos. Thank you to the members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Thank you for your responsibility. I hope that our colleagues in the Saeima will be as effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U258	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add to proposal 1? So it's not. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 28, against - 44, abstaining - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U259	Proposal 2 has been received from the Member John Dombrava and provides for it (Dep. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) ... First of all... The Commission has rejected and has not supported. ( Internouncing call.) It's not an argument... Financials (Interim) ... Finances (Interims.) ... So... i.e.... ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U260	Colleagues, let the rapporteur report on the proposal! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “He is not reporting!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U261	Yeah... Thus, the financial impact on the budget has not been calculated here either. Given that (Interims.) is provided for this... The proposal is rejected... ( The drug is noise. Impressions. Depp. A. Gobzem: “What should be done now?” Impressions: “We’re going to miss!” Thank you very much. The proposal is rejected. I repeat... i.e. there are no financial calculations. The draft law was also viewed. — Dep. A. Gobzem: “A if it were?” )... The draft law was reviewed on Tuesday and it was possible to draw up legally correct proposals based on financial calculations.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U262	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U263	So I'll make it clear. For this proposal, which is proposal 2, it is proposed to maintain the basic rate currently in the law - 2025 - but it would only enter into force on 1 March 2023. The impact on the budget is quite difficult to calculate, but of course it is possible to do so. But... In particular, within 15 minutes, it will be sufficiently difficult to calculate the budgetary impact after three and a half years. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U264	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U265	We will not support this proposal, Mr Dombrava, precisely because even the Ministry of Finance is unable to answer how much it will cost you. From one million to 90 million - there was the effect that was estimated by the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kola and J. Izalnieks's intersages.) However, I would call on the National Union itself to support Mr Dombrava's proposal, because then you would show that you at least support your Members. The Minister - you have just shown - has no trust. ( The box “Yes! ”) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U266	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add to proposal 2? No, no. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the motion tabled by the Member, Dombrava. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 3, for - 76, for - 5. The proposal is not supported. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ; dep. Gobzem, A. Gobzem, A., A., A., A. ; dep. V. Agešins: “Very bad!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U267	So there's a noise in the hall. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Proposal No 3 has been received from the Members' Group - Dūritis, Stein (Dep. A. Gobzem: “What happens there now?” )... Blue, Voika and Skride. Basically, there are exactly the same arguments that the previous one only change the amount that has been increased from a thousand... Nine... from... ( Interface: “What is the financial impact? ” ) Because... the financial impact cannot be established and therefore cannot be supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “How is it not certain?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U268	Let us start a debate. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U269	Dear colleagues, I just want to tell you very briefly about the substance of the proposal. This was a question of financial impact. Well, obviously, if we decide on this matter as a matter of urgency, then, of course, the Ministry of Finance cannot (Dep. A. Gobzem: “How can't you?” ; dep. E. Papule: “How can’t you?” ) to react so quickly and calculate how many million... But let us be logical: the increase in tax rates will, of course, also increase tax revenues. ( The drug is noise. Thank you very much. Yes! That's it, yeah! Of course. For the alcohol, as you said, was bought and bought. And, of course, he will buy and pay more. In particular, our proposal provides for a return to the early 2019 rate, which we reduced in August 2019 (and is EUR 1840 per 100 litres of absolute alcohol), and for this rate to be increased by a further 5 per cent from 1 March 2021 to EUR 1932 per 100 litres of absolute alcohol. Whether this proposal is supported or not supported, I believe that, if we want to or do not want to, we will definitely have to go back to excise duty... The Law on Excise Tax will have to be discussed and the future increase in the rate of excise duty on alcohol will have to be seen. So that I call for our proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U270	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U271	Dear colleagues, Well, first of all, we no longer have a clear explanation of what is logical with regard to the Ministry of Finance, which is not logical. Because sometimes, in fact, even often, the Ministry of Finance claims that, by reducing a tax, revenue decreases... or that revenue increases. In this particular case, the Ministry of Finance claims that no... that, by reducing excise duty, the revenue will be higher. But most importantly, my colleagues, I think today comes up with such a wonderful, very good, I think... a new tradition (and I invite you to stick to this tradition!) that, in the absence of financial calculations, it is not supported. Why not? Well, then you need to finish the calculations for each proposal. I call for this to really be the case in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U272	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the motion tabled by Members Dūris, Stein, Bluke, Voika and Skride! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 71, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U273	So, given that today's sitting has not supported proposals 1, 2 and 3 (Interface: "Why?") ), then... It also involves 4, 5. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Why? Why are they linked?’ )... 6. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U274	Colleagues, let's go! Proposal No 4. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Not put to the vote. ( Interface: ‘ How is it not? ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U275	Legal procedure...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U276	Proposal No 5 is also put to the vote. ( Milestones: “This is Gerhard’s proposal! ” ; “We want to vote!” ) We are on proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U277	Proposal No 6 is the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. The Commission has seen and has not been supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U278	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U279	Dear Members! I beg you very much to listen to this... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister Gerhard can't see that at all... Well, it's not visible at all. He has now tabled a proposal, he has finally tabled a proposal, and even the National Association does not support it. Well, please, let us finally support Minister Gerhard, because he has appeared for the first time on stage in the course of the year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U280	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U281	Dear colleagues, I also call on you not to break, so to say, the existing facility in the country. How can it be that the coalition Members, especially the National Union, do not support their Minister, but the SAID Members support him, even though he does not have any financial estimates? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Synthesis of amber.) Well, it's really some kind of... The threat to national security arises, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U282	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U283	It's time to go, huh? What I wanted to say was what we just understood from that flank... We understood why the National Association is not in favour of the Gerhard proposal. Apparently it's a fake Gerhard. (Laughter) Because - how can you not support your minister's proposal? Can you imagine the situation? Obviously we do not have such a minister at all. I allow the only reason we could find out today. — Dep. J. Kursīte–Pakule: “There is democracy!” - Do we even have Minister Gerharda... Isn't that a feik person? I call on the National Association to finally support its Minister. You always complain that you fail to implement your policy on all issues. For 29 years you complain that you fail to implement your policy. You have the opportunity to finally support your minister. Support Minister Gerhard, support this particular issue. Why aren't you doing this? Apparently because Minister Gerhards is a false person. Thank you. (Applause) Substitution: “Only the second plan actor!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U284	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U285	Colleagues! When implementing a project and producing SWOT or SID analysis, it is common practice to analyse what would be the case if nothing was done. And this proposal from Mr Gerhard is basically as follows: Mr Gerhard proposes not to do anything, to postpone the decision for a year (Interpretatively: "It's in his style! This is normal!” ) postponing the decision-making process for the year. I would say that it is necessary to support this proposal, because as soon as you start doing it, simply the hair will rise upright! (Laughter) In this... in this table alone, you're in 15 minutes... Three coalition partners offered three different rates. That's a finger in the air, well, what's more?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, to be correct, who will be less offering their excise duty on strong alcohol. Gerhard, I think it's very rational: "Let's go, let's talk... “ Then come to the meeting of the Saeima and make a decision. Otherwise, you will have to do the same as today: all the leaders have to look after their Members in the Commission so that they vote correctly. ( Laughs)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U286	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U287	You know, that's the feeling: excise duties have not yet been changed, but the hall is full. (Laughter) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) Most of all, I like the fact that there have been no analyses. Interesting - what was the summer (Laughter) when it was reduced by 15 percent to raise by 30 now? Well, somebody... What was the analysis today of what we spoke on the first cause tomorrow? No, well, I think I really... I do not know whether it is false or not, but let us rely on the Minister - it seems that he is still clear (Laughter) - and will support the Minister's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U288	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 49, for - 8. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “National Association - Oi... “) The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U289	7. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. The Commission has been examined and is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U290	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U291	So go on 8. - either not supported... cannot be put to the vote because it relates to proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U292	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzem: “We have come here to vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U293	Proposal 9 cannot be put to the vote because it relates to proposal 3. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U294	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U295	Proposal No 10 also relates to proposal No 3 and cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U296	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U297	Proposal No 11 relates to Proposal No 2 and cannot be put to the vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U298	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U299	As a result, all the proposals have been examined and (Interface: 'And not to vote!') ) on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U300	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “We don’t vote!” ; dep. S. Riekstins: “Aldi, you wanted to vote! What are you not voting now?” ) Please see the result. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, We have reviewed the agenda of the sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “So fast?” ) I would like to inform you of the questions put to you by Members. Members Zarins, Tutins, Agešins, Krišāns and Kucins submitted the question “On the information provided by the Ministry of Economics regarding the results of the tests carried out by the public electricity trader”, which is submitted to the Minister of Economics for reply. Members Vucanas, Krauze, Augulis, Dauge, Valainis, Jalinska and others asked Members: “Does the Prime Minister have no doubt about the reforms planned by the Minister of Education and Science, Long Suplinska?” . The name of the Member, Janis Vacāns, is for motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U301	Hello, colleagues! The ZZS Group has prepared a package of 15 questions for Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš on his assessment of the report prepared by the Ministry of Education and Science on the change of the model of internal governance of universities approved this week, including whether ISM has fulfilled the task assigned to it by the Cabinet of Ministers on 20 August last year (I quote) – “to prepare and submit a conceptual report on the university to the Cabinet of Ministers and” - I draw your attention! - "a change in the internal governance model of national scientific institutes, creating a transparent, responsible, excellence-oriented governance structure for higher education and research and in line with international practice". In the opinion of the ZZS Group, this task given by the Cabinet of Ministers has not been adequately accomplished, as ISM has arbitrarily narrowed (The Hall of Noise). The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) the subject of the report, without prejudice in substance to issues concerning the governance of national scientific institutes. However, the desire to achieve excellence in higher education without an appropriate set of measures to promote excellence, research, in our view, is, apologies, empty chattering and useless variety of resources. We therefore refer the matter to the Prime Minister, since the Cabinet had supported this conceptual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U302	The question shall be referred to the Prime Minister. Members Agešins, Urbanovičs, Krišāns, Kucins and Tutins presented the question “On solutions for the provision of state-paid medical services to children”, which we submit to the Minister of Health for response. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U303	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Inese Ikstena, Romanas Naudiņš, Vita Anda Steela, Jānis Tutins, Ivars Zariņš and Reinis Znotiņš. “ I am! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-02-20-PT13-2041-U304	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
