ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the remote emergency sitting on 16 October 2020. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on the submitted annual draft state budget and related draft laws. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U2	Hello, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” provides for a new procedure for determining the monthly salary of officials of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau, namely the Office official (Speak breaking.) ... determine, in a regulated manner, the value of the post (level of responsibility and complexity), the assessment of the individual qualifications and competences of the individual official, as well as the amount of the basic monthly salary. At the same time, the draft law provides for a reduction in the defined amount of service allowances for employees in the office compared to what... prescribed for judges and prosecutors. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U3	“Pret” has applied for a speech by Member Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U4	Yeah, thank you. Although, of course, the competitiveness of the remuneration of KNAB officials and the appropriate level of remuneration are very important, it is very important... concretely because of the effectiveness of the fight against corruption, it must necessarily be linked to the fact that there must also be some specific court decisions in loud proceedings. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that not only will the remuneration of KNAB officials increase in accordance with the legislative package coming under the laws accompanying the budget, but the Ministry of Economics also intends to increase the remuneration of officials by three million. The Ministry of Welfare is also likely to have solved all the problems and plans to increase the remuneration of the civil service in the existing institutions by one million. Therefore, in my opinion, the increase in remuneration must be linked to concrete results that the public is aware of and that it is done in the public interest and not for subjective reasons, namely, the work of public administration must be more effective and targeted at concrete results, and pay must be linked to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U5	Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission of State Administration and Local Government! Please, let's vote! For - 77, for - 2 and for - 1. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U6	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” provides for the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to designate the body that will implement the functions of the contact point as well as the processing of the information and information requests received in order to ensure the exchange of information between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission in connection with the assessment of foreign direct investments made by the Member States on the basis of security or public policy considerations. Please pass it on to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U7	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on National Security to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Czech Lottery Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U8	Colleagues! On the basis of an assessment of the performance of the cheque lottery, it is concluded that the cheque lottery is an effective way of obtaining data in order to further use the information in the tax administration process for preventive and control measures and to contribute generally to the restriction of the shadow economy. Consequently, the cheque lottery must continue in the next budget period. Draft law “Amendments to the Czech Lottery Law” is necessary to extend the types of transaction supporting documents laid down in the Czech Lottery Law to be registered for participation in the Czech lottery. The amendments to the law are intended to encourage citizens to submit cheques, receipts or invoices for transactions in sectors with a high degree of shadow economy by means of sector cheque drawers. The Act is expected to enter into force on 1 April 2021. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law "Amendments to the Czech Lottery Law", making it a commission responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U10	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Given that the draft law on "Amendments to the Education Act" is included in the budget package, please pass it on to the commissions, and then we will already assess what is not there. Yes, I am calling for a vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U12	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Law” provides for improvement of assistant service in municipalities, universities and colleges, as well as the need to assess it by introducing a uniform questionnaire for assessment of the needs of adults. At the same time, the draft law provides for the extension of assistant service to children with disabilities, establishing the service of an assistant and assistant, providing a care service financed by the municipality, as well as changing the procedure for granting the service. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Law” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U14	Colleagues! I also call for this draft law to be passed on to the commissions, given that it is part of the budget package. And then we'll be on the commissions. Thank you for your support. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Society Services” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U16	Colleagues! This draft law provides that the Consumer Protection Centre is entitled to an online mediation platform for the provider of services on... The European Commission... The infringement of Regulation 2019/1150 should be fined when assessing the conditions set out in the draft law. The Consumer Protection Centre is also entitled to impose on the provider of an on-line mediation platform a coercion fee of up to 2800 euros for non-compliance. That fine or compulsory fine shall be charged to the general budget of the State. Please pass it on to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Society Services” to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak by the Member... Igor Pimenov has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U18	Good morning, honourable Members! Honourable Members! I urge you not to support this draft law. I see that this draft law increases the rates of taxation of natural resources on environmental pollution, abolishes the tax exemption on CO2 emissions, uses peat in technological installations, establishes an unfair proportion of the tax on disposal of municipal waste and on disposal of hazardous waste between the state budget and the municipal budget. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U19	“About” Member Mārtiņš Bondars has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U20	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Thank you to my colleague, Igor Pimenov, for this glittering speech, why we should vote against it. That looked more like a first-reading speech to me, but now, let's go to the Commission, let's see and then we'll see how things go, what we can solve in this field, which we can't. So I call for the vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U21	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 66, no, 19, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U22	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management” aims to improve the planning, preparation and implementation of state and municipal budgets. The draft law provides for better regulation of the budgetary flexibility mechanism in the budgetary management process. Ministers' opportunities for using unused appropriations in the next financial year are being extended. The draft law provides for changes to the deadlines for the preparation and submission of the annual report, the consolidated annual report and the consolidated annual financial report. The draft law provides for improvement of the explanatory section of the Law on Budget and Financial Management and their structure according to practice, as well as clarification of terms “investment” and “state debt” pursuant to the recommendations of the State Audit Office. The draft law aims to strengthen the legal framework on the European Recovery and Stability Mechanism, an important tool for economic recovery and stabilisation. The draft law also provides for further technical and improvement changes relevant to the budgetary planning and execution cycle. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on budgetary and financial management to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U24	Colleagues! This company has a particularly pleasant draft law since the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax’ aims to maintain a reduced value added tax rate of 5 percentage points for fresh fruit, berries and vegetables between 1 January 2021 and 31 December 2023, thus contributing to the development of the fruit and vegetable sectors by reducing the shadow economy, increasing the competitiveness of legal operators and promoting the consumption of fresh fruit, berries and vegetables. The draft law also provides that the VAT overpaid during Covid-19 infection management measures will be assessed and refunded to taxpayers within 30 days. Please support this bill... to be sent to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U25	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Social Protection of the Participants in the Elimination of the Impacts of the Accidents of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the Victims of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant” be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U26	Colleagues! Please send this draft law to the commissions. Therefore, the draft law provides that as of 1 January 2021, the amount of the state social benefit for the members of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant’s emergency response and the family of the deceased participant of the emergency response shall be equal to the amount of the state social security benefit for the persons referred to in Section 13(1)(1) of the State Social Benefits Law. And that's EUR 109. The draft law also provides for the granting and payment of the State social benefit for the period from 1 January 2021 to 30 April 2021 to the extent required by the regulatory framework until 31 December 2020. The draft law provides for a review of the amount of the state social benefit for the participant of emergency relief and the family of the deceased participant of emergency response in accordance with the procedure for reviewing the minimum income threshold established by the Law on Social Security. Please send it to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Protection of Participants in the Execution of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and Victims of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Social Security” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U28	Colleagues! The aim of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security” is to define the thresholds for minimum income, to set the minimum threshold for possible income, as well as to establish the regularity of the revision of the minimum income threshold, contributing to the reduction of poverty and social exclusion in the country. Please refer the matter to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Social Security” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U30	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” provides that from 1 January 2021 unemployment benefit shall be set at 60 per cent of the state social security benefit in force at the date of application for unemployment benefit. Accordingly, the monthly amount of the allowance will increase from EUR 76 to EUR 130 and 80 cents. In the event of the death of the recipient of unemployment benefit, the death benefit shall be granted - the state social security benefit valid on the day of death of the unemployed person, as established for the persons referred to in subparagraph 1 of paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the Law on State Social Benefits. This is EUR 327. A number of other amendments have been proposed that are essential for society, specifically defending less... people who cannot take care of themselves. Please support and refer this draft law to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U32	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” provides that, from 1 January 2021, in the case of death of an insured person’s former family member, the death benefit shall be granted and paid in the amount of the total amount corresponding to the amount of the state social security benefit as defined in the Law on State Social Benefits on the Death of a Family Member. And that's EUR 327. Given that the draft law provides for an increase in the amount of the public social security benefit for these persons, it is increased from EUR 64 to EUR 109. Accordingly, the amount of the funeral allowance will increase from EUR 192 to EUR 327. Please refer the matter to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U34	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” explains the procedure of what is happening with contributions of members of the funded pension scheme in case they have not chosen their own application of the future. In such a case, funded pension capital shall be included in the special budget for public pensions. Taking into account that, as of 1 January 2021, in line with the draft law, the amount of the public social security allowance is to be increased... In paragraph 1... Thus, for people with lower security, it is set at between EUR 64 and EUR 109, and the amount of funded pension capital to be included in the special budget for public pensions will be revised accordingly. Please hand it over to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U36	Colleagues! This draft law is very important for all pensioners. The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions”” provides that from 1 January 2021 the basis for calculating the minimum old-age pension is 136 euros, and for persons with disabilities since childhood - 163 euros. The draft law provides that in the case of Group III invalidity pension is fixed at the basic level of calculation of invalidity pension, which is 136 euros, but for persons with disabilities since childhood - 163 euros. The draft law provides that the amount of the disability pension of Groups I and II must not be less than the basis for calculating invalidity pension - 136 euros. Persons with disabilities since childhood - 163 EUR. The draft law aims to increase the minimum amount of survivor's pension by setting it at 136 euros per month for children under seven years of age and 163 euros for children from seven years of age. Please send this draft law to the commissions for consideration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U38	The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases”” provides for an increase of the minimum amount of compensation for survivors’ losses from 1 January 2021 by setting it at 136 euros per month for children under seven years of age and 163 euros per month for children from seven years of age. At the same time, the draft law provides for the review of the minimum amount of compensation for the loss of a survivor in accordance with the procedure for reviewing the minimum income threshold established by the law “On Social Security”. Please send to the commissions for consideration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U39	Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) by stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On the Rent of Living Spaces” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the State Administration and Municipal Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U40	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Rent of Apartments”” provides that a person whose income and material condition do not exceed the threshold of low income established in the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance and the Regulations of the respective municipal council shall be recognised as low-incomed. Please pass it on to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U41	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Rent of Living Spaces” establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ Member Atis Zakaitistov will speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U42	Colleagues! This is a very important draft law that changes the threshold for guaranteed minimum income. This is the success of this government, which has not been seen for a long time before. Thus, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” provides for the establishment of the guaranteed minimum income threshold of 109 euros for the first or only person in the household and 76 euros for other persons in the household. The draft law sets the threshold for income of a poor household - EUR 272 for the first or only person in the household and EUR 190 for other persons in the household. The draft law provides that each municipality is entitled to set the income threshold of a low-income household not higher than EUR 436 for the first or the only person in the household and EUR 305 for other persons in the household, but not lower than the income threshold of a low-income household. The implementation of these measures will cost 94 million euros in the next year's budget, and this is a significant support for all poor in Latvia. Please send it to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on social services and social assistance to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), which states that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the State Administration and Municipal Commission. ‘ Member Atis Zakaitistov will speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U44	Colleagues! We continue to go through the draft laws prepared by the Ministry of Welfare, which define support for the poor and the precarious people that we have to take care of as a society. The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”” provides that the municipality grants housing benefit as a basic social assistance benefit in compliance with the provisions of the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance and the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations. Please send it to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U45	Ms Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U46	Colleagues! In no way, without objecting at any time to housing benefits, I would like to point out, at an early stage, before we start to look at this draft law - the tenants of denationalised houses are not a social group that needs a benefit in the sense that you want to formulate it. The tenants of denationalized houses are those... a group that has been a long-standing martyrship on the part of the government and that wants not to wait for a benefit as a help to a person suffering from poverty who cannot cope with his... perhaps income and expenditure. The tenants of denationalised houses want justice, want to get them heard and understood by the government, realising that housing benefits are not aid in themselves, but the fulfillment of promises. This is the fulfillment of the statutory promise, the tasks that the government has long had to carry out. In such a case, the criteria laid down in this draft law that this housing benefit is due only to persons who are disadvantaged or poor are absolutely wrong and ask... also to pay attention to the tenants of denationalised houses, who will never agree to the fact that these benefits are due only to some individual... individual criteria. There are many of these people, they want only to make these housing... not benefits, but maybe it would really be better to pay for housing... be fair for all, not just for those who have some status. Please take this into account because this will, of course, be an issue of very great discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in the Resolution of Apartment Issues” establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U48	Colleagues, I understand that there is a group of people whose confidence does not allow the word "benefit" to be accepted. However, whatever the case is called, we call it an allowance and in the country it is called an allowance. I will define what kind of benefits are granted by this draft law, which will enter into force if the budget is supported. Thus, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” provides that, from 1 January 2021, the amount of the state social security benefit for persons reaching retirement age who are not entitled to the state old-age pension or insurance compensation – 109 euros per month. Determine the amount of the state social security benefit for persons with Group III disabilities - 109 euros per month, while for persons with disabilities since childhood - 136 euros per month. Determine the amount of the state social security benefit for persons with Group II disabilities 130 EUR 80 cents per month, while for persons with disabilities since childhood - 163 EUR 20 cents per month. Determine the amount of the state social security benefit for persons with Group I disabilities - 152 EUR 60 cents per month, while for persons with disabilities since childhood - 190 EUR 40 cents per month. To determine the amount of the state social security benefit in the event of the loss of a survivor - 136 euros per month for children under 7 years of age and 163 euros per month for children from the age of 7 years. To extend the right to families raising children with disabilities to receive a family state allowance and a supplement to a family state allowance until the child reaches the age of 20. Establish the right to a child’s birth allowance from the time of the birth of the child. Facilitate the receipt of individual benefits and clarify the conditions for the cost of individual benefits. And this is not a question of pride. For many people, this is a question of survival. And this government offers a significant breakthrough compared to the past in determining these benefits. Please support and send to commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U49	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U50	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Audit Office” provides for mutually aligning norms with the norms of the law “On Budget and Financial Management” regarding the opinion of the State Audit Office and audit report on the time limits for preparation and submission of the annual financial report to the Saeima, including the electoral year of the Saeima. Please pass it on to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U51	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U52	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” provides for the progressive increase of excise duty rates on tobacco products and liquids used in electronic cigarettes, as well as the introduction and gradual increase of the excise duty rate on components of the preparation of liquids used in electronic cigarettes and tobacco substitute products. The draft law provides that as from 1 July 2021, manufactured tobacco, liquids used in electronic cigarettes, components used in the preparation of electronic cigarettes and manufactured tobacco substitutes shall be marked with an excise duty mark. It is expected that about five million euros will be obtained from these excise measures in the state budget, and this will also contribute to a healthier lifestyle. The law also provides for a reduction in the rate of excise duty on natural gas used as fuel, over time (until 31 December 2025). This is being done to reduce CO2 emissions in the country. Please send it to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U53	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Trade Practices” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U54	Colleagues! Colleagues! Well, the title of the bill is the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices. Well, if there's something to change, then there's something to change. I therefore call on the Saeima to vote in favour in this particular case, if included in the budget package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Trade Practices”, which states that it is the Commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Solidarity Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U56	In society, the issue of progressivity is often mentioned for people who receive much higher revenue than on average. This draft law helps to sort out this area. Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act’ provides that the solidarity tax rate will be 25. The tax will be distributed as follows: one percentage point - for the financing of health care services, 14 percentage points - for the special budget of state pensions and 10 percentage points - for personal income tax revenue. Please support the transfer of this essential draft law to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Solidarity Tax", which states that it is the Commission responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U58	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I also call for this law to be passed on so... as the draft budget package already, and I do not have anything to add, as has been said in the annotation. Thank you. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U59	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information”, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as to the Legal Commission. Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Just a minute! We need to understand who is the first to apply to talk about and against this list. Mr Pimenov has not applied before for Mr Zakatistov and Mrs Reizniece-Ozola. So Member Atis Zakaitistov has applied to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U60	The government addressed three key issues when looking at improving the business environment. One is simplicity, the other is justice, and the third is competitiveness. Currently, two thirds of Latvian companies pay relatively high taxes comparable to Scandinavian taxes. One third of Latvia's business environment pays significantly lower taxes, and it is necessary to create a system that motivates all people to operate in the system of standard taxes. Thus, the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law” provides for a gradual limitation of the micro-enterprises tax regime from 2021, with only one person being the owner of a micro-enterprises. This is particularly important, as often people admitted to the micro-enterprises tax regime become hostages in a situation where they are not – without their choice – paid social contributions, so that their social security cushion and future prospects for a proportionate pension are limited. The draft law provides that the tax rate on turnover of up to 25 thousand euros per year is 25 per cent, while over 25 thousand euros per year is 40 per cent. This is necessary to motivate people to choose a regime that is a standard regime and equal to all so that the same rules can be applied to the whole business environment. The draft law provides that from 1 January 2021 the status of the micro-enterprises tax payer will no longer be able to obtain the status of limited liability companies, but from 1 January 2022 the SIA already registered as a micro-enterprises tax payer will not be able to be the micro-enterprises tax payer. This and similar rules provide a reasonable transitional period for people who are currently in the micro-enterprises tax regime to plan their business cycle and to switch to the standard tax regime in a simple way. This is essential... major changes in our business environment. They are intended to make our business environment more competitive. They are meant to make our business environment fairer. And with this, the business environment is being simplified. Please support the referral.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U61	Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U62	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Honourable fellow Members, too. Both this draft law, which provides for a significant increase in taxes, and all the others of us, on our part, will not support a transfer to the Commission, because they must actually be returned to the government for substantial recasting. And there are a number of considerations - why. First. We have already heard that Mr Zakatistova has said that all entrepreneurs have to pay the same tax burden. I think this is a false idea: that all companies are the same. You want to invest all the entrepreneurs in the procrust bed. This means that those who are too big to cut their legs, but those who are too small to stretch longer to fit exactly into the imaginary - perhaps not the right one! - length. In all countries, there is also a different tax burden for small entrepreneurs, who understand that they are different. It is absolutely wrong to imagine that everyone should pay the same amount. This will collect you at the end not more, but less. Another consideration is hasty. In the process of preparing the budget, all tax increases were actually offered in a very late period and were not sufficiently discussed with the public, with those most affected. It was not for nothing that the Minister of Finance, when carrying the portfolio to the Saeima, had to try to break through the wall of the brick - the misunderstanding. This is just one of the symbolic acts that the creative people did, but there are other groups of small business entrepreneurs who do not understand as much. In general, colleagues, we gave up this practice a few years ago - to change tax policy during the budgeting process, because it is a moment when there is too much desire or temptation to simply increase the tax burden without substantial analysis - because of the need for resources to reduce other expenditures. And this is no exception: once again, we see that taxes are actually being raised so that government spending can be secured. The government does not do enough for its own part. For example, in next year's budget only EUR 13 million... we saw savings from the expenditure review. On the other hand, from micro-enterprises, colleagues, you want to raise EUR 21 million, and by transferring the tax burden from larger entrepreneurs, from those who can and make more money to... just on the little ones. We have just passed on to the Commission the amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act. You will see an annotation - the solidarity tax rate is being reduced. And what's the argument? To reduce inequality. So where's it seen?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We want to reduce the tax on recipients of high wages (in the case of Latvia - those who receive more than 60 thousand euros per year) - to reduce inequality?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We want to collect at least EUR 78 million from small entrepreneurs next year (I total... to the increase of national social security contributions... and the increase in the micro-enterprises tax regime... the tax burden in this regime) and in the coming year - already 138 million euros. Colleagues! I believe that this will not be a way to... You will not motivate people to pay more taxes and enter the general regime, but you will motivate them to go into the shadow economy because they will not be able to pull this tax burden. On the micro-enterprises tax regime. What exactly is planned here? Without the rest, the rate will be increased to 25 percent for turnover to 20 thousand euros. You mentioned, Mr Zakatistov, also that we are paying taxes, but some of our entrepreneurs are paying taxes like those in Scandinavia. Our small entrepreneurs will now pay more than they do here in Estonia on such a proposal. In Estonia, the small business regime has been simplified - they will pay 20 percent for turnover up to 25 thousand euros. You may have made mistakes, mixed figures, but it seems that unfortunately not and that you really want to impose such a heavy tax burden on a regime that has been suffering for many years. The other thing. The micro enterprise tax regime will be prohibited from operating in SIA. That means you want the small business to risk everything completely. With your pants. And these are 33 790 micro-entrepreneurs, the vast majority of whom - 20,000 - are entrepreneurs with a turnover of up to 15 thousand euros. Very small businessmen you want to put on such a government diet! This means, in fact, that they will soon be able to put their spoons on because they will no longer need them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U63	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Tax on Microbusinesses", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 60, for - 27, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Please open section ‘Procedure’. Ms Jūlija Stepanenko has applied for the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U64	Colleagues! We are looking today at a very, very important, legislative package of major importance to the country and society. And this is not only about Members of the Saeima who need to understand how to vote and who had the opportunity, of course, to get acquainted with draft laws. We are now providing the whole of society with... for planting in front of us, present this budget package. And I have to say that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has an intellectual potential problem and that one of the members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is Mr Bondara, who is its Head and who cannot present draft laws properly. Maybe let someone else apply instead of him! For we have very many very important draft laws, such as the vehicle tax. We don't just need to call the name of the law. We understand what that is. We need someone else to tell the public, Mr Bondara, what the draft law brings, what negative or positive consequences.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U65	Thank you, thank you. So, time... is minute running. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U66	Colleagues! As mentioned above, there is a special situation in our economy, where there are two jobs in the standard regime... Only two thirds of economic operators. This leads to a situation where, in the standard mode, our tax burden on labour is higher than in Estonia and Lithuania. This, of course, hinders attracting investment. By the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”, the government proposes a first step towards reducing the tax rate for employees. This step will improve the situation of Latvia's business, comparing it to Estonia and Lithuania. The threshold for the application of the unlimited minimum is increased to €1800. This means that our wages in the economy, around 2,000 euros, will be competitive - we will be able to compete with Estonia and Lithuania. So the common policy for economic development is to start with a reduction in labour taxes and improve alternative regimes, simplifying them so that after a certain time many more companies work in the Latvian economy standard mode. This will also allow for a significant reduction in labour taxation in the future. The Bank of Latvia has drawn attention to the issue of the amount of labour taxes in Latvia, and they have recommended a more significant reduction in labour taxes, but as a compensatory measure Latvijas Banka offers an increase in consumer tax or VAT. This government will not increase VAT but has nevertheless found an opportunity to reduce labour taxes. So... The draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” provides that from January 2021... On 1 January, the national social security contribution rate shall be 34,09 per cent. From January 2021, the taxpayer of micro-enterprises is socially insured as a self-employed worker, while the employees of micro-enterprises are employees... in general. With effect from 1 July 2021, minimum contributions shall be introduced. And this is a step, an important step, in the development of the Latvian economy. Inevitably, this will affect large masses of the population. And this is a difficult step, but it is a necessary step for our country to be competitive, for the tax burden to be fair in the country and for tax systems to be simple and easy to understand by people. There is a great deal of clarification before us that needs to be done, and I therefore urge you to refer these draft laws to the commissions so that the public can ask themselves important questions and find answers to them. Thank you. Please pass it on to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U67	Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U68	Dear colleagues, We, too, have this draft law... We urge you to give back, not to commissions, but to the government, for further work. This draft law could be named the same as the Latvian novel – “Purva Bridder”. We're back in the woods without such a stable foundation under the feet. This means, without a very clear, good analysis of how such a rapid increase in social contributions will affect the business environment. On the one hand, of course, there is a very well-understood motivation to take care of all Latvians so that they can be socially secured and protected in crisis situations as well, when there is a need for assistance from the state. On the other hand, it is clear that as fast and as chaotic as the proposed increase in social contributions... this will have the opposite effect: we - on the contrary - for those who currently have the lowest income, who earn much less than others, will impose a further burden on additional payments, which a large part of them will not be able to pay and will certainly seriously consider whether to go out in the shadow economy or to take advantage of those benefits, which the next year's budget also offers at the guaranteed minimum income level. Why should we be careful about such a rapid increase in payments? The following year will reduce national social security contributions by one percentage point to those working under the general scheme - everyone - because it is clear that... well, there is also pressure from entrepreneurs that there are too many payments for the labour force in Latvia. And when we talk about labour taxes, we usually also understand this, however, in the country's social security contributions, not just personal income tax, because they pay in general... the employer... it is part of the total cost. But businessmen... Well, the bigger entrepreneurs who have fought this one-percent reduction are not at all at all at peace. You know well that they will continue to ask the government and already want a clear vision... By the middle of next year... to develop a further plan to reduce these charges, because it is too costly. What you are doing at the same time is you cancel all payments to your little ones over a few years... directly to the same high level. The biggest, most viable, most profitable, most exportable entrepreneurs are even dissatisfied and dissatisfied about this. And I think it's just a fact that we should think about. Besides... And I offer to raise not only national social security contributions. In fact, in parallel to the increase and introduction of the VSAOI for those groups that have paid only a small part so far, the personal income tax is also increased... and other rates. The Microbusiness Tax Act provides for an increase in the rate of 25 percent, royalties... without social contributions - for 25 per cent; patent fees are being abolished at all. Where to go, where there will be a small business, which will not be able to so fast increase in tax payments... pay? In addition, there are a lot of nuances. It is not yet clear where... I understand that there is a plan to deal with this by mid next year. But what about part - time work? Temporary staff? If a person works in several jobs? How will all of this be administered? If there's no income in any month... What will happen in 2023? People will then have to pay or will not... Is that so? Well, at least yesterday, talking to various groups - both creative professions and business groups - it was obvious that there was no clarity. Such a serious change in taxes, such a serious increase in taxes must not be made with closed eyes, must not be made without serious analysis and without discussion with those who will be affected by this increase in taxes. This is a huge mistake. And it is interesting that, as early as the end of August, the State Revenue Service itself, when the government discussed these rapid changes, pointed to a rather high risk - that all this can actually increase the shadow economy and motivate them to make a decision at this moment, perhaps not in the black, but in the grey zone, and go to the black. This is not what we want to achieve. We want people to be socially secure, so it is wise to introduce an increase in social security contributions. Gradually, let a person see the benefits of paying more. Not to add five percent to health insurance! And the next time a person went to a doctor, he would understand that he could really get his service without being in huge queues or paying a lot of money out of his pocket. That would be quite motivational. I think there would be no such resistance. So I call on the government to give it back to the government for further work on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U69	Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! For - 67, for - 12, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. Please open a section on the procedure. Members Ples, Bauman, Bondar, Dombrovskis and Švecova are asking to continue the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 16 October this year without interruption until the examination of all items on the agenda. Can we vote? Please call me! Let us vote on the agenda without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please, let's vote! For - 80, for - 2 and for - 1. So let's keep working without interruption. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U70	The government has prepared this budget package at a very difficult time for society. We are in a Covid-19 crisis that is not made by our own hands. And there are two things in this crisis that we must take into account. First. There is uncertainty and uncertainty about the future in society. And then. The crisis is, as always, an opportunity to reorganise our economy to achieve future goals. This budget package provides the public with clarity about the future and safety of the professions concerned about the increase in salaries: the budget provides for an increase in salaries for medical practitioners of EUR 183 million, an increase in salaries for teachers of EUR 33 million, and an increase in salaries for university teachers of almost EUR 8 million. These are the security guarantees that are provided to the public. Let us come in this crisis with security and clarity! In terms of security, the government proposes to raise the guaranteed minimum income to 109 euros. This means not only security for the professions, but also security for the most vulnerable in the future. This may be incomplete. Perhaps this proposed budget is not in itself a good, mediocre or bad one, but I can say that, at a time of crisis, it is the best possible budget. On the other hand, the crisis offers an opportunity for the economy to shift. The government also uses this. Labour taxes are being reduced and alternative taxes are being reformed, simplifying them and making it possible for people who have not paid social contributions before now to secure their future. No one can be accused of social contributions. In Latvia there is a very complex coverage of alternative regimes, and as a result of alternative regimes people could receive more monthly, but future social security was sacrificed. The government now offers people the opportunity to be safer than their future, their pensions, through participation in the social security system. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” is part of this budget package. I ask you to hand it over to the Commission and to start a discussion on the usefulness of this budget during this time of crisis. I myself firmly believe that, in times of crisis, the best possible budget is better than any budget at all. Please hand it over to the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see that many Members want to talk about and against, but preference is given to those Members who have applied earlier and first. The first applied (in writing) to speak against this bill by Viktors Valainis. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Mr. Valaiņš, we can't hear you! Please turn on the sound. ( Pause) We can't hear you... We can't hear... Mr. Valaiņš, we still don't hear you. I can't hear it. Mr. Valains, we can't hear you. Let us give an opportunity to speak against the next Member on the list. ‘ Igors Pimenovs has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U72	Yeah. I thank you for the opportunity to address Members. I accept that Mr Valaiņa also had something to say in connection with the submitted draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax”. I also thank Mr Atim Zakatistova for his report on what our draft budget is. This is really useful for first reading. But we are now talking about amendments to the law on personal income tax, Mr Zakatistov. And that's what we're talking about: to accept for further consideration by the Commission or not to accept. I agree that much has been done there, but you have not mentioned one... only the line in the draft law that we are now considering, that is, the draft law proposes to change the distribution of personal income tax between the state budget... 25 per cent respectively... 75 per cent for municipalities and 75 per cent for municipalities. At the moment, the proportion is different: 20 and 80 percent respectively. This means that we are subtracting from this draft law tens of millions of euros for municipalities. I don't think that's right. The letter in question has been submitted on behalf of the Government of the Latvian Municipal Union, but at the moment the situation is that with this draft law we are deteriorating the financial situation of the municipalities. I therefore call for this draft law not to be supported and for the commissions not to be given a view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U73	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 54, against - 28, refrains - 1. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies on Passenger Vehicle Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U74	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I will call on you to vote in favour of transferring the draft law on vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax to the Commission. Despite the fact that I... I already have, so to say, complaints that had already come in before I saw... I'm good. I will not read everything that is written in the annotation, but we will do a thorough job on the commission. I therefore call for the vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U75	Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U76	Colleagues! I also call on the draft law amending the law on vehicle operation tax and on company passenger vehicle tax to be returned to the government for recycling, because it is a typical example where it can be seen that there is a desire to simply collect taxes - and, moreover, under false flags, such as the Minister of Transport also tried initially to do, on the basis of achieving environmental objectives, a significant increase in taxes. Now at least part of this error has been corrected. Currently, the law no longer provides for huge registration fees for the introduction and purchase of used cars on the territory of Latvia; this would be a huge blow, especially for people living in regions, because public transport is not too common there and often to some places even... well, once a day can be reached. However, the law is still harmful at the moment, because without telling us what its purpose is, the tax burden is still substantially increased. The fiscal impact of this draft law is about EUR 4 million. Four million euros will be collected from all those who currently use a vehicle. And how is it done, colleagues? The system for calculating CO2 emissions is changed. The old system, the so-called NEDC system, which was more based on laboratory measurements, is replaced by WLTP... I hope I'm talking right... or the new system, which is more a practical consideration of emissions. Such a change should, in fact, be such that the amount of tax does not change, but unfortunately, the tax will increase by 17 per cent at the expense of this change. That's something like that: well, if we devaluation the lats by 17 percent at the moment we introduced the euro. Not fair to users, against members of Latvian society, isn't it? It should also be borne in mind, in particular, that this change is taking place at the expense of cars that are less harmful to the environment, because it is very important, in fact, that the biggest increase in the tax will not be for those big cars, with a large engine and more emissions, but for small ones. Now, for example, one single-litre small car, which is currently subject to a tax of EUR 12, will be paid 66. The sum of EUR 90 will double for one-and-a-half-litre car, which is currently paid for 48. This goes entirely against the objectives that have already been postulated, that we must motivate people to use cars that are less harmful to the environment, smaller cars wherever possible. With our tax policy now... The government is trying to achieve the opposite with its tax policy. The other thing. Again, the small fraud - to say that we don't like the tax being calculated with the whole euro and cents: let's round it! But in all positions, almost all positions, rounding is made up. Again - to the detriment of consumers. Well, that's how we get... even with the fact that registration fees are not currently in place... but still somewhere else in the pocket is kept... we still find it that, overall, vehicle charges will be more expensive than in Estonia and Lithuania. And it should be noted that from next year there will be no rules in force that prevent you from driving in Latvia with foreign numbers. We had the opportunity to do so in the past. Since the European Court of Justice has recognised that such a provision should be abolished, there will be quite a great incentive for our drivers to use the registration numbers of neighbouring countries - Estonia and Lithuania - once again, without paying the State of Latvia almost nothing at all. I think it's one of these... When you make a tax policy, you try to simulate what the result will be. Here I see nothing particularly good: there will be more payments to citizens, and there will be a risk that we will lose the tax payments that are paid here. I call, however, for this draft law to be passed on to the government in order to improve.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies Tax on Light Vehicles”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 26, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to all commissions, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U78	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I would call on you to hand over this draft law to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. We are ready to accept it, we are ready to start working. In fact, this is one of those two draft laws, and because of all this situation around... Let's say today's sitting... To be decided. So... This means that we are adopting public budgets. And it also includes, after our tradition, a draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework, and we will look at that. I call for the vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U79	Thank you. The first of the speakers was Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U80	Colleagues! We're on our own! - neither the medium-term budget nor the next year's budget are in favour, even though the two packages actually contain good things. As we have heard, social security will improve (to a large extent, also as a result of pressure from the Constitutional Court!) a number of groups in society. But overall, the next year's budget and the medium-term budget are like a chair on three legs. We know that the chair on three legs is not too stable. I want to discuss those three legs a little more. In fact, there are three legs: the budget is created at the expense of debt, the budget is created at the expense of local authorities or regional people, and the budget is created at the expense of small entrepreneurs. And for every little more. First, debt. The draft budget for next year envisages a significant increase in debt; the deficit is 3.9 per cent of gross domestic product. It's about four times more... bigger than in others... in recent years. On the one hand, it is, of course, understandable: there is a crisis situation and more needs to be spent. But on the other hand, how much is missing in this draft budget is a clear vision of how this debt is to be repaid and how this deficit is to be paid back in the coming years. And that is why I also believe that, together with this year's budget, at the same time, there should also be information for the Saeima on how European Union funds, the so-called Recovery Fund, will be used. This is about two billion euros, which has also been allocated to Latvia. And the way in which we use these funds will depend to a large extent on whether we will be able to repay them, whether the transformation of our economy will really take place, as Mr Zakatistov has said. I believe that this can be achieved much better through smart investments than by imposing huge taxes on small businesses or eliminating individual tax regimes. There is no such vision at the moment. Secondly, municipalities or people in the regions. Municipalities in the IIN rates... not at rates, but due to the re-allocation of the share will be at least EUR 90 million. In fact, with the increase in the guaranteed minimum income level, with housing, support from orphans and other social assistance that municipalities will have to provide, they will be at least another EUR 50 million; the way the municipalities have calculated will be on their shoulders next year's budget. And now I would like to draw attention to all those Members... especially those from Latgale - look at the situation. The biggest reduction in money will be... Which region? In the region on which we are all political, in all conferences... We are very loud at our breasts and we are saying that we need to develop it most - it is Latgale. Latgale will have the biggest drop. In Latgale people will see the deterioration of their standard of living. You think they are abstract millions, but what does that mean in practice? A million less... Madon, for example... What is planned... This is more than a whole year's social budget for this municipality. This is more than two years for all children with free lunch to provide. Municipalities, which will be significantly reduced in funding, think about whether they will be able to afford municipal police work at all, or whether they will be able to provide the social assistance they need, or whether they will be able to support the education and self-employment groups of their interests. Several municipalities will have a reduction of more than 4 per cent. We remember the times of the crisis, 2008, 2009. Even in that very, very difficult time, the reduction in the social budget was only 3 percent. We understand that at this time when it is important for people to leave more money in their wallet, when it is important to support them, the municipalities are the ones to which... At a time when a person is missing, he is the first to seek help. This will have less money. And thirdly, small entrepreneurs. We have already talked about this, but in fact what we are doing - we are redistributing: we are taking from the small businessman, we are giving back to the big one. And that's not smart! All countries provide support during the crisis, think about how entrepreneurs should continue to work, how to ensure that they do not get social benefits. What we are doing is increasing the tax burden, increasing the tax burden. I think everyone who has read just one economic book understands that during the crisis, they are not doing that. We call not to support this multiannual budget, not to support the draft budget for next year, to put it back to the government, so that it comes with a clear vision of how we will ensure the stability of the country in the long term and not just grow debt and continue the parties.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U81	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023 to all commissions, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 57, for - 24, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the State Budget 2021” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to all commissions, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U82	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I call on you to vote in favour of the draft law on the national budget for 2021 and to pass it on to the Commission. Let us look at the Commission - let's look at it for several days. Ministers will come, Prime Minister will come... or, more precisely, will be connected remotely. You could explain what's going on in the budget... I am surprised, in turn, by the wish of my colleague Dana Reizniece-Ozola to vote against because... Yes, because it is difficult to become a revolutionary from the Finance Minister, it is easier to become a revolutionary from the Finance Minister...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U83	Mr Bondara, please speak of the bill, not of other Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U84	And that's why I'm talking about it... So that we can be 'no' to the national budget for 2021? Well, it's not smart. It's not wise, because it means... that you are against doctors, you are against teachers, you are against university teachers... and so on. In my opinion, it is therefore necessary to refer the draft law on the State Budget 2021 to the Commission for viewing and adopting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-16-PT13-2124-U85	Thank you. From speakers “to” first - and in writing! - she had applied to speak to Dana Reizniece–Ozola. Mrs. Ozola, you want to speak against. Please also sign in electronically. Viktors Valainis, a Member of the European Parliament, has submitted an electronic application to speak against him. Mr. Valains, we can't hear you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On State Budget 2021” to all commissions, as well as to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible! Please, let's vote! -64, against -24, refrains - none. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda for today's sitting. Time for notifications. An important statement is that today's 51st anniversary is celebrated by our colleague Aldis Blumbergs, and we congratulate him. (Applause) Thank you. There's also a record of Members. It was a success. As a result, I closed the emergency sitting on 16 October 2020.
