ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We are continuing the budget meeting. The agenda for the extraordinary remote sitting of the Saeima on 23 November 2020 is therefore under consideration. On the agenda – draft law on vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U2	Hello, honourable colleagues! Dear President, Honourable Members! The proposal put forward by Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Dauge, Dūklavs, Jalinska and Bergmanis provides for a vehicle operating tax on passenger cars first registered after 31 December 2008 and goods vehicles up to 3500 kilograms first registered after 31 December 2011, i.e. not so new cars. The fact, as we have said before, is that the lower taxes on low-emission cars and the higher taxes on heavy vehicles or engines that generate higher carbon dioxide emissions, according to the new European driving method, which recalculates all previous taxes. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U3	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U4	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Thank you to Mr Kirstein for his report. I would remind you once again that we have proposed in our proposal to introduce some kind of progress in the application of the vehicle operating tax, a lower tax, in practice releasing very low-emission vehicles and increasing progressively depending on the increase in emissions. It is to a large extent intended to allow this time that taxes are increased by amending the Vehicle Operating Tax Act... and the Minister really does, 17,3 percent more on average, the fiscal effect is more than six million... to bring with it any sense, or changes in policy, or elements of motivation that would change the public's attention. We know clearly, colleagues, that Latvia has signed the Paris Climate Protocol, and this obliges Latvia to reduce CO2 emissions by 2030. The reduction amounts to two million tonnes of CO2 at this point in time. What we understand, colleagues - the later we start taking some measures, the more difficult it will be and the more expensive it will cost us. Therefore, even when the Minister says that a new proposal will be drawn up in six months' time, it must be taken into account that it will leave us in such a well-known situation as Zeitnot. We are calling for this support programme to be introduced already, which would in fact allow to exempt about 38 thousand drivers in Latvia from vehicle operating tax, which would then be motivated to choose environmentally friendly transport. According to the Auto Association, each year the number would increase by three thousand new and seven thousand bited cars, thus also providing a proper incentive for the import of cars, which was originally one of the objectives of this Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U5	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U6	Dear colleagues, I will not repeat my colleague's arguments about why this proposal should be divided. I think that is a government policy: however, it is necessary to promote more environmentally friendly cars in Latvia, but also, of course, taking into account the purchasing power of citizens and the fact that, compared to all other European countries, our citizens still have one of the lowest income. Of course, we cannot move the European single green course as fast as this one... in the field of road transport as other European countries. But I, my fellow Members, want to draw your attention to this illogical - why the government rejected... refuse this proposal because, in essence, what happens to us? Some time ago, the government offered the same conceptually, but only much more radical. And then, after the indignation in society, the government has shifted to a virtually zero level, where no promotion policy is included in the government's offer anymore. It's purely fiscal... simply raise the car operating tax approximately equally for all. That is why we are facing a very strange situation in which a government that has just become a very radical option now rejects the moderate option instead of offering it a choice between a zero and a moderate option. This, my fellow Members, is such a classic sign of irrational behaviour if it's who, for example,...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U7	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U8	Good morning, dear colleagues! Overall, both the government and I personally believe that we need to think about protecting the environment and, in particular, reducing air pollution. As we know, transport is one of the main environmental pollutants and air pollutants, but it is precisely this proposal that more polluting vehicles are subject to higher taxes. However, in the government and also in our group, the view is that people with lower incomes who buy older cars must not be taxed at higher rates. The proposal by the Group of the Greens/Family Union on higher taxes for the less prosperous is not, in my opinion, the right solution, and other solutions should be sought in the government that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is currently thinking. I would also like to say that, in fact, the debate on the increase in taxes on new and low-polluting machinery, as previously said by Dana Reizniece-Ozola... is wrong or misleading because in fact taxes remain the same but change tax... pollution calculation method - previously was the NEDC method, now there will be WLTP. The NEDC is in laboratory testing mode and the WLTP is in realistic conditions. So it turned out that some cars in real conditions...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U9	Thank you. The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U10	Colleagues! Mr. Butane like a sorcerer who, instead of pulling a bunny out of his hat, shows another trick -- right there, you had a golden coin in your hand, now it's gone! I have one small example of those small low-emission cars, how the tax rate changes, and this is from the presentation of the Auto Association. I think some Members have already seen. In 2020 a litre of petrol Toyota Axio paid an old method of transport exploitation tax of €12, the new method will cost €66. Nissan Qashqai's 2020 one-and-a-half-a-half-liter diesel, by old method - EUR 48, by new method - EUR 90. And that's in the context when you're just talking about having to think about some kind of support mechanism, not actually offering something. My aim is to have this proposal on the agenda so that we have discussed it today. And if you also really come in half a year to have something to compare with. I call for support for those who believe that there should be support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U11	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U12	Colleagues, after Prime Minister yesterday's speaking time, the question that is really happening in the government... I guess it's quite rhetorical, but after Mr. Butane's speaking... What is happening to you in this government? Are you not... there is no Paris agreement like this, there is no commitment to reducing emissions by anyway and so percent, there is no understanding that all emissions are too big... Is there an equal division in three areas? It is transport, energy and agriculture. If Mr Bhutan does not plan to reduce anything in the field of transport now, where does that, forgive me, come from? Or... How does this work at all with all the previous government guidelines and also with you, the Ministry of Transport, and so on? Well, really, what's happening to you in the government, colleagues?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U13	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U14	Continuing, I explained. The NEDC method currently in use is the method whereby CO2 emissions are calculated under laboratory conditions. When it was found that CO2 emissions can be shrunk in laboratory conditions, a new method was introduced for WLTP, which was calculated in real-life mode and found that many machines actually emit more CO2 emissions in real-life mode. As a result, the amount of tax does not change, but simply the machines that showed less emissions in laboratory conditions, but actually more in life, fall out of the lower group of polluting machines and fall into the higher group of polluting machines, but taxes as such do not change. I call for this proposal not to be supported, as it will represent an additional burden for the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U15	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U16	Colleagues! I thank Mr Butan for his clarification, but of course tax changes can be explained by different methods. We have just heard Mr Butane explain how the taxes will be raised in a way for the groups of car owners concerned. One thing is clear, however, is that, in spite of the changes in methods, someone will have to pay more and, as Mrs Reizniece-Ozola pointed out, there are an additional six million. Where will these additional six million come to the Treasury? From car owners, from owners’ pockets, and unfortunately, there is no reduction in the number of cars for the poor. There is only taxing in all areas, and in this case, if you think that you will protect the poor people with their old cars, then that is not the case. So I... I must once again express my surprise at the work of the government in this crisis situation, following the mystical criteria for reducing emissions. We will also be horrifying this area now, and in times of communion crisis, we will get people, drivers in particular, and let them look at them in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U17	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U18	Good morning, colleagues! I am strongly opposed to any tax on road transport. I believe that the group of these decisions, which is included in the budget accompanying the package, is wrong because there is no clear target. If the aim is only to increase tax and thus to raise additional money in the budget, it must also be said, because all the references to green policy are misleading, because it forgets that road transport is just one way of implementing green policy. The most important thing in Latvia is to keep our forests. And there are no clear answers in this budget, which is being done in this direction. Second most important. Instead of sort out green energy production, i.e. sort out OIC legislation, sort out and systemically approach what will be our electricity source in the future... or it will still be TEC-2 when we end the use of coal in the heating, and so on... we are doing only one thing: increasing taxes on road transport owners, which, in general, could only lead to a reduction in the welfare of the population during the economic crisis. So I call for support for this proposal, but not for any changes proposed by the government in this law as a whole. This is a disproportionate burden for Latvian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U19	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U20	Honourable Members, in fact, we discussed quite a lot about these issues here in the Commission. I would like to remind you that there will be two programmes. By 2030 many countries will be banned from selling cars with internal combustion engines, i.e. only electric cars or hydrogen cars, or for some time still cars using natural gas or biogas. So that we actually need two programmes, a small-scale car reduction programme and a second programme, which is linked to support for emissions-free transport, which requires a lot of money. It is understandable that the government has obviously not been able to develop during the community, but we, as has already been mentioned and the Minister promised, will return to these issues in six months' time, and we will gradually need these two programmes - the reduction of emissions in some way combined with a support programme, a strong support programme for cars that are emissions-free transport as such. The Commission has not yet supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U21	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 53, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U22	Proposal No 4 has been submitted by Member Sprūde. The proposal provides in addition to Article 4... to add the seventh paragraph of Article 4 to the proposal not to apply the rate to those cars which are subject to the preferential scheme provided for in the fifth paragraph of Article 7 and for which the number of seats exceeds five. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U23	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U24	Dear colleagues, More than a year ago, more than conceptually at first reading, the Saeima has supported (and I also thank the coalition Members for this) our proposal that an additional rate, which entered into force on 1 January 2019, i.e. EUR 300 per 3.5... An motor vehicle costing EUR 150 per year for multi-child families should be abolished for the reason that multi-child families, especially with four plus children, cannot use conventional vehicles with five seats. Therefore, an opportunity is being sought, what is this opportunity on the Latvian market, to find cars that would be safe (repeat - safe!) and conveniently carry children. Big families. Unfortunately, I must say that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission continues to make this proposal, this draft law, despite the fact that quite reasonable proposals have been tabled at second reading. And we, in turn, took these into account with our colleagues. This proposal came from Mr Zakatistova and it stipulated that cars with more than five seats, which are absolutely logical, should be exempted from the additional rates. So the cars that are Dodge Caravan or Chrysler Town & Country, the big cars from America that have been put on, most likely, gas appliances to make them more efficient, would be exempt from additional tax for multi-child families, because it is not reasonable, it is not even fair to charge extra tax on the part of the state to large-child families because they want to carry their children in one car rather than in two or not yet known.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U25	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U26	Colleagues, this really would be a support for large families, because large families are physically unable to put children in a five - seat car. Greater cars are needed, which unfortunately also means that there is a bigger engine and a higher vehicle operating tax at the moment. I call on my fellow Members to take this issue in their hands - the Member - and to vote 'in favour' because we obviously will not welcome the proposals from the Ministry of Transport. Even though, I remind you, when the Ministry of Transport came with this bill, as if thinking of environmental objectives, it was a proposal to tax vehicles that have been used and which are imported into Latvia for the first time with the introduction of a new registration fee. The proposal, as it looked at at the time, would in fact be the most likely to hit such larger, usually older cars, especially in regions, by families cannot afford new cars. At the same time, the parliamentary secretary said publicly that no, which you obviously do not understand - we will, however, tax Ferrari and Bugatti, which have large diesel engines, without even understanding that Ferrari and Bugatti are not using diesel engines at all. There is obviously no understanding, there is simply a desire to collect additional taxes, as now even after the law has been amended, by refusing registration fees, colleagues, however, more than six million euros will be collected from Latvian citizens' pockets. And absolutely without any point, without any other point than ensuring fiscal effect. There is neither a programme of support for low-income families, nor a multi-child family, nor any specific proposal to achieve environmental objectives. And that is obviously not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U27	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U28	I am addressing Mr Eglišs and Mr Dzintars. Thank you for your support for this bill. I would also very much expect consistent action from you today by voting in favour of an improved proposal which states that cars owned by large families with more than five seats, so that they will not be Bugatti or Porsche or any other luxury car that was subject to an additional tax in 2019... These are about 100 large families to whom you will help, make it easier, really fair from the country, rather than keeping this extra rate. Because many children’s families can’t simply sell this car one day or burn it or put it into scrap metal. They use this car for a long time, and they have to carry children in this car. I very much call on you, colleagues, to support this proposal, because the Ministry of Finance...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U29	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U30	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, society! I call for support for the proposal. I invite you to support many children’s families, especially Raivy Dzintars, who praised himself at the convention on Saturday. I also call on him to support many children's families and take care of the demographics, otherwise we have the feeling that we really do not have the votes to protect the true family institution. Raivi Dzintar, especially to you, my fellow Members, I am looking forward to pressing 'for' when your whole group will press 'for' to vote in favour of large families. You have always talked about the development of demographics, about helping people, but you always vote 'no'. This is the moment: it will be enough to talk about the fist and the fortunes, start to get started to work, start to financially support the people of Latvia, Latvians, Raivi Dzintar, start to support... Latvian multi-child families should start to support them. And all Latvian citizens... Therefore, all who speak Latvian should start to support this proposal. Otherwise, Raivi Dzintar, your convention alone will have had such an empty talk, threatening once again with Russians and something that is not yet there. Since this is a decisive proposal that will show the true face of Raivy Dzintars, he will show whether he is about Latvians and many children's families, or whether he is just such an empty speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U31	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U32	The fact that the opposition is forced to submit such a proposal to the law shows only that the Cabinet of Ministers and its Minister are not fulfilling their duties. They only take care of taxing and do not care about it; they do not think about the effect that such taxing will have on specific groups of citizens. I would like to remind you that Members of SASKA had submitted a draft law to freeze the Cabinet of Ministers on Friday... salaries of ministers and parliamentary secretaries. And I call on the Saeima - both the position and the opposition - to submit unanimously to the Saeima a bill... to convene an extraordinary meeting and examine this draft law, because there is a need for a mechanism that will force ministers to work systemically and really take care of the well-being of citizens next year. I call for an extraordinary sitting to be held first in order to examine the draft law on the freezing of the salaries of ministers and parliamentary secretaries, referring to draft law No. 866/Lp13 and the inclusion of representatives of the opposition in the crisis management board in order to develop a truly effective pandemic crisis management plan, because that is what the Prime Minister, whom we heard yesterday, is saying, is... it had only one effect: people are confused about what is happening in the country and what to expect from the Cabinet in the coming days. Please have an emergency sitting and include the opposition in the crisis management centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U33	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U34	Dear colleagues, This might look like a maybe even a rather insignificant proposal for someone... overall background, but it still gives grounds to ask quite serious questions about demographic policy in the country. All right, you do not want, colleagues from the coalition, to support this proposal, which is still aimed at large families, towards promoting demographics. So the question is, what are you offering instead? Did Mr. Dzintari have been able to find them in his 80s or how much it was... millions of euros, for which there seems to be some kind of agreement that will be used to promote demographics, colleagues? I'll remind you: if we're talking specifically about car operation, then we have a car, after the Baltic... According to the Auto Association, the cost of operating a car in Latvia is three times higher than in Estonia and almost five times higher than in Lithuania. And especially for those who, at least in words, talk so much about demographics and who are so excited about, for example, countries like Hungary, people like Victor Orban... Have you, fellow Members, read what the seven-point plan of President Orban for families has been for some time now? One of these points, such as colleagues, is that the Hungarian Government actually grants a subsidy of 2.5 million forint so that large families can buy new cars with at least seven seats...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U35	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U36	Yes, so support for large families is concrete. This small proposal is significant precisely for the reason that it will show whether Raivis Dzintars can only yell in words: "There are Russians coming and there Shleser... “ or can push the button and vote “for” multi-child families. Always says it's about demographics or something else, this is the moment. Let us see how Raivis Dzintars and the National Association vote, and then let us see the true face of these people, because all the promises that have been made by Amber have been just promises, promises, no real actions. There is real activity possible, real, small, small (in fact, a very small amount of money) support for large families, because, as you know, large families cannot be put into a machine with little space, can they not? Those with many children will understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U37	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U38	Yeah. Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! I would have a question for the coalition Members... Budget sittings... Why can't the State of Latvia afford a hundred buses with a diesel engine to remove from the tax burden directly for large families? I'm not the answer. Maybe you could tell me here how much it would cost, how much it is in the budget... how much it hits the Latvian budget treasury, because I do not have information. I am still waiting for explanations from the coalition, because I cannot imagine that one hundred families of diesel or gas cars in Latvia could not really afford to pay. So I'm asking the commission manager... Martin Bondar, please tell me what... Why not? Because the opposition just... This is no longer a criticism. I really look forward, please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U39	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U40	Colleagues! The question is in place. I cannot, of course, speak in place of the chairman or vice-chairman of the Commission, but I can say that such discussions are extremely rare in nature at meetings of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. I think that discussions on the substance are only taking place to us when coalition Members themselves submit their proposals, as is the case, for example, with regard to... from the National Association, we're used to... they are often proposals for... related to private educational institutions. Then what kind of discussions are going on in nature. If there are proposals from members of the opposition, it is difficult for me to remember the substance of a debate involving members of the positions, which would justify and justify why this proposal is not good, why it has been rejected, which they are offering instead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U41	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U42	The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U43	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The Commissioner's Scratch proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 44, refraining from - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U44	Proposal 5 is similar and tabled by Member Stepanenko. Neither is the Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U45	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U46	Colleagues! I would just like to remind those who promised to vote 'yes' and 'no' that we really had a very long debate at first reading, when we presented this bill more than a year ago, and this first-reading debate was made both by Mr Feldman and, in my opinion, by Mr Kaimiņš, if I am not mistaken. And then the coalition decided to support sensible proposals from the opposition, which were also quite constructive. I would like to remind you that no one was presented from the Ministry of Transport... no claim for this draft law, except that perhaps it should not apply retroactive force. We do not have that in this proposal either. The only reservations from the Ministry of Finance that came up on this proposal when we are talking about the first-reading bill, which is stuck thanks to Mr Bondara's commission... The only claim from the Ministry of Finance was that there are some 183 multi-family cars, which are subject to this additional rate, i.e. those with a 3,5 engine and more. And there are those cars that... luxury cars, so there are some large-scale families with these expensive cars - Porsche, Bentley and so on. It might be, I don't know, but... And the only objection was that if we cut all... We are subtracting this additional rate, so it will not achieve the goal of helping large families of children. Let me repeat, colleagues. This was corrected by this proposal, because we put a number of seats in this proposal, so it is precisely targeted to support large families with four plus children... who can't afford to carry their children...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U47	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U48	Latvian society, I would like to place particular emphasis on you: previous vote on support for large families, cars, tax incentives... The National Association and Raivis Dzintars, who promise the support of demographics, voted... did not vote in favour. The support required on this issue from many money amounts to around EUR 21 000. About 21 thousand euros for you to understand. This is the fight, it is the fight against the fiery and the obscuration of demographics, by voting not in favour, but otherwise, so that this proposal is not supported. It's the whole face of these great demographic fighters. There are relatively few large families with these cars. Very, very little. Because many children's families can't afford to carry all children in Latvia at all, because people in Latvia are not rich. But Raivis Dzintars votes not for, but only for the support of demographics and will promise in 2022 or, I do not know, in 2044 this support, but not this year, but from 1 January, but not last year, because such a proposal was in principle last year. He's not interested. This Saeima has worked for more than two years about plus minus. They are not interested in large families, support for large families. These are our demographic fighters from the National Alliance, remember it, dear society!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U49	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U50	If, colleagues, the Ministry of Finance has said something like that, it is hard to argue, but it is really very difficult to imagine in Latvia a large family of children who would drive with a seven-seat Porsche. But this situation should also be addressed. If we really want to support multi-child families, then this is a good opportunity to do so and to offer a reduction in vehicle operating tax for large-seat cars, while at the same time introducing a solidarity tax for expensive cars with a price of over EUR 50,000. We remember: a few days ago, we discussed, more rightly, the opposition debated this prepared proposal, which would be precise to deal with such situations if we were afraid that a large family could also afford to buy a better branded car. That would be the solution. I call once again, colleagues, if you do not support yourself now... Then come... If you do not support the opposition's proposals now, come with your own solutions and not at all for half a year, by year, it will be the next elections. You can't get it!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U51	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U52	Thank you. Colleagues! The solution would be to force Mr Bondara to work once and to put this bill, which is stuck in the Commission, at the end of second reading, on the basis of Mr Zakatistova's proposal on the number of seats. That would be very easy to solve. But since we have no hope of Mr Bondara's capacity for work, we have encouraged this proposal to be included in the draft budget. And I would like to remind you that this devastation actually came on 1 January 2019, thanks to Mr. Debtor's proposal, which, without thinking, did not sort these cars, simply offered them (not to be heard.) ... this additional rate of 300 euros for engines, probably thinking that everyone is just driving expensive luxury cars and forgetting that very many people... We are not even talking about those people who live in rural areas with no more than four children but who use these buses for their own needs...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U53	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U54	I heard that: Saturday Raivis Dzintars said that he has enormous diplomacy. Then I would call for this proposal, Raivi Dzintar, if you fight for demographics, you immediately show its diplomacy! Convinc the whole coalition and be so courageous too, and vote in favour of the many children's families! There is little support. You're sorry for 21,000? You don't feel sorry for millions of millions of all kinds of incomprehensible things - prisons and something that isn't there yet, airBaltic and anything else... You're sorry for 21 thousand large families. That's the face. And when this unpopular budget ends, the next one... the first question will be about the introductions that the Russians come and all this story, which has always been 30 years. That's the only thing you know! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U55	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U56	Dear colleagues, That is really the point: why is it for the ruling coalition, why does the government so sorry about the 21 thousand euros to support this very modest proposal? Just 21 thousand euros! And instead, the Ministry of Finance writes letters in which it suggests that it will benefit some owners of Maserati and so on. But at the same time, Hungary is ready to offer each multi-child family a grant of EUR 7000 to buy a seven-person car. So the Hungarian Government is ready to give such families - everyone! - EUR 7000 to buy a seven-person car, but you, dear members of the coalition, regret to support this proposal from the opposition, obviously only because Julija Stepanenko is a member of the opposition, with a fiscal effect of EUR 21 000. Colleagues, you're... You can look at yourself in the mirror after that? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U57	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U58	Treatment of large families is always an example of social policy in each country. Here, in this Saeima, many conservatives and less conservative forces of the past and times of the USSR. I'll remind you. Once in Latvia there was a company “RAF”, which produced microbuses. And ever, in your lamaty times of the USSR, these rafts were given to families of many children so that these families could go out to nature, outside the city, and so on. I think that Latvia could only do the same in the light of the Paris Convention and the desire of the Ministry of Transport to run the train with the implementation of this Convention, showing a model lesson for Europe as a whole. Maybe we'll actually buy all these families electric cars as much as necessary and necessary for these families so that they don't sit in the apartments during the pandemic but go outside the city. That would, in my opinion, be an excellent initiative that could certainly be supported by those parties who see themselves as supporters of demographics and show that Latvia's attitude towards large families could also serve as a model for other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U59	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U60	For the sake of truth, I just wanted to add that there are different cars, and not everyone is driving large cars with more than two or 2.5 litres, for example. The most beneficial are apparently Volkswagen minibuses with a capacity of two litres or 2.4 litres. Remember, at the other end, there are American cars that are allowed to sit on the front seat for six passengers - six four-liter engines... and so on. Here, it should obviously be a bit more precise in their graduation, and I also hope that this government will obviously develop in some way to the next June how much we will still have to adjust this law anyway. The Commission has not supported these proposals, as it did in the past.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U61	And the proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U62	The proposal tabled by Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Dauge, Dūklavs, Jalinska and Bergmanis examines the proposals for technical operating taxes on cars of up to 3.5 thousand kilograms gross registered for the first time after 1 January 2005 and containing information on the full mass, engine capacity and capacity on the registration certificate. Thus, relatively old cars with these three factors are summed up. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U63	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U64	Colleagues, this is part of the concept that we have described above, which provides for lower taxes and tax relief for a low-emission car, a larger - more emissions for old cars... older cars. Colleagues, following this change proposed by the Ministry of Transport in vehicle operation tax, we will increase the tax gap between the Baltic States. And given that from 1 January next year there will be... We will also be forced to remove the restriction to drive vehicles registered abroad in Latvia without any extra charge, then there is a quite high risk that simply increasing taxes and not giving any support instrument, such as low-emission younger cars... then there is a great risk that cars with foreign numbers will again appear in Latvia, because simply because the Auto Association has estimated that for us in five years with Estonia, 3.3 times differences are in tax payments for road transport and with Lithuania in five years even 4.4 times. This is another additional argument why at least if we want people in Latvia to buy cars and drive with Latvian numbers and pay the tax... then, at least in any segment that we also want to see on Latvian roads, there should be a significant tax relief, which would also help to achieve their environmental objectives. For, my fellow Members, I find such a good comparison so that you click so that you understand what we need to reduce our CO2 emissions by 2030. We have 28 percent of all emissions from the vehicle... vehicles or the transport sector, and in order to achieve their goal, we should stop two thirds of the whole of Latvia's fleet at the moment. It is clear that only cars and greener cars will not be able to solve this problem, but something needs to be done.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U65	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U66	The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! On - 28, against - 56, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U68	7. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides for a vehicle operating tax on two, three and more trailers. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U70	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission on the payment of tax on trailers. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U72	9. - The proposal by Member Karina Scratch. It provides for a tax credit for a person who has three or more children together with the spouse. This discount would amount to 50 per cent of the vehicle operating tax. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U73	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U74	Dear colleagues, Rejection of this proposal by the Commission - this has shown how, unfortunately, work takes place within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission at a very low level. Let me explain to you the substance of this proposal. This proposal follows on from the proposal submitted by the Legal Office to us... The previous draft law that we have just debated... on the abolition of the additional vehicle toll rate for large families. For the second reading, this draft law, which is still stuck in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... first reading... A number of amendments have been tabled. One of them was Mr. Zakatistov... Amendment, which we once again... We also submitted this bill at the time. The second proposal was a proposal by the Legal Bureau, which laid down a more precise definition of the concept of a ‘multi-child family’ so that this definition would be uniform in all laws. The Legal Bureau, in order to ensure that these rules are harmonised and more precise, submitted a more detailed proposal on how to... how the wording of the concept of ‘multi-child family’ in the vehicle toll law should look at. In the light of the idea and proposal of the Legal Bureau, we presented this proposal in order to... simply because of this, honourable colleagues, in order to improve and clarify, legally clear the concept of "family"... the definition of ‘mutual family’. There is absolutely nothing in this proposal that you might doubt or fear at the moment that it could have a financial impact in some way. It is quite clear, colleagues, that this work is going on in the Commission so poorly that you have not even thought about what this is about, although...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U75	The name of the Minister of Transport to Far Linkaith.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U76	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I wanted to thank Julia Stepanenko and Karina Sprūde for this proposal. This should indeed be included - in the specified form of course - in this tax regulation in the future. The government... and also in the Ministry of Transport, following on from this proposal, we concluded that it is only part of the common regulatory framework, and we are ready when we come in the second half of next year with such a general change and assessment of the vehicle operating tax... then we are also ready to make a similar proposal. So thank you colleagues. I call for this time not to be supported, even though the proposal is, by its very nature, valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U77	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U78	Thank you. Colleagues! I am very sorry that Mr. Linkaita did not come up with previous proposals on which... we made a proposal to reduce this... prevent this injustice against large families. Unfortunately, I did not hear Mr. Linita's comment at that time, but this comment shows that the government's work is extremely poor, because... Once again: I propose - together with Karina Sprūds - that this definition be clarified in accordance with the proposals made by the Legal Bureau. There is nothing here that anyone might fear: there is no jealousy, and there is no fiscal effect either. I do not really understand where the problem is to support this proposal at the moment. But if you want to continue to live with an inaccurate definition, it is, of course, Mr. Linkait, just your problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U79	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U80	Colleagues! First of all, I will say that, however, I appreciate Minister Lindhait's... both ready and able to take part in this debate. I think... Let me remind everyone here that, for this moment, the only minister who, for the second time, if I am not mistaken, is taking part in this debate! The fact that a minister really participates in this debate, given that there is a parliamentary secretary of his ministry here - this is, of course, also an assessment of the work of the parliamentary secretary on the part of the minister... Well, those who have this... After you've noticed... and understood. But in general... Both colleagues and the Minister... the fact that you're saying... Well, in fact, you say very openly... you even acknowledge that this is obviously a modus operandi of these coalitions - a mode of operation that even when you are ready to publicly acknowledge that the Member of the opposition... The opposition Member has put forward a valuable and sensible proposal, and you do not support it (it would be logical to support a valuable proposal!) , calling for it to be rejected in order to be subsequently submitted by the government, obviously relying on the public media to reflect this, of course, so that this was a government proposal, and will not mention any words about the fact that it had been presented in the past at all - perhaps even repeatedly! - a member of the opposition. Of course, some people will be able to be fooled in this way. But remember that it is possible sometimes to fool some people, but it is impossible to fool all people all the time, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U81	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U82	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office, colleagues. I'll keep going. Minister! This proposal has not just been made for the tables in this budget or for the debate in this budget. This proposal has been circulating for at least two or three years... at least... during this parliamentary term. And it is simply unforgivable that at the moment you are going to do it a year later, remembering that it is also a year of pre-election. And it's also unforgivable that when the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission had discussions about the budget, it was possible to talk about it all, then it could change. And when you were drawing up the budget, you could still have looked at what the previous proposals had been and also talk to the Members. Because it is Members' work at this point that try to influence the budget (in spite of the judgement of one judge of the Constitutional Court about what is higher in shaping the budget - the Cabinet of Ministers or still the Saeima). Once again, this proposal is not a new proposal, but one that has just been made, and therefore the excuse that it may be in a year's time, fails to pass criticism. And also the fact that the financial impact is not as great and could be done as... support the proposal... That's... would support both 85... or how many millions of investment is there... sometime... from 2022... large families, including, but not limited to... Such small steps are more valued than the reservations that it will be in a year's time, given that it will be a year of pre-election. And at this point you will hardly be able to rely on your good faith that you will respond to the fact that this proposal has come from other people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U83	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U84	This proposal, nine, is one of many, but it is very classic as an example, one that, let us say, one of the ministers of the government speaks and says honestly that it is a very good proposal and should be supported, but it cannot now be supported, after some time it will be supported, because there is still a need for some agreement and something like that. What do I mean by this example? That this example illustrates our public administration as a whole. Our public administration system is not such as to figure out and do right away. Our public administration system... This proposal shows, as an example, that it is - it can be marked with three letters 'l', 'l', 'l' - a limp, lingan lerpath. It is not capable of making decisions when they are to be made. It is only able to sleep, to delay to something there next year, that is, never to accept! Not... Well, how should you actually be? What should such a real old man do, a real minister? He should say: yes, a very good proposal, I call on my group members and the coalition to support it now; let us not take a long time, let us correct the mistakes so that work can progress! But a bleak, lengan lerpata says, one year later, two years later... Well, sometime, you don't know when. And that's the whole government! This is not only the case in the Ministry of Transport; it is absolutely everywhere - from the Prime Minister to the Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U85	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U86	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! On this proposal, I would like to say that I too, of course, call for its support. But the Minister of Transport... It's rather that after this week... past week long debates... It is a feeling that someone has started to study these proposals and to read them from the point of view. As we noted last week, half a minute was needed for one proposal by the government to reject what came from the opposition, but I think more time was certainly spent on the proposals of the coalition Members. However, this case is such a strong proof that the opposition has forced someone to go into these proposals, and that it has been found, as a surprise, to be a good proposal. Although there is little fiscal impact on this, however, I call for this proposal to be supported and thus to show acceptance for large families. And so, too, the opposition's opinion would be heard to some extent. So far I see clearly that the opposition has achieved the start of reading the proposals that the opposition has put forward. Your representatives, perhaps Members will also start to do more. And maybe it would make sense to start looking at the budget from the beginning so that the government really get acquainted with all the proposals that the opposition has put forward. Thank you. And I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U87	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U88	Honourable Members! In agreement with what the Minister for Transport says, I would also like to remind you that new European Union rules will also enter into force shortly, allowing the car to be registered anywhere in the European Union. This means that in any case, Latvia will have to reconcile with these taxes... with Estonia, Lithuania. Otherwise, a lot of money will flow from Latvia directly because of car registration... and all the other things... And obviously a tax like vehicle operation tax... it can disappear at all in many countries. Instead, it is obviously more correct to increase... either put something on excise duty, or in some other way... So, as I said, it is a complex measure, in coordination with the other programme, on which the government will work (at least we hope, and we have received such a promise). So, in the case of an emissionsless car, full harmonisation with Lithuanian and Estonian taxes, so that there is no leakage from this car, which is registered elsewhere. And so are the proposals that have been made here... The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U89	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mrs. Scrape's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 33, for - 49, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U90	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. This also clarifies the arrangements for reducing TEN by 50 per cent for families with three or more children. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U91	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U92	Thank you. Colleagues! I really had hoped until the last moment that this definition... this clarification of the definition... that you would not have any obstacles to support it, but - here we are! Indeed, for many children's families we are forgetting this budget at all! Very well, of course - you have shown yourself. I was a little confused about what the Minister said in a correlation with what the rapporteur said. Minister, I understand, still thinks maybe sometime... on the extension of possible support to large families (even though large families should have the right - without extra cost to the country - to carry their four or more children in larger cars), but the rapporteur said that something would be radically changed at all. And I understand that... support for large families in this programme does not belong at all if I understand correctly. I really admire these comments about the fact that, yes, we also have several smaller cars on the market, such as these, because many children's families usually burn their old car every Christmas and run to the store to buy a new one - this is a tradition in our country. We have very rich many children's families - every year we find ourselves in a newer model, a smaller volume, and live in a hat with a swing, as we know, with Maserati and Bugatti, and so on. Everything is very clear. I understand that you have a really clear understanding of the life of large families in Latvia, about their needs, about their opportunities. And thank you, fellow Members, for this vote: you are really beatings! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U93	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U94	Yes, good morning! Thank you. It is obvious that over the last few years, purposefully... demographic balance results are increasingly worse and worse every year. In other words, less and less births are taking place, and this year, you could even say that there is a record of the birth of children, but the negative record is reached. This clearly shows that there is no systematic, targeted and effective support programme for large families. These proposals, proposed by the independent Members, are just some of the instruments that could support such families and that could motivate people to decide to form large families. It is obvious that the Minister of Transport has heard or heard what the opposition is offering, but unfortunately, there is information in the public space that the Ministry of Transport intends to reduce the requirements for heavy-duty machines transporting timber (which are strongly opposed to by road operators, and this will cause additional problems in terms of the quality of roads), but why cannot be heard and cannot be quickly supported by a proposal that will help families with children to move more qualitatively and decide to have more children in the world. In my opinion, such action is inconsistent and essentially does not correspond to the situations of problems that exist in Latvia. We have problems with demographics, but we do not have problems with deforestation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U95	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U96	Yes, colleagues! If you want to know what it is to be ridiculed about national values, then know that they are votes against large families. And the actual author of this vote against multi-child families is Raivis Dzintars from the National Association and the National Association as a whole. It is a party that places many children's families and national values as the main slogan, but always votes, as we see in the budget for fuel years, against large children's families. It is a joke, looking in the eyes of the whole people of Latvia. I very much hope that such politicians who dive into their eyes and vote against large families will not enter the next Saeima. I know these politicians believe that nothing will change and they already... they are already guaranteed these places for life, but as we see, the times are changing. Time changes quite quickly. The sentence “Russia is coming!” no longer work, think of something new. Now Gobzem! , but yelled for national values, not Gobzem... In these votes, Gobzem has always voted in favour, but those who abstain or vote against and those who do not vote in favour. In particular, “in favour” does not vote Raivis Dzintars, Imants Debtor and the entire National Association. So, beloved society, remember it forever. Remember this when you are told how this party is fighting for demographics and Latvians in Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U97	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U98	I would like to add a little bit to it. Yes, colleagues, I really tried to also address the coalition Members before this vote in the committee, explaining and trying to really remind them once again of what they have supported at first reading. I also tried to address a KPV LV member who, together with us, presented this bill at the Saeima. Her signature is there - Iveta Benhen-Beeken, and I reminded her of it: “Here is our draft law. Could you, please, also not support this, because you have also put forward proposals and I have included them in this proposal - the budget." I received a very clear answer to my request: “I admire you!” That was the smile of Iveta Benhen-Beeken, and that was her ridicule for members of the opposition. Colleagues, you really admire...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U99	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U100	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues,
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U101	Mr Kazinovsky, we do not see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U102	Oh! What do you mean? Now you see, don't you?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U103	No, we don't see you. ( Technical problems. Pause.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U104	You see me?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U105	One moment, Mr. Kazinovsky!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U106	See?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U107	I understand that colleagues see. There's an image next to the computer. Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U108	I would like to say the following: This proposal is really very important, it is welcome, but where is the problem? Unfortunately, it must be admitted that the coalition Members are not free in their votes - they cannot freely choose this or any other proposal to support, because, not to give God, a good proposal that is financially... maybe additional funding will be needed or revenue will have a bot or additional expenditure... This would be a derogation from all canons. That's what it is! Free Members, including I, as an independent Member, can make a choice and support this type of proposal. This simply shows that the electoral system in Latvia needs to be changed. Mixed... A proportionate electoral system is not appropriate. The mixed electoral system could be one that could deal with this type of problem in the future. I would ask my colleagues to think very seriously about this. I support this proposal and call on the other Members to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U109	Thank you. Technical break for five minutes, so by 10.25 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U110	We are continuing the debate on proposal 10. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U111	Colleagues! I would like to respond to Mr Kazinovsky. I think that the political groups also have great choice as to how to vote, not only to the independent Members. An example of this was the first two months of this parliamentary term, and then it is true that the political groups voted for their conscience - according to the promises made to the voters. At least they tried to do it. And that was not voted for! It was voted to raise medical fees and to abolish the compulsory procurement component... There were also many other good decisions, and we could see what is important to the group. For some, they had a standard of solidarity tax... Also an attempt to abolish them, for others these were other issues. With regard to proposal 10, I would like to say that, in general, the draft law entitled 'Amendments to the vehicle operating tax and company tax on light-duty vehicles' was introduced in this budget package with just one idea: to increase the tax burden on us citizens. The opposition put forward proposals with just one idea: to improve this situation slightly, especially for large families of children. There is also this whole proposal. I am therefore particularly sad about the fact that none of this has been supported, but only about reducing the burden. I will therefore continue to say that we will have a very difficult winter and this bill will make it even more difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U112	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U113	This proposal is similar to a previous proposal and the Transport Minister already explained the substance of the proposal. I would just like to add that it is not true that Latvia is the only country with a vehicle operating tax; it is true in most countries of the European Union. And the only country that has no taxes at all - Estonia is, the rest of the countries have this or this kind of... but taxes on cars exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U114	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U115	Yeah, thank you. I would like to say that the competitiveness of the tax system is one that also determines how good or bad people live in the country. It is clear that the only real objective of this draft law, which we are looking at now with the rest of the budget package, is the fiscal impact, or the collection of additional taxes. No instrument to stimulate any sector that might actually have to anticipate the financial resources that will be raised in addition appears in the draft law; neither support for a multi-child family initiative nor real opportunities for citizens to buy more green vehicles. And so... If tax changes occur, they should be systemic, thought-out and impact. This bill is not one that makes us able to compete with our neighbours, it does not make life better for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U116	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U117	The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U118	Neither can the proposal be put to the vote. Time to break. Prior to that, Members' registration. It's over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U119	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax”. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U120	Honourable Members! The 11th proposal has been submitted by the Minister of Transport, Tālis Linkaits, and this proposal concerns vehicles of categories M1 and N1 registered abroad... on the tax formula... calculation of the tax according to the number of months in which the car was used in road traffic in Latvia. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U121	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U122	As we know, in the past, Latvian citizens who have registered their cars abroad... they were subject to abnormally high tax rates in the territory of Latvia – higher than if these cars had been registered in Latvia. And that's why an infringement procedure was launched... The European Union launched an infringement procedure in which it found this fact. And that's why this proposal, which... to prevent such injustice against Latvian citizens who have registered their cars abroad, namely to apply to them the same tax rates as to cars registered in Latvia. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U123	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U124	Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U125	Members have asked for a vote. So let us vote in favour of the proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal submitted by Minister Lindhaita! Please, let's vote! -63, against -2, refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U126	Ladies and gentlemen, proposal 12 - these are tables for calculating taxes depending on... trucks over 12 tons... depending on the number of axles, the size of the engines, the level of... the type of suspension of the full mass and even the driving axle. In addition, this proposal, 12, is arranged with amendments by state language specialists. The Commission is supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U127	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U128	I call on Members to support this draft law as such. All the proposals have been examined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U129	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax law! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 55, it's against - 21, it's not. The law is passed. Draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U130	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues, See the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023. Only 115 proposals have been received. Before we start to look at these proposals, I would like to inform you that, like other draft laws, each of the proposals has been debated in the Commission. All who wanted professional answers could. Of course, it was very difficult to answer the question: why is this particular proposal not supported? Such questions will not be answered. On the whole, however, questions were raised in the form of professional assistance and answers. I must also inform you, colleagues, that I have received a letter from the Presidential Chancellery, which, on behalf of the President of Latvia, is asking (this concerns both this draft law and the next one, “On the State Budget 2021”) for the President’s remuneration not to apply the annual indexation and to maintain it in 2020... to the extent specified. Well, what? Let's go! 1. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission. This refers to the question of how much money will then be due to local governments from personal income tax. Well, but it will certainly be talked about by my colleagues, so I will not delay you any longer, but I would like to say that proposal 1 has not been supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U131	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U132	Dear colleagues, This proposal seeks to address the injustices that have been included in the draft budget for next year and in the medium-term budget, with a view to reducing the proportion of personal income tax being passed on to municipalities. In this way, the government actually reduces municipal income by about EUR 90 million. Moreover, as a result of the new amendments to social assistance, the municipality estimates that about 50 million more will be needed for social assistance... both in the form of guaranteed minimum income, housing compensation and other support measures. This means that municipalities have more functions, costs more, but money much less. Colleagues! After such amendments 77 municipalities will fall significantly, especially the municipalities of Latgale will be hit hard. We know that in Latgale, too, at the moment, during the comma crisis, there is the greatest unemployment and the greatest risk of poverty for the population, so they would need even more support from the local authorities. Colleagues! After the administrative territorial reform... In fact, during its implementation, it was promised that local authorities would have broad support programmes to make local governments not only bigger but also stronger. What we are seeing from the government - with the next year's budget doing completely the opposite: all the promises have been forgotten, and the money has not been directed more towards strengthening the regions, but is being taken away. We believe that this is wrong, it will lead to even greater segregation at the level of Latvia, people will be forced to travel to metropolis in Riga or to the first possibility – to foreign countries. Our proposal is to do quite the opposite: to restore funding to municipalities. In parallel, as you will see further... The budget table contains proposals for the establishment of a regional development programme, strengthening regions, not weakening them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U133	Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U134	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The coalition is proud of its great success: next year, on 1 July, new, strong, large, reformed municipalities will start their work. However, with this article, the Government acknowledges that it does not believe that it will. This is demonstrated by the fact that not only in 2021, but also in 2022 and 2023, the proportion of personal income tax to municipalities is reduced. To understand this step, if functions and tasks were reviewed, the new municipal law would provide for a reduction of functions for municipalities by transferring them to national level or to the future administrative regions. However, there is no such thing in these documents. What do we know clearly? Firstly, the fact that the municipalities will not have sufficient funding for at least 140 million next year. Secondly, in order to fulfil their functions, municipalities will take out loans, which will result in an even higher debt burden that will not allow full participation in NAP implementation, absorption of EU funding and quality disposal of ATRs. And, thirdly, the government, not next year, nor in 2022 and 2023... municipalities that have already been reformed do not see themselves as reliable and serious partners. And it marks one clear trend - even more centralisation of power and a decline in regions. I call for support for this and for the next proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U135	Thank you. The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U136	(I can't hear.) ... In the course of the preparation of next year's... draft law, negotiations between Latvian Municipal Union and government took place. And, I have to say, we have seen a rather clear position - haughtiness on the part of the government, where... there was no solution even for those municipalities where the drop in revenue exceeds four per cent. That would cost EUR 9 million. And yes, interestingly, in general, these talks were reduced from taking 90 million away from the municipalities to the fact that the municipalities tried to win at least 9 million. Colleagues, what you have to understand is that you actually put a serious risk to the budgetary alignment of a number of municipalities through such a step. You are proud that you will allow the municipalities to borrow more - EUR 268 million - with borrowing limits that... Not more than this year... and will not allow daily expenses, such as the remuneration of pre-school educators.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U137	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U138	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, again! This is an issue that we have talked about several times. This reduction for municipalities is a reduction in the standard of living of the countryside, the regions. But, I would like to remind you, this particular tax - personal income tax - has always been part of local governments as one of the main sources of income. It's very sad that it's simple, without any specific explanations and discussions, five percent... reduced from income tax... no longer for the benefit of municipalities. However, I would ask Members to remember... remembering, too, the forthcoming elections next year... Well, as you party representatives, you will go to municipalities, and what will you tell them if you are already in the next elected power... You are already predicting this reduction, regardless of who will be elected there?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Perhaps you will try to have coalition parties elected there as well. How do they work? These are also your colleagues - elected colleagues. Well, I really don't understand that, especially in view of this... No one is talking about this great inequality that prevails in our country. I am surprised that neither the former Minister nor the future Minister nor, more generally, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is silent on this issue. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has competence not only to regulate, control and punish; its competence is to represent the interests of local governments. Where is it when looking at the budget? It's not! Colleagues, however, support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U139	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U140	Colleagues, I, too, call for support for this proposal. Once again: a EUR 90 million reduction for municipalities in the basic budget - 110 municipalities - this will mean a budget reduction, for 77 municipalities it will mean a reduction of the basic budget by more than four percent. And, in particular, it's important... Once again and again: this reduction will be very important for Latgale municipalities. For all of this, in addition, the expenditure imposed on the municipalities by the budget... with other laws... make expenditure - it will be more than EUR 50 million. Colleagues, here is no longer a story of any new policy initiatives or implementation of development projects by municipalities; here it is about the performance of basic functions, which at least to Latgale municipalities and other municipalities, which from Riga are becoming very vulnerable. And it cannot be replaced by development money, with borrowing money. You can't create a system when the municipality borrows money to pay preschool teachers salaries! That is what the next year's budget will create. Large municipalities will also be very important... Reject... In particular, in Latgale... By rejecting completely all the additional initiatives that the municipality has ever taken, it still creates a deficit. And it cannot be replaced by some street project or some development project that our Prime Minister is talking about. The next year will be a very critical year for municipalities. In my opinion, the situation in which it is being built is not acceptable. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U141	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis. ( Pause) So Member Maris Kučinskis is not in the system right now. Let's give him a name later. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U142	Dear colleagues, When Latvia was hit by the 2009 crisis and had to submit to the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, so that, in the eyes of the Head of Government, it would be possible, thanks to this loan, to try to survive and pull Latvia out of the crisis (although this is perhaps a rather dubious decision, because, as we know, such measures were not necessary in our neighbourhood!) - Then, too... actually... municipalities were put in front of the fact, reducing this part of income, but the difference was that the Latvian Municipal Union took this step very seriously, just like now, but against... So the deal was... and in a way... These agreements were signed between several parties. And the municipalities had unfortunately (A sound breakdown.) ... introduction of this... housing tax, and it was such a comfort for the municipalities so that they could now cope with this reduction in the IIN. What awaits us following the municipal elections next year is something that can only be mentioned. Indeed, you can only mention it! So far we can see that there is no change on the issue of NIPs, but I think that the solution to the increase in municipal funds will not make ourselves look forward to. I call for this proposal to be supported and for municipalities to be protected from losses and for municipalities to be protected from imposing additional obligations. In any case... Funding should be provided for imposing additional obligations on municipalities. That's how to rob...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U143	Thank you. The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U144	Hello, dear colleagues! I would also like to call on colleagues in the coalition to support this proposal because - look at the figures! That, to be honest, is not fair... In particular - against Latgale, because the reduction in Latgale municipalities is... for many, it's 7-8 percent. If we look specifically at the figures, it's about the numbers! -, then we see that such new districts as Daugavpils novads, Ilūkste novads, which will be the region of Augšdaugava, will lose one and a half million euros; Krāslava novads will lose 1.2, Rēzekne large municipality - 2.1, Balvu novads - one and a half, Preiļu novads - one, Ludza novads - 1.1 million. And we look at these big numbers... the figures and we see that local authorities, especially now, in the year following the elections, will find it very difficult to fulfil their autonomous functions, as the cuts in the budget will, however, cut a great deal of room for local authorities to carry out their duties. I call, in particular, on Latgale Members, to vote in favour of this proposal today so that Latgale municipalities have some additional budget. So I am calling for a vote in favour of this proposal and also for the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U145	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U146	At the composition of this Saeima, I think it would be wrong to talk about violations of the European Charter of Local Authorities. I think they're not interested in anyone. This is the case for the 50 million that come in addition to the municipalities with new features which, of course, are not being followed by any funding. However, I would like to say that, in the 2009 crisis, the negotiations between the government and the local authorities - this was an agreement between the government and the local authorities - and the local authorities understood what they were going on, and that was a common understanding of how to overcome the crisis. There is also a crisis at the moment, and as Krišjānis Kariņš said yesterday on television, the biggest thing that has been in the history of Latvia, which anyone can remember. In this case, you are actually pulling this crisis out on the backs of the municipalities, not to mention them and not to keep them in the dark. And that's the worst. Even if such a proposal remains, local authorities do not explain their role in overcoming the crisis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U147	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U148	Highly honoured, I ask for speaking time to be combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U149	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, As I said, I really... All due respect to the Prime Minister, this government for this principle decision to increase medical salaries, but here, colleagues, there is also a rather fundamental and principled question: does the aim justify the funds? That is, if the aim is noble - to raise the medical reward - or really is absolutely no matter by what methods this goal is achieved. However, I call on you, my fellow Members, to think seriously about the methods by which this objective is achieved and whether you really were not able to find better methods. It is perhaps that old fashionable to think - let's assume if we want to raise the salary for the doctors, then it needs either to earn more money or to give up the state budget from what is considered less important or to find, identify what is difficult, redundant and eliminate this excess. Nothing was done here. The methods chosen by the government to achieve this noble goal are primarily to raise taxes on small businesses. We have talked about this in recent days. The second method is to finance it at the expense of the municipalities. But what's the reason for this, colleagues? I hope you will, however, agree that in a normal country... This funding for municipalities and, in general, any question of funding for municipalities - it must be based on an understanding of what a set of municipal responsibilities is, and an agreement on how much it pays the municipality...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U151	Name to the Member... I'm sorry. Keep going, you've had another minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U152	... to finance it. It is clear that municipalities do not actually have their own source of income. Local governments rely on real estate tax, where both rates and so-called cadastral values are determined directly by the government, and this percentage, which until now was 20 per cent of personal income tax. Therefore, I think colleagues, it must be absolutely clear that any adjustment can only be made if it is established that either the number of duties is falling or that the municipalities have any unexpected revenue. But duties are only growing, and nothing, absolutely nothing... There is no government side about why this funding is falling.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U153	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U154	Hello, honourable President. Please combine the times. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of me, there is such an interesting table which summarises, from 2006 to today, the breakdown of personal income tax between municipalities and the state. It has always been stressed that without municipalities the state cannot and vice versa, there must be a common understanding. This was also the case at a time of crisis, because the last drop below 80 was in 2007 - 79, and during all previous crises (even the financial crisis) all governments have always considered that municipalities with direct contact, which are actually working with the population, cannot take the base away. Now it's... I can call it a big experiment again, and to some extent I'm surprised that the municipalities... Although, of course, this time, too, is uncharacteristic, but I have such a big suspicion. I know that the municipalities in this case can be bought more or less with promises - we will give you the money of the communion crisis, we will make you investments, there will be a project. This can lead to the fact that the municipalities are not made stable, that those who live with their money do not require the state, that they are independent themselves, but that they will be constantly caught up in the role of the petitioner. It's going to get... similar to those in some countries where this distribution to municipalities is much lower than these 75 and then full of grants. I have quite a suspicion that this direction is also being pursued. I regret that there is no one who explains. I have already been watching this sitting and I am taking part in the sitting as you all are. It's about to be two weeks, and only one minister on the screen has been seen. Well, at the moment, the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development is not at all able to explain why... These are the reasons why we need to experiment with municipalities. I must join in what my colleague Janina said - I think you do not travel better to Latgale during the pre-elections, because you also know well the distribution that municipalities will suffer. Now it is a blow to the poorest municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U155	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U156	Dear colleagues, I would also like to remind you that the independence of local governments, financial independence, actually means the maturity of democracy. There are Member States in the European Union, where this maturity... own revenue in municipalities accounts for close to half of the total public revenue - specific taxes, specific revenue. Unfortunately, there is no one in Latvia. Latvia has a situation, changes every year, there is no permanence in this regard with municipalities. This is a national issue, and specifically this vote. However, I would call for nationalism and national thinking. For those who do not vote in favour, I doubt this name for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U157	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U158	Madam President, colleagues. I call for this proposal to be supported by looking at even one function carried out by municipalities. Looking ahead, both in terms of reforms and the situation of the community, municipalities will have to invest much more resources than they have done so far. That is, of course, education. First of all, additional resources will be needed to raise the salaries of pre-school teachers. It is likely that the country will not be able to do so at the moment. We are currently talking about the medium-term budget. This does not mean that solutions are only needed for the next year, on the contrary, three years ahead. And this proposal is precisely about it. The second reason why municipalities will need more resources for education is, of course, infrastructure. At this point, I am not talking about modern technologies, but about the fitting of school places according to the community's limitations, and these are not just three metres, not just the training tables located in corridors, they are probably rather space restrictions, scaffoldings and many of the things the world is already doing. There will also be a need for a different approach to the examination process, additional resources will be needed for the already voted amendments to the law on the provision of private schools... I'm calling... Combine Time... option...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U159	Time is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U160	Thank you. Thus, in order to ensure that private schools comply with the already voted amendments, a number of education-related laws will require additional funding for new teaching aids... I don't think of textbooks, but different electronic sites, because everyone will not use only one IZM site, most likely. It prevents teachers from working to implement standards and guidelines of competence. This will require additional resources to provide learning tools for learning content, new approaches, new sites and new materials. It is therefore clear that local authorities will need substantial investment to ensure this autonomous (conditional) function in education and will not make reservations that they already do this at 50-70 per cent. This will not be justified, because the government itself, by regulations and decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, will have established in law that municipalities must perform new functions without providing them with funding. Such decisions are likely to continue in the society’s situation, especially through the installation of educational institutions, including pre-schools. Likely, we can expect a preschool, or a certain metric limit, because this distance is likely to affect all of us in the near future. It should also be remembered that the preparation of five-year-olds and six-year-olds also takes place before school. This is not what ISM is talking about at this point in time and, I must say, does not think. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U161	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U162	Thank you. Three risk factors make the work of the municipality unpredictable – the pandemic, its economic collapse and administrative territorial reform. In these circumstances, not to reduce one of the largest sources of municipal income - personal income tax - is not stupid, but criminal. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U163	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U164	Hello, colleagues! This debate gives me a sense of déjà vu with last year's budget debate, when, similarly, we debated and tried to explain to the coalition, the existing power, the principle, the fundamental mistake they make with regard to medical pay, the importance of finding adequate funding for this sector. As a result, this year, this sector is on the eve of the disaster. Now we are talking the same thing about municipalities. Not just about municipalities, we are basically talking about those social programmes that will be required in the territory of Latvia and which are implemented by municipalities, as has already been mentioned here. Education, all these social assistance cases, which the municipalities will simply not have enough money... And now imagine - on that background that there are problems with health care! We can see that these challenges will not be met. Go on. There will also be problems in parallel with the economy - because of the communion crisis and because of the decisions made by the government, which will first hit the small business, the opportunities for people to earn are also being reversed. What happens next? Next comes this local government story, which will not be able to help these people. Do you, Mr Kariņš, understand what you are doing at the moment, as a coalition? You know, that's... There are not only murderers today, but also murderers of states. What you're doing now... What you are doing at the moment under the leadership of Kariņš Coalition, these murderers of states... can be cloned as a sample of how to destroy the country. That's what you're going to. Even yesterday's speech - it was a chrestomatic example of how we should not do it. How many people were brought into stress and poverty, and so many more people die of it than would die of the community now. Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported and for the coalition to turn on the brain!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U165	The name of Member Janina Yalinska for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U166	Dear colleagues, I refer to figures that relate only to 2021, but I will now refer to figures that correspond to this medium-term budgetary framework for 2022 and 2023. Daugavpils novads will lose four and a half million, Rēzeknes novads - six, Līvānu - one and a half, Daugavpils city - nine, Rezekne novads - 2,7, Balvu novads - four and a half, Preiliu - three, Ludza novads - 3,3, Kraslavas novads - 3,6. These will be the new, strong regions of Latgale, which will lose these amounts for the development of regions and not only for development, but also for the performance of autonomous functions. I call again on Latgale... elected Members from Latgale to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U167	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U168	Yes, colleagues, repeatedly calling for support for this proposal, which I believe is one of the most important proposals in this budget, I would like to remind you that, in the 2009 crisis, the government, together with the International Monetary Fund, was nevertheless half the most responsible and reached an agreement with the Latvian Municipal Union, with the provision that, if the IIN forecasts are not fulfilled, this difference will be compensated from the state budget, still trying to help local authorities if they are not able to meet the guaranteed minimum income. Will we expect something like that from Karin's government? That's probably a rhetorical question. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U169	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U170	On behalf of the Commission, despite these essential arguments, the proposal has not been supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U171	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 33, for - 49, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U172	2. - The proposal from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Identical for proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U173	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U174	Colleagues, those good things that are included in the next year's budget in the social package, in the remuneration of medical doctors, educators - they have three significant weights or negative things. One is that it is done at the expense of debt. We now have the historically highest external debt. The other is the destruction of small entrepreneurs by rapidly increasing their taxes. And thirdly, the municipalities are being disintegrated. My colleague, Mr Kazinovska, said that more funding for municipalities is a maturity of democracy. And what the government is doing right now is going the opposite way, demonstrating that it is interested in centralising power and concentrating power in its hands. What is going to happen, colleagues - money is being deducted for all municipalities at the moment, and then the obedient or beneficial bibliches will be given back in the form of separate projects or deciding whether or not to grant a loan to a local government development project. That, in my opinion, is not too sustainable. If, together with the budget law, we were also to present a recovery fund plan, where we would see a clear proposal for a regional development programme, then there could be something else to agree to or understand such a reduction in tax revenues for local authorities. This would perhaps allow municipalities to compensate for development money from their budgets, using European funds, and to channel their money to daily expenditure. But now you are simply making regions poorer. It also goes well together, unfortunately, with what the representatives of the government and coalition have said before, that neither administrative reform was meant for people (see Mr Bondara's quote... meeting with citizens) and the next year's budget is meant to make municipalities "happy and happy" and where Latgale has also been mentioned. I just quoted Mr. Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U175	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U176	Dear colleagues, I think it is clear for the moment that you all have been given that the coalition is not able to give any reason why this is happening at the expense of the municipalities. I think that if that were the case, we would have heard it. I am looking at it from the previous vote that some coalition Members from Latgale think that if they voted with abstentions, then the Latgale people will somehow be fooled and think that they were as if ready to support it or almost supported it. I think that the people of Latgale should not be treated as such fools, colleagues. But I call you, colleagues, to think about the following. Is this the objective of increasing medical salaries achieved? Yes, even though there were other roads and you have not used them. But most importantly, my fellow Members, I think one of the main reasons why you still... The government has, however, decided to comply with this law on medical wages - in order to somehow try to restore public confidence in the government and laws. But if you think you've done it, then you're very hard... This is a very serious mistake, colleagues, if you think so. Think about where trust comes from. From the fact that the government at all levels, including at municipal level, is fulfilling its promises and responsibilities. What you have done at the moment - you have withdrawn funding without changing the set of obligations laid down in the Law “On Municipalities”. Thus, in complying with one law, you have created several other regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers... obligations imposed by law that will not be fulfilled. It's trust in the state and also in the municipalities... People do not care, colleagues at national level who fail to fulfil their promises are failing to fulfil their responsibilities: the municipality or the state. That's why you're just continuing to undermine confidence in the country as such.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U177	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U178	Madam President, Colleagues! Keep talking about it... whether, with the arguments why this type of proposal should have been supported and should have been supported and possibly a review of the vote just adopted, there is another thing in education. As we know, currently the Ministry of Education and Science still finances students' holidays in the amount of 50 per cent, but basically this money is saved and used for various purposes – university study credits, technology acquisition, raising teachers' salaries, including universities. As ethically as it is, there is one question, but the other - I think it is necessary to consider both the government and the coalition Members the fact that, if money is constantly saved, then perhaps the function is not in the right hands. If, once in the debate, I suggested handing over this part-time function, which is not a direct educational function, to the Ministry of Welfare or the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, then why? If the Ministry has saved money and indicates that its money is in municipal budgets, then it should be remembered that the established regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, established laws, including in the context of the community, restrict the use of holidays, and this is not correct. Several municipalities in the spring even gave up part of public funding because it was faster, more convenient and better for pupils and pupils’ families. I call for consideration to be given to this vote in order to support municipalities, because every family feels support for their meals. Whether you live in a small district or a combined large district. I call on the coalition partners to reflect on this decision and - just as perhaps someone else - to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U179	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U180	In shaping the administrative territorial reform, we were very much in front of the committee responsible as the main reason for the success of this reform, the tables, where it was clear what the new municipal budget would be. A simple logic works. So if we put together the budgets of four municipalities, we see a bigger number, and at that point it automatically means that this municipality becomes more capable... and all the good words you committed to this administrative territorial reform... Now... And there were, of course, promises that the municipalities would be supported and that they would know something else. Even the budget includes the principle that VARAM will finance this transitional mechanism. The original scanned version quickly had to be abandoned, and the word for "co-financing" was changed, because quite simply understood how expensive this reform would actually cost. Instead of implementing this reform, local authorities are still being cut back on funding. Next year, the reform will lead to a significant increase in expenditure by local authorities, which comes in addition to all of the above. In these circumstances, I do not think that this is a national approach to dealing with municipalities in this way. That means, in principle,... It is like lying with those passes - that promised one, and after the reform of the municipalities, I would like to say that it will give such a triple blow to the population of the regions, because also the reconstruction fund... We know that most of this fund is concentrated in Riga. The regions will have nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U181	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U182	Yes, well, I am very sorry that the President of Latvia has made such a single remark to the budget, taking care only of his own PR, seeing that it goes a bit down, because the President's salary will be increased. I regret that the President of State is not concerned at all about what is being done to municipalities at the moment. But I would like to answer a rhetorical question from my colleagues: where will we go and how will our honourable coalition Members go to Latgale? I would say that Mr Bondara will probably only travel to Rezekne. He will walk around the Olympic Center and tell you that he and his colleagues have managed to build it further. We will see this in my proposal 43 or 46. - look at the table now. This proposal was not supported by the government, but supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Looks like a little bit of a fellow Member's quota. It is probably a way for Mr Bondara to be able to deal with the anger of the population by putting his supposedly hard-working proposal for the Rezekne Olympic Centre. That could be the answer to a rhetorical question. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U183	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U184	Colleagues! Despite the fact that it was said that administrative territorial reform would make municipalities stronger, VARAM itself, in its analysis, showed that even after the unification of municipalities in the next 10 years, the population in the regions would fall significantly. What you are doing with such a proposal - reducing the funding for municipalities - will speed up this process even more, because the funding is being reduced to such an extent that for one municipality, for example, it is slightly higher than their annual social assistance budget. One municipality thinks if it will be able to support the local police next year. Many municipalities will be forced to demolish their reserves if at all they have some reserves. I understand, colleagues, that you count on the fact that half of the elite lives in Riga, but Latvia is not just Riga. If there is no balanced regional development, then there will also be no national development. I call for these mistakes to be considered and for them to be corrected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U185	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U186	Dear colleagues, Well, I hope you could... I invite you to understand that we... At least since we have had those new times in politics, since perhaps 2010, 2011, we have actually been living in a vicious circle where the main difference within the coalition is that there are ruling coalitions with the ZZS, and there are ruling coalitions without the ZZS. That's one big difference. If there are no ZZS in the coalition, then the cases take place at the expense of the municipalities, then the municipalities have been withdrawn. If the coalition is with the ZZS, then the opposite is happening: all the municipalities are compensated, additional funding is granted. But I call you, fellow Members, to realize that the big one is the big one! - We're then standing on the spot. And then what you are doing today is causing the insult that will then demand compensation, and what you think is a step forward will then follow your...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U187	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U188	Dear colleagues, I would like to say once again that the 'no' vote on municipal support actually shows the bankruptcy of this proportional electoral system, because... Well, what can it be? Is that so? In fact, most Members of the Saeima have been elected from the regions but, contrary to their conscience, they vote against regional aid, against the support of local governments. It shows once again that we will not stay anywhere; unfortunately, we will have to look at what model we could have at the Saeima in the near future... provide the Saeima for work. Apparently, the mixed. Imagine 50 Members elected from specific areas. And each Member shall give a specific answer to his or her district voters and to all voters for each vote. A completely different situation! The political parties will then be forced to count very heavily on this representation from the regions, from the regions. There is no other way - one year from year to year is trading like this. The parties are inoperable; they do not have their own institutes that make the proposals. There are individual Members, but the individual Members' proposals are, however, not very much heard and supported. The main officials of the Ministry of Finance are making a budget, and the coalition, the parties, as there are no very reasoned proposals, nothing remains to support this offer. That can't go on! The country will die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U189	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U190	Colleagues! It should be... If the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development is present at this meeting... Perhaps a former Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development can apply for a debate and explain how the municipalities will then be compensated, because, as I mentioned at the end of the previous speech, a model of Riga Area development is now presented in various fora, which in essence means that the money will be concentrated mainly in the Riga Area, as has been the case so far. And those municipalities that lose the most in the budget will also benefit least from this development fund. However, I would call for the principle of subsidiarity to be remembered, and yet, at the moment, public administration is organised in such a way that it is more effective to hand over local authority, elected authority, various functions, with funding. We are now moving in the opposite direction. Therefore, it would also be good, from the point of view of the Constitution, if someone tried to explain what is the reason why we are going in the opposite direction rather than the constitutional definition.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U191	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U192	Redistributed taxes are not big art and do not require high intelligence or brain effort from government. It is much more difficult to find places where we could really look for funds by giving up unnecessary spending, say, such as the maintenance of unnecessarily large bureaucratic apparatus or the increase in the salary of members of the government and the Prime Minister, and so on. In this case, tax reallocation not only impairs the predictability of municipal work, but also the work of local authorities themselves. I would therefore call, however, for support for the proposal and for the existing ratio to be maintained, because it creates stability, some stability, in our changing circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U193	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U194	Colleagues! Yes, I see that the Parliamentary Secretary of the VARAM has applied for, and I will therefore take the opportunity to also hope that I will receive an answer to a question that may have appeared somewhere in the context of the budgetary debate, but which has not been heard openly. How many municipalities will it be possible to sustain themselves from the new municipalities, thus those created by the administrative territorial reform? As we know, this number is currently completely the opposite of what would be desirable for the country's development. One. And the other. Will the newly created large municipalities also be able to repay the attached municipal loans? As is well known, such loans are also carried out in the field of education and not just in the area of kindergartens. Although there is support from the Structural Funds, these things are happening. My question is: will cross-accounting save large, strong municipalities in the new regional reform and be able to repay or repay educational loans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U195	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U196	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, colleagues! Thank you to your colleagues for this debate. I would like to point out a number of aspects in this regard. First of all, the next year's budget, as has already been said, provides for relatively large funds for municipalities in the form of loans - more than 250 million euros to realise various types of investment projects: road infrastructure adjustment, kindergarten construction, renovation, renovation of educational institutions and other types of investment projects that can contribute to and develop life in the municipality. This is particularly important from the point of view of ensuring the provision of scheduled services in the new administrative areas and laying good foundations for the successful development and work of local authorities in the future. I will also ask you to combine the two times of the debate. What remains to be mentioned in this context. The assessment of the Bank of Latvia has been made, which quite clearly shows that the budget of local governments will not only increase objectively, but will also increase the possibility to save up to €180 million each year through reforms, reforms and reforms. It is at the size of municipalities, with population ranging from 20 to 25 thousand. As a result of this reform, the average population in municipalities will be higher, and therefore more savings are expected in municipal budget resources, which the municipalities will be able to invest accordingly in improving the quality of services, attracting investment and creating a good business environment. So this year (A sound break.) ... unite the times of the debate. Yes, so it is important to understand that, in making these changes, we will also give local authorities a clear opportunity to assess where we are currently spending less, where we can save money to make more sense. By comparison, in the neighbouring countries, Estonia, the total budget distribution of municipalities is 50 per cent in favour of municipalities, 50 per cent in favour of the state. In general, I would like to point out to my colleagues - use true information, however! Ms. Dana Reizniece-Ozola mentioned that the VARAM documents contained inaccurate forecasts of depopulation. Here I would like to point out that these forecasts, which had been drawn up by the “Jaun farm”, were based on the assumption that nothing would be changed, but the Saeima has made this historic decision: administrative territorial reform...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U197	Thank you, thank you. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U198	Thank you to Mr Plesh, I think no one will be here at all, but of course you are watching now with a strong interest as a potential future minister. What you said was that two things locked me up. That offer is that we're taking money off you, but let's let you borrow more. Well, try to say that, I don't know, my friends, those who work... those restaurants that cannot work at the moment, that they will be able to go out to borrow. Well, it's not... Of course, I have also mentioned those places and my suspicion that it should accompany and recover more obedience, especially now that there will be fewer municipalities - that this is obviously the strategy that is being incorporated into the top. Yes, there are almost 50 in Estonia, maybe now there are 50 out of the distribution of this budget. At the same time, they have both investment programmes and a separate fund that is already clearly understood. So that the Estonian model also needs to be fully learned! Estonian municipalities themselves envy Latvia for its stability, which was given by 80 percent... which was subject to one hundred percent real estate tax. We must go to greater independence so that the municipalities are not dependent. Well, who likes if someone goes to pray or if someone goes with potato bags to the Ministry... Well, we don't need such a time. Therefore, it seems to me that this is a deviation from the normal course, as a developed country should work together with the state authorities of the municipality, without hindering each other, just helping with a stable financial base, which is currently under way... It's dead.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U199	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U200	Yes, well, I am very sorry that our coalition is so rarely present in the debate. If it were to speak more in the debate, the public would have the opportunity to see with what competence our country is governed by, that is to say, what Mr Ples said - it is once again a chrestomatic example of government's isolation from reality, from its understanding of the order of things. What was then said? I will explain it in simple terms. So it's nothing that you won't have money for social programmes, we'll give you money for development, you'll be able to build something else there. Mr Ples, either you did not really qualify as a minister, or you tried to deceive the entire society at the moment. Because I can't believe that you don't know that this money (which you're offering to replace... According to mathematics... “ Yes, you won’t be there, and we won’t give it, but we’ll give you another money instead... You will not be able to use social programs, you will not be able to help people. This money is really only aimed at development. By analogy, what you now say: “Well, nothing that you will not have anything to eat, but we will buy you a new stick! Rejoice at how good we are!” That's what you're offering right now, and don't try to deceive the public! This money, which you talked about so beautifully, will not be used for those programmes, for the autonomous functions of the municipality that they should perform and for which they will not have the money. Because this speech was a chrestomatic example of government failure, incompetentness and lenientness. I call on one more coalition Members to apply for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U201	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U202	Dear colleagues, However, I would like to say something specifically about the situation with loans from municipalities. Well, what's the situation? Well, how can their process be implemented in local governments at all? There are procedures for tenders which will not be altered. I suggest you change. It will not be changed. As a result of the competition, a municipality will still find some object and will have to borrow. But the loan must be repaid, and it must be repaid from the budget. And if the budget is cut? I am sorry, it is not a positive argument that the municipalities will now be very good, let us say, live if there is a chance to borrow. These have also been opportunities so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U203	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U204	Yeah. I remember that there was a situation where Puce lied and got away from the minister, my supporters from Bauska wrote that Puce had arrived in Bauska and said something in the corner of the street to Mr Ples. But I guess I will not have told Mr Pleis how the municipalities should be supported. In my opinion, Mr Plesh's speech that was being heard today contained enough lies. Either there is a second option: the Puce will have taught it in Bauska on that dark evening how society should lie. So I agree with other colleagues and call on Mr Pleis not to lie to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U205	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U206	Well, colleagues, after Mr. Pleis has just destroyed small entrepreneurs, then there's probably nothing to expect. I would like to say to Mr Zarins that in fact you are not accurate. What Mr. Pleis says, what the coalition says to municipalities is not that “you don’t have anything to eat, we will buy you slips” – no. ‘ You have nothing to eat, but you have a unique opportunity to borrow to buy a new sticky, nothing else - a new sticky.” That should be translated into the work of our dear coalition. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U207	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U208	Dear colleagues, In 2009, when the administrative territorial reform was carried out, every parish, that is, each municipality was... Each parish was financed with 200 thousand lats or 284 thousand euros. Having joined 19 parishes in Daugavpils municipality, it amounted to 5.4 million. At the last meeting of the Latgale Sub-Commission, representatives of VARAM informed that there will be an opportunity to borrow, the Structural Funds will be, but, as colleagues have already said, the loan - it is not the funds needed for everyday life. That borrowing can also be made for specific purposes... not for every autonomous function the municipality can borrow today... borrowing can only be made for specific purposes. By merging municipalities, several districts, there is a question about the credit portfolio – what credit portfolio will be for each municipality, and has not the ceiling for this credit portfolio been reached yet? The regions will, of course, suffer the most. Large cities are also suffering, but regions and municipalities will be most burdened. No matter how large we create them, these municipalities will lack funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U209	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U210	Yes, I would like, my fellow Members, to point out to Julia Stepanenko that talking about the stick is not even correct. In this respect, this proposal, and what will happen with the reduction, is much more serious, because the municipalities will have to go to borrow to cover the payment of the guaranteed minimum subsistence that the state says and the housing allowance. I'm ready to make sure that all these costs are not Favourable... not mainly to municipalities of Riga, Pierīga and even large cities. The costs that will not be borne anymore, where you will have to come from your budget... Well, then go really borrow so that benefits are paid. To that absurdity, we're still going to get there. Of course, if there is no good oncule program in return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U211	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U212	Yeah, thank you. Why I object to the redistribution of the proportion of personal income tax between state and municipal budgets - because it is unfair and unbiased and is not based on sufficiently objective data. We see that the territorial administrative reform was based and carried out with the aim of centralising the municipalities. In centralisation, very many municipalities also took over debts. No one has said formally at this point what is the total debt burden in the newly created regions and municipalities in the counties. This poses an additional risk to financial stability and the development of municipalities. The next moment is that if we centralise the municipalities, then we should also ensure their stability and financial independence, but this proposal, which is now being implemented by the government with the aim of ensuring social programmes in the area of health and education, at the same time endangers the stability and independence of the municipalities. It is much more difficult and difficult to tell fairy tales and spread biased information at municipal level than, let's say, from the Parliamentary Tribunal. Unfortunately, by weakening the municipalities and making them dependent, we will not achieve confidence in the power, including the power of the municipality, because much will depend on the ability of local government leaders to reach out to parliamentary coalition parties and representatives to provide additional funding to these municipalities only. As a result, a subjective factor will be triggered, which will once again weaken several municipalities and enable them to manipulate only individual and closer municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U213	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U214	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I would also like to engage in a discussion which, on the one hand, is about stability, but in my view, more about Latvia's future - whether we see Latvia's future with a development perspective or talk only about survival - about providing services, about providing an educational function. Whether we are talking only about these things or, yet, we are also trying to think about the fact that municipalities must be the centres (and here I am talking mainly about those municipalities that are located in the regions) where businesses are developing primarily. Mr Pliese mentioned this in his speech, and I think that is why many Members have also reflected it, but look at it! We see, however, that all the conditions that have been created in our country at the moment are designed so that the large industry flows away from those places where the land is expensive and where the workforce is expensive. And that's not gonna be... rather than being unscrupulous, it makes a targeted contribution to the development of the manufacturing industry in the regions. But if it is to develop successfully, it also requires an investment function for municipalities, an investment opportunity for municipalities. Such a budget, which provides for a new reallocation 75:25, in my view, does not guarantee it. As colleagues said earlier, 80: 20 distributions, to which we were accustomed, were something that allowed us to predict and also allowed those municipalities that were working purposefully to invest. I call for this proposal to be supported. Unfortunately, this has already been voted on, but in any case I think it needs to be reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U215	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U216	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. The debate was also wide-ranging within the Commission, so that... I understand that this proposal cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U217	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U218	3. - The Cabinet's proposal. It concerns the use of Latvijas Loto and the state capital and the remuneration for the use of that state capital. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U219	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U220	Yes, colleagues, when talking about “Latvijas Loto”, I think that these contributions to the budget could also have been, if possible, larger so that we could less... less funding from local authorities at present. And here I would like to explain. What has been said by Mr Pleis on the previous proposal regarding the reduction in the municipal budget is that Latvijas Banka has estimated something. I'd like to fix it. Latvijas Banka has not even estimated. The Bank of Latvia had prepared a discussion material, which is a discussion material, the initial estimate of which was between 20 and the millions you named. But when we saw these materials at the commission meeting, we came to the news... We looked at its main municipal functions. And this theory is not in line with practice, because in practice very many sections of the municipality where some kind of savings could arise had already been fulfilled. That's about the school network. There are very few cases where there is still something else in the school network that needs to be done after the reform at all. Most school networks will remain the same, so expenditure will remain the same. Now it's just coming. Therefore, the above-mentioned argument concerning these significant savings is irrelevant. And I would like to emphasise again and again that it is about basic expenditure. If the budget for 10 municipalities is increasing at the moment, these 10 will also be able to start construction of kindergartens very successfully, which... I think that municipalities in Latgale will hardly be able to start such kindergarten constructions at all. But the problem is that building this kindergarten is one thing, the other is for teachers to pay salaries. And salaries from loans can't be paid. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U221	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U222	(Sound rupture) ... on behalf of the Committee, I would like to say that proposal 3 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U223	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U224	Colleagues, 4. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U225	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U226	Hello, colleagues! I would like to remind you a little about perhaps forgotten things every day that malignant tumors are really the second most common cause of death for Latvian citizens behind cardiovascular diseases. About six thousand people die of cancer every year in Latvia. That's almost every fifth... more than one in four of the dead have died of the malignant tumor. As well as the temporary loss of life years, in 2018, for example, we have lost 14 834 preliminary years of life. So there are dead people who will no longer be able to work, help and grow up for Latvia. In the case of oncological diseases, the three most important stages are. The first is early diagnosis - to detect it as soon as possible. In Latvia, this is not always the case, and we find quite a lot of delayed cases. The second is accurate diagnostics that help to treat the tumour accurately, purposefully and effectively. And, of course, the third - availability of appropriate medicines - is very important and very lacking in Latvia. We are far behind in terms of access to effective medicines for our neighbours. This, of course, directly reduces the chance for survival, for the golden measure for patients with oncology, how many years are still possible for them to live well. This proposal is therefore in addition to our proposals for an increase in excise duty on tobacco products - both conventional cigarettes and hot tobacco - provided that the Ministry of Finance, when calculating the expected impact, has predicted that, in addition to what has already been added to the budget figures at present, there would probably be an additional amount, possibly in their calculations, of 1.8 million funding for the oncology area. To keep this funding focused every quarter...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U227	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U228	Dear colleagues, There are two things here. First of all, I would like to remind you that the coalition Members have supported the imposition of the highest excise duty on tobacco in particular, which is likely to be... and which has already been recognised at least by the regulator of the United States... is a less harmful alternative. At least in the US, it can be advertised as a less harmful alternative to traditional tobacco. If it is recognised by the World Health Organisation after some time, and I think it could happen... Well, for example, I would not be surprised that this will happen shortly after the United States renews its membership of this organisation and resumes to pay membership fees as well. So, when it is recognised - I think it is not or, but when it is recognised - by the World Health Organisation, you, fellow Members, will understand that you have prevented a less harmful product from being taken over by this proposal and, as a result, have contributed to an increase in the number of oncological patients. Because it's so simple. That's a direct conclusion, colleagues. Secondly, colleagues, you have supported - and that is, of course, a complete coincidence - a proposal that was one of a player in the sector who so charged prices to its direct competitor. But that is, of course, a coincidence. And then, colleagues, you have a proposal - this proposal. Read it! It gives the Minister of Finance the right to grant... That's funny, colleagues! What is it about the proposal now? Our finance minister has the right, anyway, to do anything in our country.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U229	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U230	Madam President, Colleagues! Yes, of course, the proposal, both because it concerns oncology issues and because it needs to be funded somewhere, is to be supported. But at the same time, it would probably be useful if one of the Ministry of Health, including the Parliamentary Secretary, explained how these issues are to be addressed in the future by establishing a stable programme with a stable increasing funding in the state budget. Why? It is no secret that there is a relevant parliamentary working group and we have already received information that cancer diagnosis, prevention and treatment have been identified as a priority for the European Union's relevant sector. And we are currently debating the medium-term budget. We are not debating one year's budget, but we are talking about a medium-term budget, which should, in practice and in fact, highlight the trends that the public budget will have in the debate after one year. However, I would like to hear the answers that are planned for funding to be covered in the form of a stable national programme. This would provide a guarantee that people (and we know statistics in oncology) would also have a guarantee in Latvia, not only about the green and orange corridor, not only about the purchase of medicines, but would have a guarantee that the Latvian public health sector pays attention to this problem not only in the context of the community, but with the stable support of public funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U231	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U232	Hello, dear colleagues! Continuing on from Evija Papules, I fully agree with her that the Ministry of Health lacks a programme in which we could all see... that there should be a serious increase annually in the amount of the medicinal product to be compensated. We all received letters from the Ministry of Health that the compensation system of 12 million is already lacking. By supporting this proposal, we will only partially compensate for their lack, but not pro-... ( The sound is broken.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U233	Mr. Orlov, one moment! There are some technical problems. We will continue with your debate after the break. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on a break. Please all leave the e-system after registration and restart your computers! Restart, please, computers after registration! So the registration of Members. Once again, colleagues, please leave the e-Saeima after a break and restart the computers! Interruption until 13.30 a.m. Let us continue with Member Orlov's debate. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U234	Dear colleagues, We keep sitting after the break. See further draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023. We are continuing the debate on proposal 4, tabled by Members Indricsone, Zālīte-Gross, Dūritis, Iksten, Skride, Dzintars, Čakša and Teirumnieks. Member Vitaly Orlov had applied. I ask Member Vitaly Orlov to apply again for a debate. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U235	Dear colleagues, Returning to proposal 4. Fraction SaskaņA supported this proposal, despite the fact that I personally, like Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, did not like the source from which the money will be taken. But continuing with my colleague Evija Papule, I also believe that the Ministry of Health does not have a programme. Additional funding is needed to increase annually the amount required in the list of medicinal products eligible for reimbursement. I believe that the treatment should be similar to the treatment of medical wages - this simply needs to be recorded in the law, and the Ministry of Health is doing so. I call for this proposal to be supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U236	The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U237	Yes, hello, honourable Members! I'll tell you a little later about the onkopollan, but it's all from the beginning. For a long, long time, governments have been not on the agenda as a priority for health or education. And now, in the days of the community, this negligence is all the brighter lit up. Of course, correcting these sectors during one term is impossible, but the beginning is still encouraging. I'm talking about wages, I'm talking about medical wages. And I am also talking about setting up a group of Members in support here in the Saeima - a group of Members in support of patients with oncology. As a result of this cooperation - industry and group of Members - it has been agreed that an oncology plan will become. Yes, it is in the very early stages, but this oncology plan will become. Why is this important? This is important because, at a time when the European Commission has prioritised the fight against cancer in 2021-2027, there is a cancer plan at the final stage and we have to come up with our national proposals that we are doing with this sector. I believe that the group of Members... and thank you to all those who work in this group... continue to work. Immediately after the budget, I will call on everyone to meet to work on an oncology plan with the industry, to encourage the Ministry of Health, to ask how we can help. Without this oncology plan and funding, no development is possible. I am asking for support for this proposal, because this is a small part of the domestic work that we have to do in Latvia so that we can at all fair access to European funding. Thank you. Support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U238	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U239	Yes, proposal 4 has been supported by the Commission. I also call on you fellow Members to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U241	Proposal No 5 - the proposal of Members Kučinska, Reizniece-Ozola and Bergmanis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U242	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U243	Colleagues! Thank you to the government, which, however, corrected this error to second reading, and by changing different... some of these legal details, but the next proposal is also supported. But a little bit of history looking... We're like... Quite a number of commission leaders and, I think, officials also received a very worrying letter from the Latvian State Radio and Television Centre about the fact that funds for e-signature have simply been forgotten. When we started... When I began to study why it has arisen, then, of course, when talking about many millions, such stuff may suddenly be forgotten, but salt was something that in public administration is probably everywhere as a disease - one minister says that it is the other minister, the other minister says that it is the first minister. As a result, a good start has been made on the development of an e-signature, and at the same time, it has become completely like a... Well, it's impossible not to continue with it. And yet even at the source of funding, it was simply left out. This funding is also not a pure budget; it is a dividend. If someone does not know, then the funding of the Latvian State Radio and Television Centre is not directly from their services, but it is the dividends of the LMT, which now gives them the opportunity to operate with their own profit. Then my wish, however, is, of course, not to vote... support this next... is accurate. But don't forget these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U244	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U245	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that proposal 5 is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U246	Members want a vote. Please call me! Let us vote on proposal 5 by Members Kučinskis, Reizniece-Ozola and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 49, for - 2. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U247	6. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U248	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U249	7. - The Cabinet's proposal. In the office... Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U250	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U251	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U252	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U253	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U254	Members are in favour. ( Internouncing call.) I don't show up. And? Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U255	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U256	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U257	11. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U258	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U259	Thank you. 12. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U260	One second. I'm asked...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U261	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U262	I'm sorry, Mr Bondar. Member Jūlija Stepanenko has asked for a debate on the procedure. Please enable the procedure section. Please apply for Members Julia Stepanenko. The name is Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U263	Thank you, colleagues. It's very short. I just wanted to say that I was unable to request a vote for one moment, now everything is fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U264	Thank you. We shall continue to see the proposal. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Member Mārtiņš Bondars. Proposal No 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U265	Oh, show me now. Proposal No 12 - The proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. And supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U266	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U267	13. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U268	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U269	Yes, colleagues! If I see correctly, and Mr Bondara could perhaps fix me if I am wrong, because as rapporteur he could probably also tell more about the proposals, then this proposal could be linked to the President of Latvia's salary, which states that the President of Latvia's salary should be equivalent... raise the equivalent of the Prime Minister's salary. I very much ask Mr Bondara to explain to the Members of the Saeima what this proposal is about, and if I am wrong, then also to indicate exactly what this error is. If I see correctly, then the 13th proposal in the table could be this. I'm very sorry if I've been jumped. It was 14. But please state what these proposals are about, so that we can also follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U270	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U271	Yes, hello, colleagues! Listen, in my opinion, the Members of the Saeima - neither the opposition nor the position Members - are not cyborgs, and I would like to understand not only what is... There is now proposal 13. Mr Bondara, please be so kind, tell me about the proposals that they are about. A press conference with Mr. Kariņš, Mr. Levite and Mrs. Mūrniece is currently taking place. and tells about new restrictive measures. And in parallel, we're here now... How many million are there this proposal? So 1.5 million euros. In parallel, we run here quickly with the budget ahead somewhere. We couldn't, please, get a little slow down? To understand where we are going, what the main state officials say about the community pandemic in Latvia. What's going on? I do not understand how you, Members, can now vote in favour of a proposal when it comes to the present. The Prime Minister, the President and the Speaker of the Saeima speak about new restrictions. What a budget now! Why can't we get a little light? We had a coalition meeting in 40 minutes, where some kind of change will also be made... and understand where this ship is currently heading. I do not understand how you can now simply vote like voting machines! I cannot associate myself in this way with such a voting machine. I'd ask... We made a break, or. What happens if we're two hours now... ( The sound is broken.) Pause.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U272	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U273	Yes, my colleagues, I completely join in what Artus Kaimiņš has just said. Because, above all, it is an absolute disrespect for Parliament. When Parliament looks at the budget, the three more years' budgetary framework, the Cabinet of Ministers is debating new restrictions. First of all, in this way, the parliamentarians are completely excluded from the flow of information, and they have no opportunity then to explain clearly and clearly to their constituents what is happening in the country. Moreover, all members of the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Prime Minister, must follow our discussions closely. How will he give his final speech today? Will this not be the mountain of non-professionalism? How could one judge something about how Parliament voted on next year's budget without listening to the debate? Something is wrong in our country, something that has already reached enormous proportions. I will also ask you to initiate a break at the Saeima sitting, because it is absolutely unacceptable, not from any point of view. Public administration - with a minus sign. A war has been announced for democracy and common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U274	Mrs Ločmele, this is a question of procedure. The name to Member Artus Neimins for the second time. If about the procedure, please apply for the procedure!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U275	I am also in favour of the proposal, however, because I have to vote on 112 proposals in this bill, 113, and also in the next one. But it is true that Regina has just said that the Prime Minister is not here at this budget sitting, too, and I have seen only Far Linkait who is speaking here. In my opinion, this is completely wrong practice. Although I have to improve Regina's fact that no decisions are made at the moment in the Cabinet of Ministers, this will happen tomorrow, but whether we have to have the leading position as a people-elected in the course of what is happening so that we can respond to our fellow people and the people who have elected us about what is happening to the community and what Karin, Mūrniece and Levit are talking about on one screen at this parallel time. I think that is also one of the most important drivers. Ministers must, of course, also be present on this live broadcast.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U276	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U277	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, We are moving away from what the Saeima has to do at an extraordinary sitting - the budget, the budget framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023. It's a panic to make it that senior officials are leaving the press conference... If there are such fears that something will be missed - not for nothing so called a press conference - the media will also say in the referendums. Mr. Neighbours has also rightly said that the government sitting is tomorrow, nothing is now being adopted at the moment. Returning to the 13th proposal, also in response to the call from the Presidential Chancellery, I would be invited not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U278	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U279	Yes, colleagues! I do not understand, however, the stress that we are experiencing at the moment because there are no government ministers - they were not all over last week. One appeared somewhere to us, however, that is good too. But, in my opinion, the focus is very lost from the fact that this is, however, a parliament and the government is only accountable for the decisions of the parliament, but the decisions are made by the Members, and there are Commission leaders, a whole series, two just spoken, are also responsible... responsible... the draft law rapporteur, Mr Bondara, who is also the head of the commission - they should then also speak more actively at the moment, as well as any other Member who votes in favour of one or the other proposal. Otherwise, you recognise that you are voting for an incomprehensible budget. Well, I can't really support such an approach, because the responsibility that's been here all the time... The attempt is now being made to place their responsibility on the government. In my opinion, it is not the responsibility of the government, it is the responsibility of the political parties and the coalition Members who support all of this - clearly. And there is no need to try to make something of an end from the fact that there are no ministers here. If ministers were to be, the main responsibility is the same and remains with the Members of the Saeima, who also have this entire budget... during the last week, he was very silent, and no one told me anything, did not defend his ministers or the policy that was voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U280	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U281	Hello! From the start of the next week, we are looking again at the budget. Given that we will probably not be waiting for those responsible for finance, I allowed a table of proposals to be put on the table and, accordingly, there for the explanations for this heading. In particular, we are currently debating proposal 13, and here, with clarification, it is written that it is a technical clarification in accordance with the requirements of the legislation. Thus, as regards the distribution of municipal and public revenues according to the pre-voting proportion and the proportion... It is therefore necessary to place this fiscal impact on the market. So this is a technical proposal, a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers, and I call for this support. For other proposals, we will be debating when the round comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U282	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U283	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that indeed 13 is a technical proposal that stems from its situation that we have set the proportion for the state 75, for local authorities 25 out of personal income tax. And we just... or the Cabinet simply clarifies in the light of current forecasts of personal income tax, so let us say, income. I also call on Members to support it, just as it was supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U284	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -62, for -11, for -1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U285	So 14. - also a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. In essence, yes, it shows how the funding is then distributed to perform general public functions. This proposal is supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U286	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U287	Good afternoon! So proposal 14, with a little more detailed explanation, would be... funding necessary to increase the monthly salary of the President of Latvia and, consequently, representation expenses, as well as the pension costs of persons who have taken up the office of the President of Latvia (and thus former presidents) in 2021. In this case, I am left to refer only to the letter received on 20 November this year by the Commission for Budget and Finance (tax) from the Presidential Chancellery, where the Head of the Presidential Chancellery, Mr Teikmanis, refers to draft budgetary laws that dictate how the budget is drafted, including the annual request for money by the President, which is also provided in the budget.... On behalf of the President, Mr Teikmanis has proposed not to apply the annual indexation to the remuneration of the President of Latvia in 2021 and to keep it to the level set in 2020. Well, in this regard... for the sake of good order and... respectful of the request made by the President of Latvia, which I believe is generally a welcome action and such a lack of urgency to send such a letter to the Saeima, and also considering that the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) apparently failed to convene a commission before the examination of the budget and to decide on this proposal for technical reasons, I call for this proposal, supported by the Commission, to be rejected, however, at the request of the President of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U288	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U289	Yes, colleagues, I also call for a vote against this proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to increase the salary of the President of Latvia and against the next proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to increase representation expenses for the President of Latvia. I have to say, the President of Latvia has failed, because his salary increases were the subject of a second-reading proposal from the government. But at first reading, I remind you, my fellow Members, once again, that EUR 68 871 has been incorporated into the increase in the remuneration and representation costs of the Prime Minister, Ministers and Parliamentary Secretaries. Even if the President of Latvia now seems to have admitted the mistake and realise that solidarity with society must be demonstrated, then the other heads of government do not knock with the ear, at least for the time being. Until recently, the Prime Minister proudly said that he was not going to change anything because, see, the salaries of doctors and educators have also grown. Colleagues, I am afraid to even imagine what statistics will be on the dynamics of the third and fourth quarters of this year's change, but it is clear at the beginning of the year that it is extremely beneficial to work in the public sector during the crisis too. If the second quarter of the private sector still showed a slight increase of 0.7 percent, I think there will now be a very bad situation, but at that time the public administration, or public sector, lived almost like kidney in fat. The salary increased by four percent in the second quarter. And we see that next year's budget does not reduce the remuneration of officials, while in the private sector, very many groups of people are at all prevented from working and earning a living. The 200 euro and even more growth for government leaders is as much as a whole month of family life in the spring - with a cut-off allowance.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U290	Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U291	Hello, colleagues! The remuneration of public officials shall be interconnected. It's a system. Traveling wages for one person, getting up for another. By freezing one, there is a domino effect on many. Although politically seem good and many like the words “Stop with officials’ salaries!” I nevertheless call on Members to have a system and a long-term view. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and They are moving up and down in the levels of average sectoral wages, up and down in our country's economy. By disconnecting from this system, by excluding individual officials from the common system, we risk non-developing wage levels over time, making public administration a place where industry professionals will not want to and will not be able to afford to work. In the long term, this is detrimental to national capacity and the quality of national decisions. That is why, a year ago, I did not support the freezing of Members' salaries, because it decoupled our wages not only from the rise in the country's economy, but also from the fall. Therefore, I very much await that the reform of the remuneration system developed by the Cabinet of Ministers will also come to the Saeima, in the hope that it will ensure the competitiveness of the public administration today and in the future labour market. In particular, this proposal 14, provides for additional budget resources to raise the salaries and representation expenses of the President of Latvia. The President of Latvia does not want this rise in salary. I am convinced that the President of State, as a lawyer, is well aware that such amendments, which can have systemic consequences, must be discussed carefully and in a timely manner. Unfortunately, the letter was received after the Commission had already decided. This thorough and timely discussion has remained. That is why I will be voting with the Commission today. This does not rule out the possibility for the Saeima to carefully evaluate the President's proposal in the future and assess how it affects the remuneration system as a whole. But this assessment has not yet taken place. I therefore call for the Commission's views to be supported and for the Commission to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U292	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U293	Hello, colleagues! I, in turn, call on the President of Latvia to respect the letter from the Saeima to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, in which he asks the President of Latvia to refrain from applying the annual indexation to the remuneration and representation expenses and to keep them to the level set in 2020. As a result, our group will not support 14. - The proposal submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the next government... 15. proposal, which provides for an increase in representation expenses for the members of the Cabinet of Ministers. But as regards the indexation of the remuneration of ministers and parliamentary secretaries, we in the Youth Alliance believe that in 2021 this increase should also be frozen for them. The Saeima can resolve this by means of a separate bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U294	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U295	I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U296	Please, your time is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U297	Dear colleagues, Politics researcher Iveta Kažoka once said that Latvian society is sometimes prepared to pay for public administration as if it were paying for the zaporoze (it was in Soviet times, such a very bad machine), but expects services and the quality of public administration as from Ferrari. In my opinion, the current call not to raise representation expenses for the Presidential Chancellery has a domino effect on further calls to freeze wage ministers, then heads of state administration, then other high officials. We need to be aware that this is a bad practice, because it is already quite difficult to attract qualified people to heads of public authorities, because they are very well aware that in the private sector, managers' salaries are much higher. We should see that our policy does not look like it at the end of the day... I'm about to translate that concept right away... it reads English - race to the bottom, and in Latvian it could be translated so: “the race of lowering standards”. In our search for popularity, we compete to lower standards. I think that Latvian society deserves public administration, which at least meets Volvo or Volkswagen quality. I call on you to vote with the Commission and not to support the call to reduce or raise representation costs... Also because in Latvia, unfortunately, these representation expenses - for example, in the case of ministers - are just one way of... an attempt was ever made to raise ministers' salaries slightly, because the call simply to raise salaries would be politically unpopular. In this way, we can come to the point that only those who really lack competence will work in political positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U298	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U299	Hello, dear colleagues! Resurrection! As a senior official of our country, the President of Latvia has shown solidarity with the situation that is currently in the country. I must agree, however, that this domino effect is linked to a uniform system of remuneration, but we can also change this later on, leaving the situation in the country now affected by the Communion epidemic. There's a saying, "Dzir's in the measurement." If we do, rephrase it, look at what is happening, then... Really... Now there is an epidemiological crisis, and it should not, of course, be described as a plague, but... However... This is particularly due to this unpredictable situation that has entered our country. Let us not forget, colleagues, that wages are paid, so we are also paid, those businessmen who pay taxes! And so that we do not have direct public administration, however, the optimisation of public administration at present, in the days of the community, should be reviewed and perhaps reduced. I would like to say that we will follow what our President of Latvia has asked. In this case, the President of Latvia has asked not to increase these expenses. I think that is right. And if it is linked to the common system, we can also review it over time. Colleagues, I call for this proposal not to be supported and for solidarity with the people, who are also not easy at the moment, especially in certain sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U300	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U301	Dear colleagues, Solidarity with the people could not be called this here... Freezing of increases. It is not a real solidarity with the people, because, in fact, as we see, real hypocrisy is triumphing in this debate, because we are already... this is already the sixth day when we are looking at the state budget, a lot has already been destroyed, and only now, when we have come to the point of some Members, is it perhaps the most important question - whether or not to add to the President of Latvia and on which side to do so - has only come out now... so many Members of the Saeima from a coalition who, with pre-arranged speeches, tell us how the public administration's salaries should be handled correctly. Colleagues! The most hypocrisy I think we see today, now that we decide to raise, raise or freeze the President of Latvia's salary. These people who speak say that we have to listen to the President or that we do not have to listen to the President... most of them... I really do not want to say this for everyone, but I say that most of them were in no way interested in thinking at all about what their votes do to small businesses, in no way thinking about what they do, such as decoupling from minimum wages... removal of several benefits from the minimum wage. It doesn't bother them. They are only concerned if they look well in the President's eyes with their speech or not. Colleagues, I, of course, call on you to support this... do not support this proposal, but it will not be treated as such. It will not end up being like that. It's a little, a little...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U302	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U303	Hello, dear colleagues! Well, this question... again ask for such a more serious analysis... There must be logic in every question. If a crisis is expected at national level next year (GDP minus four per cent - minimum), then the reduction should actually be affected - normal! - all areas; the exception is not civil servants' salaries either. What, then, is the logic of defending officials, the main winners, by increasing salaries? This is a question of fairness - whether it is these officials or not. The president refused, so he has a conscience, a good conscience, a hat to take off! But what about the rest of the officials? We have just voted to cut the budget for municipalities (this affects a very large part of the population in the countryside!) - We've reduced it by... more than seven, even nine percent. This is about the increase... about some kind of increase in quality. What then have these officials earned there, and what good will they do there next year, if they increase their wages? It's just a question of honesty! I call on these officials to act in the same way as the President and to submit their applications, to stop this increase - the increase in wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U304	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U305	I would like to turn to Mr Latkovsky, who has confirmed that he really reads the documents that have been submitted and, in this case, responds very clearly to the letter from the President - you support it. I wanted to hear at least one answer to letters from the host organization, associations, which were submitted to other laws. Also about the development capacity of local governments... A whole series of such applications were made in these accompanying documents, which we talked about for a week. And there, unfortunately, it was a reduction and a call not to decrease. This is about growth and... leave as it has been so far. And we all understand what kind of President's life has been like so far, under what conditions... And that's solidarity -- well, so conditional... I think that's what we all understand. But with regard to the common administration and location... I would like to remind everyone: this same government, represented by the New Unity and Development/About! , which talked about a single remuneration system - this same government did not vote a month ago - left the question of introducing a single remuneration system for an unknown period of time. The same government, which could have come up with a single system, left the same system and now, by its very nature, makes it more crippling, with a wide range of exceptions, already in its crippled system. Colleagues! Supporting or not supporting this proposal, which has been submitted: it will absolutely not change the situation of Latvian citizens. Symbolically, we will do something, but we will not help the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U306	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U307	So the "dry balance" of this debate on proposal 14 is as follows: One point. Mārtiņš Bondars had to say that the commission was supported, but received a letter from the Presidential Chancellery... asks for this salary supplement here... That doesn't happen. So point one - the fact that the President freezes his pay. Two points. What I understood (and I am very pleased to hear it here also publicly) was that Mr Latkovsky said that he also did not support the increase in the salaries of the Prime Minister, Ministers and Parliamentary Secretaries. Nice to hear, very good! Dana Reizniece-Ozola answers your question, which... is a separate bill... As far as I can see, it's also on the agenda... tabled from a Contracting Party... If we can't agree in a coalition... I realized that “Development/About!” it is not very acceptable to raise this salary, because you have to be all common here in these movements of fate... all officials in the same strichiate as kindergarteners. I don't think so. So this "dry balance" that we observe... So the president does not receive an annex, the Prime Minister does not receive an annex, ministers do not receive an annex, parliamentary does not receive an annex. This is the “dry balance” of all of this here. Mr Bondara, please explain the proposals. As Mārtiņš Bondars, you can press the button and speak as a Member. Marty, you can't watch your fingers all the time! I'm looking... Well, as you have to tell me if there's something in here or if there's something you don't accidentally be... did not say or say. Please, be so kind, members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission from the coalition and also ministers, take part in this debate on the Latvian state budget!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U308	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U309	Colleagues! I will appeal to those who argue here that there is an enormous need at the moment for senior officials to increase their remuneration. I would remind you that two-year-old data or two-year-new data are taken as the basis for an increase in remuneration. And the average pay... Well, in this case... In 2018, its growth... The average wage in the country grew by 8.4 percent that year. The economy was also growing that year - 4.3 percent. It cannot be that we look at the increase in wages and link it only to positive, economic growth. At a time when the economy is falling - there must also be an inverse logic that the remuneration of senior public officials must not grow so rapidly. Otherwise, we... that we only think of the domino effect in public administration. And indeed, in previous days, none of you talked about what the domino effect will be at a time when micro-entrepreneurs, patent-payers, self-employed workers will no longer be able to work in their tax regimes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U310	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U311	Hello, fellow Members, again! Hello, community! This proposal on the President of Latvia, the Cabinet of Ministers and all these wage increases during the crisis... it has an explanation in such a fairy tale format - that in langan, the glittery lerpat thought that it was necessary to increase the wage for himself, or in other words to provide a self-retention allowance. If still... in other words... One sentence... for five thousand euros... would not be bad at a difficult time. About that was the idea that during that time, the entire ruling coalition, the lerpathy, thought it was the right time. And then, suddenly, all these people from the coalition of power, who are coming up in the truce today, turned out that the people would not understand it. That there's too much dryness. That the people cannot sink in any way the fact that the people are less but power more. And then, miraculously, as such a blessing on Latvia's land comes the feeling that during the crisis, the state's senior officials do not need to raise their remuneration! That is, of course, ridiculous. And it's in a situation where... The remuneration in general, of course, should be raised if it were officials acting in the interests of the Latvian people and the state of Latvia. However, this is not the case. This case is merely a self-retention allowance in their personal interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U312	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U313	Yeah, thank you. Dear colleagues, This amendment talks about a small amount in the whole budget, but it was this amendment that encouraged a number of members of the coalition... You, colleagues, sit quiet when we talk about small entrepreneurs, about the self-employed, about social protection, about doctors and teachers. Now, obviously, is what you consider to be the highest priority. Because theoretically, you are right: of course, those working in public administration must have decent salaries so that, as you say, qualified people work there. But how will other people view it? We invite and ask people to endure. Because you obviously listened to what the Prime Minister said on Sunday. He is asking people he calls friends, but he has to endure and realize that it is a situation where people lose their income, lose their jobs, and find it difficult for them to do so. And right at this point those government officials and presidents, and so on, - they don't give up their benefits and - even more so! - even quite tiny, I would say, but I want to raise my salary. Yes, the President refused, it is the right gesture, but what is the signal, the mess we send to people, in view of the crisis of trust that we are already seeing now? Indeed, the situation is getting worse also because... and, above all, because people simply don't believe us. I think that at least this symbolic move should be done. For, however, let us consider how people will perceive this vote! I call for the vote against proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U314	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U315	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! Unfortunately, the discussion on increasing the tax burden... together with the budget package... which affects the whole (not to be heard) ... taxpayers... This discussion was left out by the government and public administration, but the discussion of the need to freeze remuneration for those working in the public administration (this decision could in theory affect only 50,000 people) resulted in such an active participation from Members in the position. But the question arises: what results have been achieved in public administration... with the ministers? We see that GDP per capita in Latvia has not even reached the average level adopted by the European Union, we are still the third of the bottom. Has the public administration achieved results that improve the demographics... questions? Have we grown up in birth? No, it's not grown up, there's only a drop and a minus. Do we have a drop in the level of corruption, according to experts? None. Haven't decreased! We are still a "risk group" and point to errors and shortcomings. Does the second wave of Covid-19, which now we all feel and which panic is being brought about, show that public administration and ministers work properly and effectively and quality management? Doubt. Is poverty and social exclusion reduced in Latvia? Is it done only because of the judgments of the Constitutional Court... Is that so? So I have a question: what is the remuneration for?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And do you want to increase this in line with GDP growth in 2018?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please do not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U316	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U317	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! I sympathise with the request of the President of Latvia not to increase his salary and representation expenses next year, and therefore I call on you not to support this proposal, the 14th. I would like to point out to those Members who argue in favour of this proposal that the entire system of public wages would then be disrupted... I invite you to read the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. There, in this law, you will see that the President's salary is not at all attached to the average monthly salary... There are salaries attached to the Prime Minister, the Speaker of the Saeima, but not to the President of the State... The salary of the President of Latvia shall be decided when adopting the budget. And we have full rights in this simple... Rejecting this proposal, is now in favour of the President's wish to take this into account in the course of the adoption of this budget. Consequently, I call for the 14th proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U318	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U319	Yeah. Colleagues! Thank you for the wide-ranging debate on proposal 14. I would just like to remind you that in the Commission the 14th proposal has been supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U320	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U321	Proposal No 15 is also a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission has been supported, but there is no vote on the substance, because we rejected the previous proposal. And that's why I would call for a move to 16. - the Cabinet's proposal, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U322	The debate is possible. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U323	Good afternoon! It is difficult to tell me that this proposal is to be voted or not to be put to the vote. It seems to me that there is a vote to be taken and, in this regard, of course, the Legal Bureau will be able to give its opinion to the Chair of the sitting on whether or not to vote. But in general, given that the explanatory memorandum to this proposal states that this funding is needed to increase representation expenses so that the increase in the representation of the President increases... Similarly, as would the Prime Minister and Ministers therefore... apparently in the same proportion... then, in this case, this proposal, like the previous... precisely because the President has made such a request, it is also possible to vote - contrary to the Commission's view, it is possible to vote and therefore to reject it. I call on you to count on the President's vision in this regard and not to support the 15th proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U324	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U325	Dear colleagues, I will also call for this proposal to be rejected if it is put to the vote. We have seen very many brave combatants of these wage increases, who suddenly (the sixth day after the budget) have also started to read the proposals. Indeed - very welcome! Here, however, I would like to point out one more moment. I think now... Unfortunately, the ministers of the governments, of today's governments, do not deserve either an increase in wages or even an increase in wages themselves, because what we are seeing right now, in this crisis situation, is just a promise. Now too... Mr. Neighbours said that we should keep track of this live broadcast. A little while later, I realized that this live broadcast was called to scare people again and promise again. Just as yesterday we heard an absolutely reprehensible Prime Minister's speech - to be condemned, because the Prime Minister did not hesitate to use the time of the ether, the best time, the prime time to tell them - absolutely nothing, just once again, that sometime there will be support for those people who do not have the opportunity to work at the moment. That is exactly what we hear today from the President's palace - that sometime there will be support. Colleagues, get away! Dear Ministers, get away! From October 14, people, such as interest education teachers, cannot earn income from your actions. You have not come up with any support mechanisms for people who do not currently have to pay bills. And you're talking about the fact that you don't have one cake left for you?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's perfect, it's absolute shame! Your...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U326	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U327	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! I will also call for no support for this proposal, proposal 15, but I would like to clarify whether or not there is a vote. In my time of chairing the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission in the previous Saeima, I have gone into this regard. And if you look at Section 5 (2) and Section 6 (5) of the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions, you will see that it is established there that the representation expenses of the Prime Minister may not exceed 95 per cent of the representation expenses of the President of Latvia. And exactly the same norm has been incorporated into this law... as well as with regard to the Speaker of the Saeima. Consequently, the restriction on representation expenses to the Prime Minister concerns in the form of a chain both the Speaker of the Saeima and the Prime Minister as well as all those who have such representation expenses... submitted. But despite this, I call on you to support this... that is, reject proposal 15 because... So this limit is just... it is only about the maximum possible level of representation expenditure, but, as many people have already explained here today, many Members have explained - if we are living in a crisis, then we must probably also realise that expenditure must be in line with the crisis. There are places where they need to be increased, and there are places where they need to be reduced. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U328	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U329	Colleagues! However, I would call for a 'no' increase in representation expenses for the head of government and ministers. I can imagine in this situation that perhaps Prime Minister Kariņš, who is now receiving almost EUR 5 000 in pay and who has also been working abroad for several years, in Brussels, where there are quite different sums in the purse... he certainly cannot understand: what is that nation that those members of the opposition are baking for nothing... There's a few hundred... pay... increase in representation expenses?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But the rest of you... colleagues, ministers who were travelling to the regions and meeting the population before the elections understand that this standard of living is far from being in Brussels. I think you should, however, be more aware that, at this moment, when people really lack livelihoods, it would be only right to do so: not to increase representation costs for themselves. Colleagues, still those who do not know: the ministers and the Prime Minister receive the representation expenses and will not tax them. Think about what you can also answer to all those small regimes for taxpayers, to whom you have increased the tax burden for each euro that they will earn next year, while you are imposing on yourself a representation cost free of tax!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U330	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U331	Hello! I have just listened to a press conference for our main officials. I will inform Members that the emergency will be extended until 11 January. The principle of “two people – two meters” will also be established for households...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U332	Mrs Ločmele, please speak on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U333	I am talking about the proposal! This proposal must be rejected because these ministers do not deserve just an annex; they do not deserve their salary, because what should have been done to our country when it was clear that the second wave was insurmountable - it meant going the Slovakian way. But we're only going to increase the testing capacity here. When it was shown in Slovakia that national testing has reduced infection twice... It was certainly absolutely all the sick people... We could have taken it right on the external border... That's just what we're gonna do now... what the opposition spoke about in spring. What South Korea and the rest of Asia did: we could do everything... Only these ministers could not do so. So what are the representative expenditures?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why? Forgive those new costumes they're talking about today's stupidity? We don't have a normal plan or... a plan that people could understand. And ask your mother, who has two little children, how she can... with which child to keep a two-metre distance - with the youngest or the oldest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U334	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U335	Colleagues! I also call for this proposal to be rejected and I would like to emphasise in particular that representation expenses... in addition, at a time when most of the work takes place remotely... their increase is difficult, difficult to understand... even more so if you take into account that all these small businesses have the complexity of life as much as possible. At the moment, I would also like to emphasise in particular that these very... so symbolic... The symbolic votes that the Saeima is currently making with great unanimity do not ultimately outweigh the grieving - grieving - people! - the votes that took place last week. And so I call on my colleagues to really think if you once think that this budget... this government has worked so badly that they in no way... no bonus, no salary increase, nothing... it's probably also a rating for this budget... And if some of you have a good evaluation of this budget with a three, I can't give it as such. Because the bad things that come with this budget already tell us today that it will not happen, it will destroy human business, it will force people to go into the shadow economy. And now we hear... even don't even have to wait for the adoption of the budget, we are already hearing something that I already had concerns about, that this could happen - that the bad Saeima alone does so as it votes... and the government will immediately start preparing support measures for those who are especially chosen by the government. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U336	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U337	Yeah, thank you. What does the government intend to represent? What results? Is chaotic action and fear of man and failure to ensure timely and effective action to prevent the second wave of the community? Will the “fine” results be presented and presented, that 212 000 people will be cut their income and taxes and close to 60,000 will probably remain unemployed as a result of the tax reform? Will the representative expenditure cover the frustration of people resulting from the failure of tax reform, from the complex and highly complex personal income tax system, from additional fines, from the increased rate of transport tax (income in the budget) and from the absence of a programme to address demographic issues in the country? It seems to me that such representative expenditure should not be extra funds from the state budget. Please do not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U338	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U339	Colleagues and society! I had switched on the TV yesterday long time ago (in the phone though, admitted) when I had applied to speak to one such strange American citizen, and he said: “Friends, it’s not good!” It's a day, and it's a day, and it's a day. Let's increase the representation expenses for ourselves! I understand the reason. If you speak honestly, I understand this: Well, if a person can't show up even on television, 10 minutes of speaking total void, and then the next day the same void continues, with something threatening society all the time, then... it is clear that then there are “friends, not good!” , and it is clear that then it is necessary to significantly increase the resources for representation expenses in order to be able to better represent them. Well, that is probably the main reason why we need to look at such a proposal at all. And friends really aren't good, because they're not your friends, dear society! Neither are those who call for an increase in representation expenses, nor those who vote in favour of it all, nor even those who now pretend to vote 'no', but in fact, if they had not built up that loudness in society, they would have voted 'yes' - at a time when you are being deprived of... when you get jobs closed and you can't even leave the house right away without... You can't go anywhere, it looks like it's going. Because it's worked hard. We were champions all summer, everything was so fantastic, and in the end it turned out... as usually in a hockey - the first period of play, the last - style classics... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U340	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U341	Colleagues! The fact that the head of the government uses the television prime time to try to solve internal problems in the government, and the fact that the head of the government, in doing so, is unduly worrying to the public and causes an absolutely enormous sense of insecurity in very many people, especially the elderly, about it...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U342	Mrs Stepanenko, on the proposal, please! Proposal No 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U343	Yeah! Mr Kariņš deserves to be punished, not by raising wages, but by the most severe penalty. He deserves to be removed simply from the position of Head of Government because such a person does not deserve to lead the government. He simply uses the current situation to try and influence his ministers in every way. Instead, he should lead the country rather than now fly around the castle or join “Panorama”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U344	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U345	Yeah. In the light of the recommendations made by the Legal Bureau and given the wishes of Members to vote on proposal 15, I would just like to remind you that proposal 15 has been supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U346	I will just make it clear that draft law No. 836/Lp13... we are voting on each proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 13, against - 72, abstaining. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U347	Thank you, colleagues. Proposal No 16 The Commission is supported. I call on you to support it and also to support the printed media through the support of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U348	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U349	Colleagues, I am absolutely unequivocally in favour of this proposal... And the media... Especially at this time, when they are also experiencing the consequences of the Comma's crisis... and that's not the best time... even without the community... But I was embarrassed by something else. And I'll tell you what. Because I tried to learn from the members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission how this money would be spent, and the answer was that... No one really explained anything there, nor did Mr Bondara explain how and what. And I remember Friday's intense debate, where everything that affected business... and where the debate was limited to the members of the opposition... And now I also looked at who of the government is, who listens to something, and I found Kaspars Gerhard somewhere... Welcome to Kaspars! Something he's... He seems to follow that course. Since 2000, I remember various governments that have, of course, come and gone... as in Latvian statistics... but there was always a setup... Prime Minister has always said to all the ministers - you must go, you must defend your proposals, you must explain, because Members do not know this; otherwise Members and the opposition will roll over you! These are some of the phrases that were always heard, and the budget was something that everyone was extremely careful about. And that's why I'm still... Well, let's say, I am very confused that this budget that you have given to us, the opposition, just to tear... Perhaps even its good things have disappeared there. This good thing, too, will probably disappear behind everything that no one is already defending it, no one needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U350	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U351	Yes, colleagues, indeed, in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) we also asked questions about how these funds will be used and also the funding that is planned in the Ministry's budget to support the media. Unfortunately, no replies were received on what criteria will be used and what purpose this funding will be used to support. At the moment, it remains to be hoped that this funding will not have to be used by the media to translate what the Prime Minister really wanted to say. After yesterday's speech, I think it was also quite bright in the written media that... even the titles were as follows: “What did the Prime Minister want to say?” I think that the Head of State should be able to clearly define the idea, explain the changes in taxation, explain the new limits rather than then budget the media to try to make things work for the government.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U352	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U353	As early as this year, the pandemic led to a sharp drop in advertising revenue for the media. This is due to a fall in the size of business and overall economic activity, and the Government has therefore supported the creation of a Media Support Fund with substantial funding and its administration has been entrusted to the Society Integration Fund. Accordingly, the selection procedure... how projects in the media are selected. We can judge if there are those... the result is good or bad. But the fact that it is essential support for the media in these difficult times cannot be denied. Consequently, in my opinion, this proposal is good and acceptable, and it will provide an opportunity for the media to give us all... offer quality content. So I'm calling for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U354	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U355	This time not as a Member, but as a Parliamentary Secretary. That's accurate. The Media Support Fund is not a legal entity, it is a set of funding directed to support journalism projects. And this competition, which will be on Media Support Fund money next year, is administered by the Society Integration Fund. Criteria Priority will be given to support research and analytical journalism projects, media literacy projects, media criticism projects, culture and social content. There will be separate funding for Diaspora media as well as for the content of persons with disabilities. The funding will be distributed: separately for national media, and separately for regional media. Therefore, regional media will not compete with major national media. All this takes place under a competitive procedure. And now for the total sum of two budget programmes of the Ministry of Culture that go to the budget base. In particular, there are EUR 961 000 for the Media Support Fund plus EUR 40 000 for the Diaspora (promoting the integration of society). And if Members now vote in favour of this additional funding - EUR 450 000 - for the Media Support Fund, then next year's total funding from the Media Support Fund will reach EUR 1 451 000, which will be 200 thousand more... more than the funding of the Media Support Fund in 2020. So I call on Members to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U356	Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U357	For the media, there has been a sharp drop in income as a result of the code crisis, and this has happened in a situation where the local advertising market has been narrowing for years, because advertising is moving to the internet, mainly to international players... However, it is in the interest of our democracy to maintain diversity in the media space, and it is also in the interest of our democracy to ensure that high-quality journalism, quality information is available, because it can only be expected to mitigate the damaging effects of disinformation. The Media Support Fund is the mechanism that will allow us to provide support to commercial media. The Fund is not enough money, this allocation too is not enough, but it is extremely necessary, and I therefore call for support for this as a first step towards strengthening media diversity.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U358	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U359	Colleagues! I call on you to remember that patent-payers, beneficiaries of royalties, micro-entrepreneurs (especially in the regions) are also active in the media, which you are currently having with this week's debate, where... you have voted... you will make it very difficult - you will make it very difficult! - these media workers live. At the same time, what Mrs. Steels said... With all due respect, you said precisely in the media market... Mr. Butane also said something about the loss of advertising revenue on the media market... And above all, these advertising revenues... a large part also goes to these multinationals, to social networking companies, from which we unfortunately do not collect taxes. And it was you who voted against our draft law... However, to change something in this situation and introduce a new tax in Latvia. With the proceeds of this tax, we would have achieved that we should not fight against our entrepreneurs, the local population, the patent fee payers and many other groups that you have with this budget... You made it very difficult for them to continue their lives. And these support mechanisms - that's... It is the worst thing that happens - you do not allow people to earn themselves, make life difficult for them and force them to come and pray for support mechanisms that are, of course, not enough. You wipe out more than you give back. But where you can take it, you don't take it. And that's why both this government and this parliamentary coalition have a very bad job assessment, because it's just where you can take it - from multinational companies... We in the Union of Greens/Farmers twice have proposed this solution, but you have still not even referred it to the Commission for consideration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U360	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U361	Thank you. Colleagues! Well, in fact, there's such a pretty unfair dilemma. We are listening to the speech of colleagues from the coalition that this proposal supports commercial media, supports the exit of the media from the advertising market, but at the same time the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Culture listed the conditions under which... after which will be distributed as if free support money. And that leads to such conclusions on the frame of the freedom of the press. Firstly, because there will be a competition. Secondly, because there will be a priority - research journalism. So, some funny division. And then... If we look at what our discussions have been about the breakdown of journalism and journalism, and what the industry, or working journalists, have said about it, all the more, it shows that you want to frame the freedom of the press. And the industries did not agree to the frame at that time. So it is probably not exactly right: to say that this funding will support media exit from the advertising market and will provide support at a time when businesses are falling, advertising opportunities are falling and the state has said that advertising will not be the main source of income. In fact, it may be suspected that this proposal has been constructed so cunningly... and yet reflects the parauny... who pays, it orders... Well, in this case maybe not quite music. I would call for these doubts to be rebutted, because the conditions read absolutely do not indicate that the media will receive aid in that particular... and to those who will need to be able to maintain their freedom and freedom of expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U362	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U363	I thank Ritvar Janson for his explanation of where and how this funding will be spent under the Media Support Fund. At the same time, in support of this proposal, I hope for media understanding and for that... and call them to that... In fact, the creators of this media content are people, they are employees. And so I call on the media to think about these employees who provide content production when they receive this funding from the Media Support Fund. These are social guarantees for them... paying wages and other... working conditions... and other benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U364	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. ( Pause) Mr. Valains! Dear colleagues, A technical break is needed, and I think it is time for a break. One second... Registration of the members of the meeting. It's over. We come back to the sitting at 3.30 a.m. after the intercom. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U365	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. Debate on Proposal No 16. So... there is no Member of the system Artuss Neimins. Name of the next speaker. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U366	Colleagues, actually... One comment I wanted to make when I heard Mr Butane call for this funding to be used to pay salaries and taxes. Then I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that, following the new tax changes, additional funding should indeed be provided so that the media can cover the rise in royalties for taxpayers, because... in particular, the written media are actually using this form of tax payment to be able to pay more remuneration and to keep more money for their journalists. Here, then you have to choose whether... So, as Mr. Janson said... that there will be a higher quality content or that money will be used to compensate for tax gains. On the contrary, I think that even more funding should be provided to really support the media as well as tax payments.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U367	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U368	Yeah, thank you. Honourable Members! So it's about the media. I think that's not a big sum. I have two comments. First. Hundreds of thousands of dollars are not big money for written media, but let us not get the way that we give, for example, to a publication such as “Vesti”, which regularly slanders the country of Latvia and publishes the Kremlin propaganda! That is first. Secondly. A little bit about that research programme. What will the Society Integration Fund share? Some reference system is needed on the usefulness of these studies. I will give you a few examples. I don't know who's financing them, but... Well, just... Various studies... Now we have democracy, we have freedom of expression... For example, a recent “De Facto” and “Re: Baltica” opened a terrible... I couldn't sleep three nights... You understand. It turns out that Nazism is reborn in Latvia. The shadow of Fascism is over our beloved godly land. The right are infiltrated in political parties, Earthguard... Even in the German Bundestag. And think about it, they're about to infiltrate NATO as well... Armed Forces. Well, we can't. And it is good that we have such research that, let us say, awakens us. And look at the right, what you're seeing there, the Order of Lacples. And what does it remind you? I'm going to fire. Look left - Latvian songs. And what's on the lids? Again, a firecut, yes. You can't sleep! Look ahead - battalion Azov has arrived from Ukraine. Well, fascism is fascism! Look in the sky - well, no, there's everything right, there's a iris, thank God. But if you're serious, research is needed, for example, on same-sex couples. Every 10 years, a study of their raised children took place in the United States, where there are thousands of couples tested for more than 10 years and only two so-called “family” (foots!) these couples have not changed. This is what we do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U369	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U370	Colleagues! I'm sorry I must have missed... your previous place where I was... top... I'm talking. There was another sitting in parallel. Look, on the 16th proposal. So the Society Integration Fund to ensure the implementation of the Media Support Fund... including e-commerce... electronic commercial media!... TV and radio programs, digital internet media... support for both the euro and the print media - that is, the euro... This is a very welcome proposal. It is very good that it is included here in the budget, and it is also supported by the Commission. I am also pleased that the money is being allocated to the SIF, the Society Integration Fund, and then to the SIF afterwards... And that money, too... These 200,000 plus 250,000... And then... They'll also monitor how they've spent it then, how we're doing with the commercial media... to whom it has been assigned. It will, in my opinion, make the work of the NEPLP very easier, because the NEPLP will not be as over-exploited as it is now, because with the money of the previous community that we gave to commercial media, we have overloaded the NEPLP so much that they are currently only doing this monitoring and watching everyone... both public media, commercial media and radio channels and looking for where... for every cent, for every second where... must have this reference function, then make it now SIF. That is very good. Mr Valaiņš, you mentioned the digital tax here. I am with all four on the digital tax, there must be a digital tax, but I am convinced that it would only work if we, the three Baltic States, were to do so together. There must be a round table with the rest of the Baltic States to do it together, because we cannot do anything alone with a giant like Google or Facebook. This will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U371	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U372	Yeah, thank you. I just wanted to say that I advise everyone to read the last issue of the magazine “Riga Time”, there is a reference to the study that I mentioned in the United States. Imagine - if of the thousands of couples that have been studied for 10 years, only two couples have not changed their partners, children have grown up in psychological trauma - most of them! This research is serious, it is topical, for example, also in relation to the Constitutional Court, which has not carried out such research and apparently has not become familiar with such serious international research. Therefore, I think that not only is there a need for some kind of reference system, how these studies are used if it is taxpayers' money, but obviously the country should also be formed... So the relevant ministries - the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Education and Science - have to finance such research apparently, because with the amounts that are here... with them to beat thousands (media... For television... All right, left) we're not going to study much. My point was simply because we need serious research.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U373	The name is Viktor Valaini for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U374	I'm on the digital tax, colleagues. I think the digital tax should have been at least this year... the project and the government should have addressed it much more seriously. There is no indication at present. That's all we heard before... the first time we submitted this bill, then... The main reason was that the European Union would deal with it and then have a common approach. At the moment, we see that this common approach has failed. And there is no other way of encouraging and implementing such an approach, in my opinion. And Latvia could be one that could take on. We passed this bill... tabled by the Saeima. It was not even passed on to the commission. Colleagues, where will that be the first step? I think the Saeima... Like all the media laws... could take responsibility for themselves and create them in the Saeima, not wait for the government to do so. The government will not do that.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U375	The name to Member Artus Neimins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U376	Yes, on proposal 16. I think it's just a third of the money that commercial media will need... which is now supported here. That's just a third. I think we're gonna have to find more and more... In some appropriations, money will be redistributed... money not yet committed. Mr. Valaiņš, you have been in a coalition, you know. If the issue has never been discussed at all, then it is rejected. This issue has indeed not been discussed before - the digital tax. I can give you my small promise that I will move this issue forward so that we start talking on the subject of digital tax. And you're right. That is what we have to do. And that should have been a long time ago. So on the table... I will also bring this to the coalition now, and Members are now hearing it, and I think there will be hearing ears about all this. There you go! We must finance, help commercial media at this difficult time. Please support proposal 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U377	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U378	Dear colleagues, Colleagues! Mr. Neighbours! The discussion on the digital tax was not because the majority of the Saeima refused to transfer the relevant draft law to the commissions at least twice. And we can pick up those protocols, so to say... on what has been the vote. I think... including Mr. Neighbour... have voted at least twice against the initiation of the discussion of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U379	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U380	I just want to say that 16. - The proposal of the Cabinet is supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U381	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U382	17 is also a proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is supported by the Commission. So 17. - The Cabinet's proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U383	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U384	Colleagues, however, I would like to call on behalf of the committee's chairmen to present every proposal. It doesn't take much time. It takes less than a minute to say what this proposal is about. I think this is your duty, and you also receive an extra premium for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U385	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U386	Thank you for your call. 17. is the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is supported by the Commission. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U387	You can also say something about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U388	Yeah... No... Well, you can already say what that is about. It's about... funding for the participation of three civilian experts in the European Union Advisory Mission... civil security sector reforms.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U389	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U390	18. - the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which in turn has been supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. And this is related to the security of Latvia, with Latvia's foreign policy efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U391	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U392	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, 18. The proposal is a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission, which is very close... largely related to the political support expressed by the Saeima for the people of Belarus. In particular, this proposal proposes to re-allocate the internal budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by shifting 120 thousand next year to the activities and aid instruments that Latvia provides to the Belarusian people - both political and financial support, legal assistance and medical assistance. Why was this proposal prepared? It is clear that on 1 October the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia adopted a statement in which we invite the Cabinet to provide both financial and political support to the Belarusian people. The Cabinet of Ministers has this call... has also been the subject of funding by the end of this year, where, by the way, legal assistance is provided through this funding, as well as medical assistance, psychological assistance... and so on. But in the Foreign Commission, hearing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs next year... we saw that this funding was not earmarked next year. We are all aware of the current situation in Belarus and are likely to continue at the beginning of next year. In this context, we invited the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to find funding so that this assistance could continue in 2021. So they are from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' internal resources... re-distributed funds... In particular, from next year's meeting of NATO foreign ministers, which is likely to take place in digital format, it was possible to re-allocate...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U393	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U394	Colleagues! I support this initiative. In addition, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are many practical issues where we need to think about both our procedures and concrete practical support from the state institutions in cases where indeed Belarusian people are seeking asylum here. One thing is, of course, such political support and parliamentary resolutions for maintaining the emotional spirit of the people, but in practical cases, when the Belarusian people or families actually enter here, we still see that residence permits are quite difficult to obtain, because they are, to be taken into account, non-standard situations - for example, if a child has to obtain a residence permit and he has arrived here with one parent. Most often, this is not a situation where a second parent can receive support for the reason that it is difficult to obtain a residence permit. The employment opportunities of parents. If, for several months, a person has to stay here without means of subsistence or with minimal means of subsistence, it also makes it difficult, of course, to take any kind of decision at all... on going abroad and expressing one of its active political positions. Children's schools - another practical question. If parents have come here with a child, this is an important question. The child needs to go to school, and it would be important that there is some quick and simple solution for providing these educational opportunities. It is positive that NGOs are already operating, trying to work with all these practical issues, helping these Belarusians to also communicate with public authorities, but for the time being we can still see that we have a desire to help, but there are practically many problems that we have to face. I call on you to support this proposal and also to think... more in the direction of government... on green corridors in many public institutions to help these people.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U395	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U396	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to say that I do not remember a special debate. As the rapporteur could figure out, but the Rules of Procedure do not foresee this. I therefore call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U397	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U398	Colleagues, 19. - The Cabinet's proposal. Given that we are slightly changing excise duty, its information systems need to be adapted to the State Revenue Service. It costs some money. That is what the money in the 19th proposal is. Supported by the Commission. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U399	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U400	Colleagues! Its money is not a kind of money; it is more than half a million euros to adapt the State Revenue Service systems... the amendment to the Law on Excise Tax, as well as the amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance. I think this is very good... to put it more correctly, a bad example of how the government is shaping tax policy. If it is planned to change tax rates, change the procedure of administration of tax payments, then it would be normal if the government, together with the planned amendments of the law, provided for in the draft state budget as well as financing for adjustment of systems. The fact that, for the second reading, we are still carrying demands in the government in order to get enough money and to adapt the systems, shows that there is a total chaos. That during the period between readings, within a few weeks, there have been some kind of lumps in some decision-making... and so we also actually understand the amendment of the law on State social security... that already in the last evenings trying to understand - we want to collect taxes, we want to get a lot of them to citizens, we can't really understand how to do it in practice and how to administer it to the State Revenue Service. This is a very bad practice. We have already discussed the fact that, in general, tax changes should be adopted at least six months before they enter into force, then there would also be time and funding to prepare for their practical administration by public authorities. Thank you. I will, of course, support this proposal, but I would like to emphasise that it is not a good host approach.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U401	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U402	Dear colleagues, Here, please think of yourself. You have seen all its changes in excise duty. They're all actually... We've gone through it. If already, by changing its excise duty rates, we need half a million euros to enable the Ministry of Finance to adapt to it, to adapt its information systems, then some more serious tax changes will probably need - what? Change the whole Ministry of Finance, colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U403	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U404	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say on proposal 19 that such a debate, as you have just heard from my colleagues... There was no such debate within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. In the Commission, this proposal has been supported and I call on you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U405	Is one of the Members asking for a vote? Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U406	Thank you. 20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. It is related to “Latvijas Loto”. Supported by the Commission. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U407	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U408	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U409	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U410	22. - also a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. I've been supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U411	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U412	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U413	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U414	24, on the other hand, is a proposal from the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission. And that means that I call on you not to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U415	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U416	Yeah, I'm just not on the screen yet... 25. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. This is also not supported by the Commission. I call on you, too, to reject it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U417	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U418	Colleagues! This, like the previous proposal, has been prepared by the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, listening to the trade union of Latvian education and science workers. If any minimum programme for next year's draft budget has been implemented, this year by way of exception, creating a sense of security for teachers about raising the minimum wage rate, there are still a lot of measures that have remained outside of the board and that the government has not managed to find funding. The previous one was 300,000 to continue the programme of social support for educators in cases where they remain unemployed as a result of the arrangement of the school network. And since it is still planned to optimise the number of schools or, more precisely, close down some schools, such guarantees would be extremely necessary. This proposal, on the other hand, provides for funding for the introduction of the content of competence-based education, because it is one of the reforms that was certainly well thought out, but in fact very hasty implementation - without timely material preparation, without training for educators. This is what the trade union points out: teachers need to pay additional workload, extra working hours and different formats for cooperation between educators in order to prepare the learning process and the teaching tools for the full organisation of work. I think it is particularly topical at this time, when they have to introduce new content without having to introduce it, the form has also changed. You, my fellow Members, have voted recently that remote work is now also a mandatory component of the on-site training process. This is a new form, which also needs to be adapted by educators. Many are dealing with this, but many need additional support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U419	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U420	Yes, colleagues! I will also call for support for this proposal. We can take an example. Let's say, Class 10, the subject of history. The book of history has been published in 2015, quite a plan, but children don't even look at it because they have these teaching materials in various other forms, because nothing has yet been prepared. Study materials... For example, they now need to learn about young Latvians... and is accompanied by a simple, well, printing of such materials... I think it's... It is a shame that today, children in the 10th class should learn about young Latvians from some charts and prints, not from proper teaching material, because children learn about young Latvians only once in school. It is not that they continue to repeat this substance every year. The way in which children will get acquainted with the most important pages of Latvian history seems to me to be very important. That is why I also support this proposal. I also support the support of teachers at this difficult time in terms of materials and methods, because in such bad times teachers have never worked at all. I understand we'll be back soon... maybe not in this budget, but very soon... In an emergency, let us return to the support of teachers, because what is happening now with government decisions is inconceivable. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U421	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U422	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! This proposal for a coalition should be supported and nevertheless... on the allocation of an additional six million to the School2030 project... I think... also for the development of training materials... At present, their work and the ministry’s work in general have not resulted in any tangible results for teachers. Also where September 1th, 4, 7th and 10th of the year have started training according to the requirements of the new standard... not only by how you learn, but also by the innovation of content... the practical training material is not specifically for these classes. Something is mentioned... that is until December some parts... that a single electronic platform is being developed, there are blue buttons and many other things that will probably come to teachers later, but in every case now teachers are the ones who use... work according to the program and to the requirements of the new standard, use existing materials and most often form... Returning to its history for at least 30 years, there are many materials that make it possible to learn differently. And, of course, it consumes extra time, it also consumes additional resources, and it can no longer be regarded as just a professional requested action... that the teacher should do so at all times. At this point... If there is reform, if there are new standards, new requirements, new guidelines, then the country should also give priority to content recommendations. I am not talking, unlike my colleagues, about the creation of new teaching books, it could be later, but in every case thematic... each theme should have access to new materials or new ideas. This is not the case at the moment, so teachers invest more.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U423	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U424	Colleagues! The Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union has long ceased to be a trade union with which it is worth talking only about wage increases. This organisation is also talking about a much broader subject, and we have also had the opportunity to speak to the LIZDA early in the summer, when there was a budgetary process, and it is now the end of it, so we are putting forward proposals that were also sent to every group. And it's such a peculiar reminder that by giving teachers money on wages... in particular - increasing wages... in particular - in these circumstances... we do not achieve in any way that these... that it is the only one that a modern educator needs. And it's not for nothing that the educators have now asked the Minister for a mission, because the Minister obviously has not fully listened to the needs that we... what teachers hope to expect from public administration, from the ministry, also from the Saeima. And in this case, we call on you, colleagues, also to go into it, because the teachers are now... For a long time, he has not only been a teacher. Its functions are much broader with the introduction of the new content. And what Mrs. Papule said... This funding for the new content... ‘School2030’... it has already been redistributed from inside the Ministry, from other sources. And there again comes the load, tension in the formation of content. That is why I am calling for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U425	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U426	Thank you, Madam President. Now we know that the government has found, at least there is, an additional opportunity to support teachers in their remote work. This proposal is not about it. This proposal is for the government to take responsibility for the fact that teachers do not have the training materials to work on. There may be further training courses, there are ideas how to do this, but there is practically no opportunity to implement the content of the new learning qualitatively. This would be support for teachers and also to some extent a positive step, showing that the state is committed to the work of teachers and will gradually also solve the problems with the means of teaching, but at this point will support those teachers who really... and during still remote working hours... takes care of quality, cares about not losing interest in learning... modern, but also... Modern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U427	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U428	Hello, dear colleagues! Absolutely not denying that in connection with the School2030 and the timely promises... The material provided - teaching aids and materials - has a problem, I do not really believe that simply giving extra money to this absolutely... something is going on for the very expensive project at the moment. Money is enough, but the question is about performance. And a short replica. I really wonder that we have the belief that a teacher can and can only reopen with the material that has already been prepared. In my opinion, today we are talking about teachers who are not so much more successful, but also need to develop as much as possible their own teaching tools and material subjects. Since I will not support this proposal, I really believe that money is enough for this purpose and, in addition, that it will not solve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U429	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U430	The UKP's former parliamentary secretary from the Ministry of Education and Science, from which he must have been thrown away, says Mrs Muižniece that there is so much money, reminds me of a fairy tale hero who has just told us that there is so much money - that there has never been so much money. I think that both teachers and parents of children know very well how much money it is and how much it is enough for the education system. What Mrs Muižniece should have done on this proposal - not only to support it, but to make it clear and clear that Šuplinska, together with Viņķele, is the two most incompetent ministers in this government and that Šuplinska had long since to resign. And thanks to the inaction of Šuplinska and Viņķele... not only for pay and not only for materials, but for the dependent education system... the whole of our company will immediately pay with an additional restriction. And I'm not talking about... Teachers who are quite credible and cowardly about power are ready to demand have already overcome the fear of demanding the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science. I think it proves the level that all those KPPs and those who are running there around the Ministry of Education and Science - that they have to go home for a long time, and Mrs. Muižniece was first launched home from the Ministry of Education and Science, and...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U431	Talk to me about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U432	... then we should all the others... I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U433	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U434	Colleagues! Perhaps Mrs Muižniece's reply was an answer to my question. Maybe... I hope it was a comment on what I said, but I would like to say that in fact these materials... they must be ready, because in principle they form a system whereby in general the teacher provides the children with all of these items and the new substance. I understand that the teacher has not been working from the cover to the cover for a long time. He makes up, develops this content. But really it's not a normal situation that there's no system at all, it's not possible to look at it at all... Well, for example... As an example... in the above-mentioned historical learning process... and it's all simple, well, that's the kind of drama that's collected with the teacher's care, with the teacher's big job, but...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U435	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U436	I do not, in particular, have something to add on behalf of the Commission. I can only say that 25. - The proposal of the Group of the Greens/Family Union was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U437	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U438	Colleagues, proposal 26 is also a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. This involves increasing dividends from “State Forests of Latvia” and redistributing for the education sector, but the details will definitely tell you Dana Reizniece–Ozola, who has already applied to speak. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U439	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U440	Colleagues! Having listened to the Lisdis proposals, we have prepared this proposal on the remuneration of teachers for their work at a distance. It seems to me that this would be only logical, because we voted just recently - in the context of the Law on Personal Income Tax - on support for the private sector, allowing the employer to compensate, without tax, for the costs involved in setting up a job, for the less valuable items such as stationery and similar items, public utility charges, subscription fees for the Internet and telephone. These are all the costs that are now so... public support for the private sector, while teachers, who are indeed even obliged to work remotely with children at the moment, can ultimately end up so that this small increase in funding, by increasing the minimum rate, will have to be spent to a large extent on covering direct work responsibilities... Because of government decisions. Well, these decisions are also necessary to control the situation of the community, but, as the head of government itself often remembers and publicises, restrictions or responsibilities must come together with clear support. This is a proposal to do so. EUR 13 million - it has been calculated by the trade union itself - it is the necessary funding to make teachers feel comfortable and to cover these costs. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U441	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U442	Madam President, Colleagues! Thank you. This is a really natural proposal, despite the fact that some part of the government is committed to covering this year. However, the distant work is likely to continue next year and perhaps some time ahead. And it's clear that the remote work, especially for those teachers who work from the house... including the restrictions imposed by the epidemiologists... requires additional resources, creates additional costs - not only for the payment of the Internet, not only for the payment of the phone, but also for electricity, because the time and volumes consumed are increasing... and possibly other expenditure. And teachers' remuneration is not so high that it can be invested as a personal contribution to the promotion of distance learning, but also to solve the problems of the community. That's why, at this point in time, teachers... In terms of an increase of 40 million, there is nothing to be proud of. There is an average increase of EUR 50, which is the minimum that the government has committed to fulfilling the legal requirements according to the timetable for raising teachers' salaries, so that this funding should not be added, these are other commitments that the Prime Minister has committed to fulfil. But this is really an additional reimbursement for teachers. Why is it for the educators? The fact that teachers are unlikely to have subsidised jobs will not be subject to the process of idle, so that teachers cannot receive other support. All the more so if teachers work under any circumstances, even in these, when the capacity of teachers is reduced to some extent, both because of carrying masks at the workplace and... the fact that most will be working remotely immediately. And it will not only affect general education... 1-12. ... but also preschool. I call for support, if not now, then in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U443	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U444	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that this proposal from the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union has not been supported. Not supported... And maybe... Despite the fact that there has been a wide-ranging debate. I therefore call on you not to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U445	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! -30, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U446	27. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is a desire to increase the dividends of Latvenergo (you know how it affects every mask in Latvia) and to channel money to the education sector. But more will be told by Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U447	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U448	Mr Bondara, you could report, as rapporteur, on the substance of the proposal, rather than citing the sources of funding! We can also talk about sources. ‘ The Latvenergo dividend is intended not to increase but to channel part of what will be collected for this purpose rather than to reduce the OIC. In particular, the essence of the proposal, once again listening to the LiZDA initiative, is to support the provision of additional funding for the logopeds in general education institutions by increasing the funding of the logoped job rates from the state budget, as well as to ensure that all pre-school children are financed from the state budget's targeted grant... special education programmes, including children under five years of age. Much of this funding is also necessary for the purpose of complying with the draft regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers (rules on provision of general educational institutions in accordance with the educational... special... (see needs)... the State has already tried to commit itself, however. On the need for a logo for children... I think those parents with children at school also see... Experts estimate that more and more children at school start with serious logical problems, which in fact... Also the expert opinion... Experts also say that it is necessary to try to correct at kindergarten age without waiting for school age, and that before the child begins to learn another one... foreign languages. Sometimes, of course, the reason is that we... More and more children are being distracted by technology, and parents also have less time to talk to and read books (as an example), but there are also serious health problems that lead to such a logical disorder. Additional funding is needed. It's not... right now. it is not sufficient to remedy these defects. We invite you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U449	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U450	Dear colleagues, You may see that statements are now being reproduced in the public space that the government will reduce the OIC payments. Of course, what you will often not be told to the end is, unfortunately, that those OIC payments will actually be retained. In particular, they will be preserved for those who receive OIC, they will simply pay it not as people as Latvian residents, as electricity consumers, but as the same people as Latvian citizens, but as taxpayers. And the way the government does it is... The OIC payments are simply financed from the so-called Latvenergo profits. Of course it's different... If Latvenergo’s profits could not be used to make OIC payments, Latvenergo’s profits would enter the state budget as well as tax revenues and could be spent on other public needs. And by doing so, the government has just, as I believe, been disgustingly contradicting its declaration. In particular, the government declaration contains, if I remember correctly, paragraph 30, which commits that OICs should be abolished and not financed from other sources. But what the government does is that OIC payments are financed exactly from other sources that are made from Latvenergo's profits. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support this proposal. It is unacceptable - and not acceptable - that the government and the coalition are trying in this way to deceive voters and citizens by shifting the actual payment from one pocket to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U451	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U452	Yes, colleagues! If Mr Bondara started this discussion, then let us keep it. What the Union of Greens/Farmers offers - the Union of Greens/Farmers proposes that the Latvenergo dividend be shifted in a different direction from continuing to finance the components of compulsory procurement. You always mention the pleasant things that the Saeima has decided once and now with great, great joy, i.e. medical pay, but you forget to mention that the Saeima has also decided to abolish the mandatory procurement component completely. Unfortunately, this promise has absolutely not been fulfilled on your part. And what is happening with the reduction of the OIC payment is a fiction and, in a way, misleading citizens, because the payment is not reduced for these entrepreneurs. It is simply financed from the national budget, and its approach is absolutely wrong. In this way, you simply in some sense think of society at the moment. Mr Bondara, you said in your not too long speech how unpleasant it is to people - to pay these electricity bills, and to touch on this issue of dividends. Well, it really is, and maybe it is time, by its very nature, to do something about this decision, because it has not been done so far, colleagues. We call for these dividends to be directed towards other issues - education-related issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U453	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U454	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you also to the proposers for... This is really... Either, the discussion on a very topical subject, because now also because of remote learning or because there is a limited number of logoped educators, there is an increasing demand for corrections to this type of language disorder and for specialists who as soon as possible prevent language problems at the root of these problems for younger children. It is clear that distance learning, silent reading or the use of modern technologies are also creating new problems in language applications that have not yet been developed. With such a proposal and with such support, I call on the coalition Members to support... the large number of parents, especially parents of primary and pre-school children, will be grateful to you. You will be able not only to attract more specialists to schools, but also to remove the burden of paying your parents, looking after private hours, after private lessons, by actually supporting those logos that work more in private practice than at an educational establishment. Taking into account that municipalities are also being reduced in their budget, which can be invested in education, it is clear that municipalities will also have limited possibilities to support the work of logos. It is never forbidden - with its funding, to participate in educators involved in education... in terms of remuneration. Now municipalities will be less able to do so, and therefore, based on children's language errors, parents will have to pay for the development of the language. This proposal says that in the digital age too, such assistance must be a national response. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U455	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U456	Thank you. Thank your colleagues for their extensive explanation. Unfortunately, this interpretation was not in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission 28. ... 27. - The Greens/ Farmers' Union proposal was rejected. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U457	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! - 31, against - 54, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U458	So next, 28. - a proposal from Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Raimonds Bergmanis. The proposal is about introducing a new tax - a digital tax - and, of course, about moving this money on holiday. But, more than that, I think, will tell Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U459	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U460	Yes, colleagues! This proposal aims to support families with children, especially during this communion crisis, by providing public-paid holidays for all children under Class 9. State-paid holiday - this is not just a question of quality education, as we have seen in Finland... Even Finland's example, but it is also a matter of social aid. I think no one has a secret, especially non-governmental organisations that explore these issues, stress that during the crisis there is an enormous increase in inequality in society and that this is also the risk in Latvia. In Latvia, where the inequality rate is very high, the Gini coefficient is one of the highest in the European Union. This would be such targeted support not just for everyone, but for families with children, providing funding for children's lunch, because it is true, especially in regions, that the warm lunch that a child feeds in school - it is often the only quality and good meal for children. We offer digital tax revenues as a source of funding. You have rejected the draft law prepared by the opposition. A year ago, you promised that you would work on that. Now it is November, and again you promise that you will work on this. I think it is just that we have to do it, not put it all over time. Next year there was really a plan to channel this funding to children's holidays, but from 2022 and 2023, when the government realized that it was also worth the general revenue from the state budget to ensure that these funds were used to strengthen the content of the media, which, however, is planned for next year - at least to withdraw public media from the advertising market - in support of the media fund. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U461	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U462	Dear colleagues, Last year's debate on the holiday from the coalition really had a lot of arguments why the holiday should not be, but I believe that exactly the same way, with Mrs Reizniece-Ozola's words, it is a lot... it is a social factor. Even if we are talking about regions, unfortunately, children are often the only hot meal. State aid in this matter would be unmeasurable, especially in view of the fact that, in previous proposals, you rejected the possibility of these municipalities returning what you took away with this budget. We are talking about the redistribution of the IIN. And the digital tax - yes, colleagues, well, this is an opportunity for you to continue to give up. So this proposal is really fictional, in my view, very high quality, with reference to the source, so it is not simply a means of unforeseen events, it is really a supposed new type of income. And the fact that we're still still still! - this option is missed thanks to such a coalition, I guess... I don't know... without wishing to go into the matter - this, in my opinion, does not point to a good attitude of the hosts towards the state's income. There is a possibility here to really gain additional income and help both children and beyond what Mrs Reizniece-Ozola also said, thus strengthening the content of the media. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U463	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U464	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 28th proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U465	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - Member Reizniece-Ozola and Bergmanis' proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 48, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U466	Colleagues! 29. - The Cabinet's proposal. It's linked to the fact that... It is, in substance, an internal reallocation of funds, and it is linked to the community crisis and to the distance learning process. The Commission is supported. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U467	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U468	30. - also a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. It is a support to Daugavpils Construction Technology. The Commission is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U469	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U470	Colleagues! Overall supporting Daugavpils Construction Technology - they really work a lot and well, developing an important professional education institution in the region! - I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a typical proposal by Members' quota, which has been drawn up in the form of a proposal by the Cabinet of Ministers. Submit a proposal for second reading for the purchase of a safe, energy-efficient boiler in Dagda and building repair works in Viškis - how else should it be named? It would be normal for the Ministry of Education and Science to set up a support programme for vocational education institutions, and to set out criteria, if necessary, for tendering, which would then also provide for such funding for the organisation of individual facilities. This is a return to the quotas of Members that were eliminated a few years ago in the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U471	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U472	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Well, thank you for your courage. This is indeed a question of MEPs' quota, not of budget, of medium-term budget for additives, because it is really a heating boiler in one branch and the construction or repair of buildings in the other - it is usually the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Science. If it needs funding, then this year the Ministry of Education and Science has repeatedly re-allocation of the holiday money for grades 1-4, the state funding has devoted all of it, but not for the performance of direct functions. It is exactly what is written in funding, what should be done, whether it is in Latgale or in Vidzeme or elsewhere - it is a direct function of the Ministry of Education and Science, and this funding must be found. In addition, if it has such a unique resource that is used to implement both teachers' salary standards and to purchase modern technologies, all but not direct functions, no matter how much possible, there are students in Dagda, as much as possible, in Viškis there are students from 18 to 24 years of age, not adults or further education programmes, whether or not under the responsibility of Daugavpils PIKC - in all respects, it is an obligation to perform the internal function of the Ministry of Education and Science. It has a specific programme, and if it needs additional funds, then it would be very kind to give these funds, either with the authorisation of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission or with the decision of the Saeima, knowing that its amount is probably not up to the school, but that it would be appropriate to re-examine the way in which vocational education is carried out. I'll keep going later.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U473	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U474	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U475	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U476	Colleagues! I don't think it's as much as a surprise why we're going along with this crisis as we're going. If, it turns out, the Cabinet - well, it obviously took some time - deals with deciding on energy-efficient... for the purchase of boilers in each educational establishment, there is no surprise that there is no time left to deal with serious issues. Here, colleagues, logically... If we think logically, it's... Either the Cabinet of Ministers deals with micro-management, to put it very gently, so it is not able to address really serious issues, or we are talking about the clear incompetentness of the Ministry of Education and Science, which is now being adjusted by the Cabinet of Ministers, because then it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Science. If the Ministry of Education and Science was unable to ensure the replacement of this boiler in time, then here we see that the Cabinet of Ministers intervenes and does, so to speak, the work that the Ministry of Education and Science was unable to do. Or something unexpected happened -- this boiler suddenly... Some kind of disaster, something crashed, no longer working... But then, of course, the question is, why it does not come from unforeseen events, which would be more logical, and then the funds would have been allocated much faster than the draft budget for next year. Well, if all three versions fall back, we stay to what my colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, said. Then we see a real quota of Members here. This is an MEP, so to say... elected, they can... Of course, the majority can decide anything, the majority can also decide that there is such a Member's quota, but then, colleagues, if we already have such a Member's quota de facto, then I think it would be fairer if we were to do what it was before to have the names and surnames of the Members concerned in this proposal so that, to say, we know what those islanders are for the following year in Dagda County, because then it happens that those Members are hiding behind the Cabinet of Ministers. I call on these Members to say something loud about themselves. I think that it would only be fair for all other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U477	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U478	Yes, colleagues! This is a good proposal. Indeed, I very much support this. If repair and replacement of boilers are needed in Dagda as well as in Viņi, then it is necessary and, of course, it must be supported. But there are two things I'd like to say. The first thing is how ironic it is, we... The government removes 90 million from local governments and then divides its sample, even does not know the Latvian word... divide back certain local governments to implement certain cases and do so at their own discretion. The second thing. Here the biggest problem is lying to the public. If it's really the Members... so-called 'quota of Members' or'motion of Members', then that must be the case! Don't be misled. If, in this case, the Member does not get into this proposal openly, but he is in the position behind the Cabinet of Ministers, then in this case, I think I ask whether all schools in Latvia that need an energy-efficient boiler have actually been surveyed, and if indeed all the institutions that need any repairs have been evaluated and come to the conclusion that it is precisely these two that the government would have to support by decision of the government. I think colleagues, you know the answer very clearly. You don't have to hide from quotas. If you believe that such is necessary, then you need to do it openly and then you will not have to be afraid of this kind of public administration and all the wise words about openness and new policies... Well, sorry, colleagues, all of you who say this - after this vote I would advise you not to take that word in your mouth anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U479	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U480	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Of course, this issue is very important for Daugavpils construction technique. Since we have looked at the development of this technique at Latgale sub- commission - there were several important issues, including the branch in Dagda, because Dagda was left completely neglected for a moment and Daugavpils Municipality asked for help on how to solve this issue. And the solution was that Daugavpils Construction Technology created a branch there. And I'm pleased that they're also being arranged. But I wanted to say in a few words that Daugavpils construction technique itself is actually very important no longer only for Latgale, I think, but for our whole country, because there are many different types of specialists in the field of construction and not only. Very good work organisation is now there. Those who have been in this technique can confirm this. I know that this technique requires very much the construction of a gym. I hope that there is one of the proposals relating to the construction of this hall. There are more than a thousand students there, and in fact it is one of the most powerful (in my opinion, even in Latvia) precisely in relation to construction. I very much support this proposal and call on the others to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U481	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U482	Mr. Kazinovsky, you surprised me. The award in the city is a professional education institution of the municipality. The Latvian Local Government Union and now four or five (perhaps in number) municipalities have been established or taken over from the Ministry of Education and Science for several years now ask for state support... additional national support for student scholarships. You are defending the construction of boilers, which should be done (repeatedly the direct job of ISM), but you are not defending the Balvus, where your students would need state support for increasing the scholarship and getting your students into your own former... Management in a former district. There are other schools that need such support. That would really be additional support, but not lobbying of this kind!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U483	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U484	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues, reflecting on the previous discussion, when we talked about the increase in salaries and the increase in representation expenses for ministers and the President of Latvia, have said that a timely and thorough discussion on this issue is very important. Then, when the proposal at second reading appears... specifically dealt with in an accelerated procedure in two readings... without discussion, to provide additional funding for one boiler for the Dagda technique, especially given that Mrs Šuplinsk himself has also come out of Dagda... Well, then, there is the question of what we are talking about, what thoughtful, professional, high-quality management work and what discussion when adopting legislative changes in our budget package? And indeed there is a very short, timely and thorough discussion of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U485	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U486	I want to praise Mr. Riekstin. Get off the hat, Mr. Riekstin! You have submitted a proposal on your own behalf for allocating 1.2 million euros to Daugavpils Construction Technology for construction of a sports hall. At least honestly, you said that you wanted voter support in Daugavpils. You will go to the next elections - you will have something to tell you. And it is also that I am now looking at the table, that you have somehow defeated and will refer to this proposal. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission also did not support it. But I also call on the other Members, who have arranged for the replacement of the boiler and the replacement of the roof, to make a request that at least the voters also know who should thank you and who deserves nothing. For the rest of the coalition too, learn from this political force, if not with a direct proposal, and at least through the government, you can certainly get a little closer in your electoral regions, where you will be able to turn a tape before the elections and praise yourself.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U487	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U488	There were a number of politicians who strongly opposed these so-called quotas. You will do this right now with the next vote. And here, more is the question of procedure, of the political process. If this question is in the Saeima, the responsibility of the Saeima Members, then the Saeima Members should also place their signatures on it, and that would be a completely normal process. If it passes through a government, then there should also be a procedure in the government, and indeed there should be absolutely all the repairs of this type, there should be a clear assessment of how the government has reached such a decision. It is absolutely clear here that this will not be a decision that can be explained either in a transparent way or in any way. This is just one beautiful, medium-fat budget quota! All the colleagues who have argued for openness - I call on you to be aware of this before you vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U489	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U490	Good evening, colleagues! I'm listening to the opposition here and I can't really understand, colleagues. Well, it feels like you're sorry that Dagda will have such a heat. Let's... At least I'll give you something for Latgale! They'll refuse everywhere, businessmen will refuse everywhere, but the heat will be. Well, at least that's... Well, I mean, let's not come in here. The question is already clear to us all why it is and how it happens, but I personally do not regret it. I'm not a rookie. I think it's at the expense of Dougda... Well, they're gonna steal the least. I think that is quite clear. Since I will support this proposal and call for more frequent proposals to help both Latgale and, in particular, the education system, because we will not have enough with the heathen. There are major problems there, because we have the UKP at the wheel in the field of education, and there, even if this is a matter for Members' quotas, its problems are also reflected in public statements by Members. To conclude, I have to say, Mr Riekstins, the word "just" is written with two "k" instead of one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U491	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U492	Yes, colleagues! This proposal also puts me in a very difficult position, because I remember 12 very well. The beginning of the Saeima, when I led the Education, Culture and Science Commission. There was an Members' trip directly to Viķi to see how this building complex, which was still well maintained at that time... the problems with it. The problems arose when creating this new vocational education system in Latvia. At that point, it was thought that Viškis should perhaps be added to Malnava technique, perhaps in some other way even try to use it, but it was clear that intensive training in the Viškis was unlikely to be in itself. I am glad that Daugavpils Construction Technology has taken this place under its auspices and that something is happening there, and that those buildings that were really, let's not say, in a bad condition... in a condition that needed repairs, that with these buildings at last something is done and that the funds are available to it. Just like Dougdo. Well, if this high-efficiency boiler is needed there, obviously it is necessary. However, the reflections are due to the fact that all other vocational education centres in Latvia and all other municipalities subject to other types of educational institutions usually try to address such issues using European Union structural funds, using the energy efficiency programmes that are in these funds, planning these works ahead. But here, suddenly, we see that all this can be done in one year, 2021, not, let's say, broken down by years, and that it's being... Much is done from the funding that comes from the country.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U493	Name to Member Janis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U494	Hello, colleagues! Well, I have to say that in this process... I have also been involved in this technique for many years. We have gone, we have looked, and Mr Kazinovsky is very good in the course of things, Mrs Papule is very good in the course of things. Of course, I do not think that there will be such a wide-ranging debate on this issue. I am delighted, and I will also support this proposal, because on the Latgale side, when the money, as we have heard, is taken out of very large millions, then this small amount that has been given to this technique, one municipality, is a pure detail compared to the whole picture that is there. There are a lot of space in technology, it is possible to create a good basis. I would like to say thank you to Mrs Ostrovska, who has been talking about this issue for several years now, and I am pleased that there has finally been a positive decision and there will be technique, there will be development both in the education of young people, especially in the education of young people in rural areas, and also in the local district... local village development. So, colleagues, I call for this proposal to be supported. Good luck with this technique, management, kids! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U495	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U496	Yes, I also listened to my colleague, who sits on my left hand and has taught me a lot, as I have to say at the Saeima from the bar, so that Mrs Murniece does not stop me. I fully agree that we must support Latgale in particular. Even if this process is currently wrong - and it is wrong - it does not mean that, at a time when people, especially in Latgale, have difficulties with financial resources for one part and there are problems with education issues too... I'm just about kids, about education, and so build! It would be better from the beginning of the book, but maybe some kind of infrastructure will exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U497	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U498	Good evening, colleagues! I would, of course, like to thank Mrs Ostrovsk for taking over the so-called Viķis technique in her hands today, and it is high hope that this institution will continue to live again. While working at Daugavpils District Council, we had agreed that this branch, the former Višķi techniques, would be at Malnava College. But it was probably not the best option. The best option is, however, to be at a distance near Daugavpils Construction Technology. Whatever... who has tabled, but this proposal needs to be supported. And I would like to thank Mrs Ostrovsk once again for the development of her technique. So I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U499	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U500	Yes, colleagues, our discussion is turning into a specific boiler instead of looking systematically at the issue of taxation, the issue of budget adoption, in the context of the ministries' budgets, in the context of the responsibility of the responsible officials, political and political responsibility. It is quite interesting to see how one boiler actually caused a very intense discussion, not the total absence of a systemic approach in the proposed tax amendment package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U501	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U502	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say to those Members who think that this is a proposal from Members. It is not a proposal from Members; it is a proposal from the Cabinet, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U503	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U504	31. - the proposal from Member Papule. A total of 60 million shall be drawn from the contingency funds and assigned to higher education. But more about this same Member Papule will definitely tell you. Yes, it is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U505	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - the proposal tabled by Member Papule! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U506	32. - the Group's proposal. It also makes up to 60 million unexpected cases and gives it to higher education. Yes, now, it turns out, Member Papule will talk. And also... Yeah, and not just. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U507	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U508	Madam President, Well, this would be really, Mr Bondar, to be the application or request of the Cabinet of Ministers and probably other sources, but I hope that none of those present here or in the ministries of the Constitutional Court gave the opportunity to relax and with urgency to withdraw from the Law on Higher Education (as well as from the Law on Scientific Activities) the record of adequate funding for education and science, which has been incorporated there so that we could call Latvia a country which cares about development and growth. In the public space, as I mentioned, we have seen how Mr Bondara and Mr Reira point to each other, who should then do this shameful removal work, the norm of law should be removed, which confirms that Latvian universities have the opportunity to move towards international competition. I would like to remind you that competitiveness does not mean just an abstract indication that higher education teachers and students have to work more productively and innovatively, but that means Latvian universities with universities in other countries with competitive funding and modern infrastructure. Unfortunately, this also means full pay for educators at basic and secondary level, and also adequate funding for science. In addition, I would like to remind you that ambitious reforms are currently planned, and they also need to plan additional funding. In our country, one of the major mistakes is that we are planning reforms to save rather than really working the system. In other countries or other places, in fact, reforms mean additional funding so that all ideas can be fully revitalised, and in the future we get a well-ordered process, a more interesting process, and then maybe you can also ask for Top 500 or Top 100. I hope that this norm on the gradual increase in funding will not be removed from the Law on Higher Education - no one will have the courage to commit such a crime against Latvian intelligence.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U509	Thank you. Time to break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U510	Dear colleagues, we continue to work on the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023. Debate on proposal 32 We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U511	Yes, hello, dear colleagues! We actually have two questions. The first question is that of fulfilling the law as such, because I will remind you that this is one of the laws that the Saeima once adopted. Not the Saeima of this term, but yet it is a law passed in the Saeima that was not systematically executed. The second issue, of course, is higher education, university funding. Well, colleagues, let's start with the first question. Here we form a rather large foam with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which, if I understood correctly, designates the qualifying law as such a populist and empty, which should be abolished. But here, I understood, neither those who were the original initiators of this draft law, the applicants, nor the government, nor the existing ruling coalition, do not plan, at least have not announced (or maybe this time will do) the plans to submit a draft law or to withdraw it. That's why we get another pretty interesting situation, where this is the law and... or and when the government, the ruling coalition, plans to comply with this law at all. I think it would be good if any of the ruling coalitions, because it would be better - the Parliamentary Secretary of ISM - to give an answer to this question. Second. Colleagues, we still have a point in the government declaration that it is planned to make at least one of the universities on the Top 500 list. I will also remind you, colleagues, that, in the meantime, the University of Tartu is already on the list of Top 300 world's best universities. So here, with no funds, how does the government intend to achieve this?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U512	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U513	Colleagues, apart from what has already been discussed by colleagues, I believe that this is an extremely important proposal and should be supported and, in fact, a similar proposal should come from the government. Especially because the Saeima is currently looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, which provides for implementation of major reforms in higher education. If, indeed, the aim of the postulated process is quality higher education, competitive higher education, such funding would be very necessary, otherwise it really creates the impression that the essence of the whole reform is to take over power in higher education institutions, to strengthen political influence so that it can re-allocate funding that is not too large at present. The competition for their small money is so high that there is indeed a great temptation to share it with political influence. If funding were allocated to higher education, I think there would also be a much greater chance of improving quality in substance. I hope that... We do not see such funds in the medium-term budget for the implementation of the reform. I hope that this really will be one of the topics that the State and Government of Latvia will propose for the financing of the reconstruction fund, because then, I think, a really good story is formed that structural reform is being proposed and also additional funding from the European funds is being offered.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U514	Name to Member Edgar Kucin. ( Pause) You have been given a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U515	Good evening! Colleagues, almost a year ago, the new university law has been discussed and discussed in various offices. And with its entry into force, our universities are waiting for the ongoing reform. Higher education institutions are required to improve the quality of education, improve scientific work and increase the number of students. In my opinion, adequate funding for universities should also be considered when imposing requirements. Therefore, despite the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the inconsistency of Section 78(7) of the Law on Higher Education with Article 1 and the first sentence of Article 66 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, I still believe that the request of the trade union of Latvian education workers to grant funding for studies in universities founded by the state is justified and timely. Colleagues, I call on you to act courageously and to decide on an increase in funding for higher education and scientific activities. This would strengthen the belief that Latvia could become a more competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based country. I call for support for the proposal of the Group of the Regions and for the necessary funding to be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U516	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U517	Thank you. I hope, however, that this provision will not be removed from the highest... The University Law will not be removed from the Law on Scientific Activities, because the new generation is much more demanding than we were, and at this point their desire to learn, to achieve their goals is much bigger and more important. And so I call for support for the proposal to allocate funding of 60 million next year's budget to meet the requirements of Section 78(7) of the Law on Higher Education, and so we are showing our attitude towards or on higher education and also showing that it has indeed always been a priority. Well, to be honest, the coalition should already have supported higher education, because it is the colleagues of THE NEW Unity who are driving the major reforms. The reform will also need funding in the medium-term budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U518	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. ( Pause) We can't hear you. We can't hear you! ( Pause) I can't hear it. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U519	Colleagues! I hope that, with one minute, Mr Znotiņš will be enough to put his IT systems in order. So while he... There is a question for Mr. Znotiņš. So the government has a plan to achieve at least one Latvian university in Top 500 during this government. The comparison is with the University of Tartu. The budget of Tartu University is twice the budget of the University of Latvia and three times the budget of Riga Technical University. I think... You think just introducing university councils... Well, I don't think it's going to solve this top 500 issue. And I'll remind you, the University of Tartu is already at Top 300 in the world, not Top 500. Question to Mr Znotiņš: well, how do you intend to comply with this government declaration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U520	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. We can't hear you. Mr. Znotins, we can't hear you. We can't hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U521	Can you hear it now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U522	Now you can.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U523	Can you hear it now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U524	You can hear me. Talk to me!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U525	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Sorry, technical problems with your computer. I must say that yes, of course, the reform of the higher education administration is a very important part of the overall development of the Latvian economy and Latvian society and, of course, resources must be provided for this. The Ministry of Education and Science has rather serious resources and they are in the budget of the European Recovery Fund, say, put... which is thus designed for universities to meet certain regulatory, specific criteria so that they can grow up so that they can strengthen their research and scientific staff and also contribute to their further development, and also to enter, perhaps, these ratings in higher places than they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U526	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U527	32. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U528	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U529	33. - The proposal by Member Evija Papule. Return money from unforeseen cases and return it to higher education. But Member Papale will tell you more about what is at the heart of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U530	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U531	Madam President, Colleagues! Yes, this proposal and several future proposals have been made in cooperation with the Latvian Student Association. It is clear that currently, due to the community and the exceptional situation, the amount of grants is very important. At first, it may seem like a social problem or a social situation problem, but in the end it may become a completely different problem. It's not a secret that students... and it is students who are most often able to supplement their living lives and have been able to supplement them by working in the catering and tourism sector. These industries are now closed, in fact they don't work, so students have... or, more precisely, there is no additional possibility of obtaining financial resources. At this point in time, the scholarship becomes one of the main livelihoods. But at the same time, we hear - in mid-November, there was a very large discussion about what, and how, suddenly, we can no longer guarantee student and student credit. Yes, the problem has now been solved in the form of appropriations, but this does not mean that such problems may not arise yet. Therefore, it would probably be more stable if there were a larger grant of about EUR 200 for students from higher education institutions, including college students, and it would also be good to increase this for students in vocational education. But the proposal is about higher education. Why did I say that the social problem could grow into another problem - a national one? Because in fact, training allows students to choose higher education institutions and additives in countries where studies are free of charge. This means that we risk losing students and losing future scientists. Consequently, this proposal would be acceptable, however justified by a chapter in the budget, if the Ministry of Education and Science could not place it in the budget as an increase in the grant.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U532	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U533	Colleagues! I just wanted to remind you that the Ministry of Education and Science both increased the number of grant recipients for this year, as well as raised the amount that it never had before for students to grant, with the possibility to work... Or by adding to this scholarship, work as well as universities, say, collective, work as a... Support for scientific staff or the university administration... which also gives students the opportunity to earn in these times and thus to survive this period of crisis. Also, when it comes to access to state-guaranteed studies, the coalition has improved the conditions for access to state-guaranteed study loans. This year, too, the Ministry of Education and Science has found additional money to finance those students who had applied for but who had not received enough money. So much joy for it. Indeed, there has not been such ambitious support for students as this year, at least for the last 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U534	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U535	It is particularly pleased that there is more support than every year, I think there is no reason, because this year there is a special situation and special circumstances. Support must be, simply be much greater than in a normal situation where students can really work themselves, and the possibilities, as Mrs Papule has already mentioned, are directly denied this year with restrictions and a ban on working in the hospitality and catering sector, where students have worked and can be combined with a study work. But I... The only reason I did, however, and wanted to talk about this proposal is that without denying that the Ministry of Education and Science has organised some support and tried to find solutions... Then I remember very well the discussion in spring, at a time when Mrs Papules had put forward for the first time, a whole package of proposals, one of which was similar to this one. Then the coalition rejected these proposals with Mr Znotiņš' argument that the package, the support that the Ministry of Education and Science is preparing, would be much better than the proposals made by Mrs Papule. That is why, however, I would like to hold on to the word and then put much better support to provide, not just because the opposition has put forward proposals, we reject, make an empty promise and then fail to do so. With all due respect for the proposal made, but then you gave your word that there would be a much better proposal... Which one you haven't kept.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U536	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U537	Once again, this proposal has been created again in cooperation with the Latvian Students' Association. So students have not received promises. You promised in spring and did not provide any support to students throughout the summer, even though in summer students had much less opportunities to work and earn, and earn not only to replace scholarships, but also perhaps not to take credit. You don't say any words that you've had problems with students... with study and student credits. In fact, the UKP intellectuals' experience, the narcissians' experience is to give with one hand, but with the other take back: run - let's put on the barriers! It is not fair for students to give scholarships from the European Structural Funds and, at the same time, with huge conditions - only to those who can work in universities. Everyone can never. Look at how many thousands of students you have. Everyone will not be able to work at Latvian universities. I therefore call for support for the proposal and not for it, and for it not to be said what is wrong.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U538	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U539	Despite this harsh and well-founded debate, 33. - Mrs Papule's proposal is not supported by the Commission. I'm calling...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U540	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - the proposal tabled by Member Papule! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 55, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U541	Also 34. - The proposal by Member Evija Papule. Takes money from unforeseen events and gives it to the higher education sector. This proposal, too, does not constitute support within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U542	In the debate, the name of the Member, Evia Papule, will be discussed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U543	Madam President, colleagues. You must have noticed that you gave money to the Dagda Catholic, and not as much as you need teachers or assistants in higher education. I know that IZM promised it again that it would be solved or that it had already been solved, but you did not find the few hundred thousand needed to have the same pay for assistants in universities as the minimum rate for educators. You found something from lunch money. At this point, although assistants, becoming later lecturers, doctors, run and promote science, you could already give the start money. I am not saying that the work of teachers is comparable and that comparison with university assistants is necessary. They are two different. I have worked in both areas and I can assure you that. But in every case, assistants who are to some extent the basis of higher education, who are reading many lectures, which now also provide distance learning in a much higher load than professors (with science, of course, top priority), do not get as much as teachers, well, that is to say, not forgiven. In this respect, you can certainly blame all those who have previously worked in higher education, perhaps for all 30 years, but that is not the story. If you have already found the opportunity to jump and be proud of your recordable success for 10 years in higher education, then write down the success - and a reasonable success - also on equalising the salaries of university assistants to the lowest salary rate for teachers. Please be proud of something real, not of what you are telling yourself in the mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U544	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U545	Yes, colleagues! As any general has ever been a soldier or at least served at one of the lowest levels of service, any professor is likely to have been an assistant at the time - the lowest academic position. These are the people who really carry enough academic workload, but probably rare of you, colleagues of the Saeima, are the perception of the lowest salary rate for assistants in Latvia. Well, I'll name these figures. In addition, it's interesting that in colleges these... where there are similar positions, these lower wages... Wages are even higher than those established in universities. So in university, the assistant's minimum salary is 641 euros, in college - 658 euros. I must also mention lecturers who are people who usually have at least three years of experience. The minimum rates of pay for lecturers are currently 805 in university, 823 in college. In view of the fact that the average salary in Latvia has been over a thousand euros for some time, I think this is an issue that, quite rightly, the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union is moving as a matter of urgency, so that we can attract all compatible people to university work so that they can be the ones who will teach students in the years to come, and that they also have the opportunity to build their own... not only to support your career but also to support your family. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U546	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U547	I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U548	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U549	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the rather interesting materials of the Ministry of Education and Science, which the Ministry itself has disseminated about what the actual income is for those working at the Academy... both actual income, taking into account not only the main job but also additional jobs, how many jobs a person is working from assistants to professors. So we, fellow Members, find that on average, a professor who needs an idea, so that, fully, more than 100 percent of his time devoted to academic work, I understand, works at 1.8 jobs, actually two jobs. But an assistant, colleagues, - he works on average in 2.8 workplaces. That's three jobs. So, in other words, it's getting together -- well, how really is this academic assistant actually an assistant? That is, we get the opposite of what we pay or how much we pay. But what's the effect, colleagues? The consequences are that I think it would be desirable for the Ministry of Education and Science to explore what is happening with, well, Latvia's best school... Well, let's take some of the 10-20 best schools with the graduates of this school. Where do they study, or which universities do they choose to continue? I think the Ministry of Education and Science will discover that a lot of students... I'm not going to think that at the best schools, like Gymnasium One... I think it could be close to 80-90 percent that they choose...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U550	The name to Member Rainis... Oh, I am sorry, the times of the debate were united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U551	... study abroad. And those of them who, for example, continue, learn exactly as academics and become future... directly chooses their career as an academic, then when they complete, for example, a doctoral degree, they pay for such a... Well, the international standard is at least two thousand euros per hand. What is in Latvia - we see that the actual is 920, about a thousand euros, which is only half of it. Clearly, many of these people will not return and this will continue to degrade our academic system and universities. As a result, colleagues will have and will have very far-reaching consequences for this system that has been launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U552	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U553	Yes, colleagues, well, the previous speakers, particularly Mrs Papule, are clearly misleading people by speculating on data. This year the Ministry of Education and Science has also raised a minimum salary for professors, lecturers and assistants. In this year's budget, the Ministry of Education and Science has allocated an additional EUR 7 million. As well as the above-mentioned question on the... So it's about study grants. It was the Latvian Students' Association that said in principle thank you for the fact that this year for the first time the minimum student grant has been increased from EUR 99.6 to EUR 200, and the additional 743 students receive these grants, so much more than in previous years. Since I will call on you to really choose perhaps expressions, not to be rude and indecent in the debate in the Saeima, especially Mrs Papule, to apply this, and not to deceive people with really false data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U554	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U555	To debate, Mr. Znotiņš, you know only with yourself and in the mirror at any time. And you should probably read a Latvian literary dictionary to see what are different and at what times they are or are not. But in any case, if we talk about the salaries of assistants that we are talking about, then in fact, I did not mention to you the data that you could dispute, and you could say this to your millions of sources, which are the sources that you give, because every moment we are talking about the distribution of the state budget. Perhaps I would like to hear better from the ISM Parliamentary Secretary about how to build a new generation of speakers. We talk about demographic problems every moment, and they really affect the environment of higher education teachers. Clearly, the arrival of young people must be supported. Thus, in any case, the increase in the remuneration of assistants, which is equal to the minimum rate of teachers, is not what to be proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U556	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U557	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that 34. - the proposal of Member Papule was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U558	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - The proposal from Member Papule! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 53, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U559	Colleagues, 35. - the Group's proposal. Identical to the previous proposal from Member Papule.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U560	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U561	Dear colleagues, Mr. Znotiņš in particular! I call on you to evaluate your statements very carefully, which you have dedicated to the previous speakers. So if you are blaming them that they deceive people and society, please be so kind as to say specifically what are the numbers with which you or the public have been misled. I have read to you data from the Ministry of Education and Science, you may have heard about such a ministry, about data about the remuneration of assistants and professors. Then, you see, it turns out that the ministry itself deceives the public with some false figures. That's exactly how it works, Mr. Znotins! Therefore, I really call on you to appreciate very carefully what you are saying. There's no one here, I don't know, flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U562	Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U563	Yes, colleagues! In order for universities to be able to achieve their objectives, it is essential that they also have qualified and knowledgeable specialists. According to the Law on Higher Education, academic staff of the higher education institution, consisting of professors, associate professors, professors, leading researchers, lecturers, researchers and assistants, may perform scientific research, artistic creative work and participate in the education of students. All of them are elected. And in order to be elected as an assistant, the candidate must have - attention! - with a doctoral or master degree. Unfortunately, this norm causes a lot of problems for universities, and the current reality is that it is difficult for universities to attract highly qualified and prospective specialists for assistant positions, because the lower salary rate for assistant positions is lower than the general education teacher's salary rate, which is not at all great either. And in this case, colleagues, that is not clear. With regard to the future of higher education and science, such discriminatory practices should not continue. I call for this injustice to be eliminated and for additional funding to be provided of EUR 905 000 from unforeseen funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U564	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U565	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that 35. - the Group's proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U566	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U567	Colleagues! 36. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. Return to Latvenergo dividends to give money to universities - no less, no more than 60 million. The Commission was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U568	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U569	Colleagues! 37. - also the Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. Also frigates for dividends from Latvenergo. Funding for scientists, science. The Commission was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U570	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U571	Yes, colleagues! Political force KPV LV promised to cancel the OIC. This has not been done, instead it is planned to shift money from one country's energy pocket to another, in fact doing so at the expense of Latvenergo dividends. Our proposal is different. If indeed Latvenergo can lead such a large amount to the state budget, then it can be used productively and invested in scientific development. On the other hand, the mandatory procurement components should be reduced by reinforcing controls and eliminating licences for operators that may fail to comply with their obligations under the State. This is also a reminder once again of the fact that science needs additional funding, and this, in my opinion, would also be a very good way of maintaining consumption by providing sufficient funding for the public sector. This argument is very often used by government colleagues and coalition Members when they talk about increasing civil servants' salaries, that nothing should be reduced, on the contrary, because the level of consumption for heating the economy needs to be maintained, often forgetting that it would also be equally important to ensure that private sector workers can shop and warm the economy. But again, I would also like to emphasise that this is actually the second area. If the national budget cannot afford substantial funding for science in the short term, then it is absolutely imperative to make proposals for the European Union-funded rehabilitation fund's 'Science as a axis' programme. I think that it will be easy to justify why such investments are necessary, just hope that, apart from the fact that the government will indeed also offer this direction as funding from the fund, it will also be more sensible to use than currently funded by the specific cooperative research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U572	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U573	Madam President, colleagues. Yes, this Law on Scientific Activities is, to a certain extent, also related not only to the Law on Higher Education, but also to the decision of the Constitutional Court. And so I very much hope that from this law, too, none of the members of the coalition, so to say, will have the hand to delete the provision on guaranteed increases in public funding, respectively, every year. For every time we are addressed by the Prime Minister, every time we are addressed by the President of Latvia, it is stressed that science is at the heart of economic development and growth, that economic growth is undoubtedly at the heart of every person's well-being, but at the same time, the Dagda Catholic has money, there is money for some other things, but for scientific development it is not, it is not. I very much hope that the Parliamentary Secretary of the ISM will also increase with the financial support that the science has received. Yes, of course, resources have been found in the European funds, additional funding has been found for community studies and such things, but at the same time there is no stable funding and, of course, Mr Znotiņš cannot be blamed there. But, however, once it is proud of success, it would not be bad if even one gram of a steady increase in funding for science appeared in the state budget. We know that young scientists are talking about such necessity, we know that increasing scientific opportunities with financial resources from the state budget would undoubtedly be a good sign for people to choose their career as a scientist (at the moment it is much more possible to work in international groups), staying in Latvia, working and promoting the development of Latvian science. So that would be happy to hear the pride of this one too. However, even a small grain increase would not be a bad thing to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U574	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U575	Yes, without questioning the need for an increase in science in the budget base... It's absolutely... I fully join and agree with this. This year, too, this was one of the main priorities of the budget requested by the Ministry of Education and Science. However, it must be said, of course, that the situation of the community is doing its own. Two of the requests were therefore supported by the Ministry of Education and Science, and in this case I must say that they are the most important. The state budget increased teachers, educators and salaries. The salaries of academic staff for university teachers were also increased. So that these were the only, let us say, new proposals that were supported, of course, logically understanding also the budget deficit that has developed this year... and, consequently, the budgetary options. But apart from this, of course, it should be noted that the Ministry of Education and Science directed five million more specifically to science, scientific research. Then, of course, the renewal of scientific and academic staff mentioned above is also a very important factor. In turn, the new model of doctoral funding should be mentioned, which provides in principle that future doctoral grants will amount to 1000 euros per month, which is also, in principle, an unprecedented amount in the history of Latvia. With this investment, it is in human capital that we can certainly build the capacity of our academic staff and also contribute to its renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U576	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U577	The subject of insufficient funding for science is already a chronic topic in the process of adopting the state budget. And probably this is Latvia's biggest problem... and the Latvian Government, the recent government... and here I am talking about all governments in at least the last 20 years... The problem has been that, at the time when we came up with access to the European Union's structural funds, we have always tried to take part of the funding needed for science from there and to replace to some extent the money that the state itself, as a stable funding, should be involved in the financing of science. And the consequences are rather sad. The consequences are that scientific funding does not have the size to ensure stability and sustainability. Here we can once again look at our northern neighbours, the Estonians, who have been able to raise enough of the funding needed for research and development directly from the national budget for many years. International research shows the best situation in Latvia – such as the international competitiveness report and the global business survey, where all... In both large studies, where more than 100 countries are covered, Latvia is in a global context well if somewhere around the middle. But if we look at the points that we get in these researches, then those points we have the whole lighthouses - and the whole lighthouses in it means that currently the amount of Latvian funding for science and research is 0.4 percent of gross domestic product. It should be at least three percent... to which at least a percentage would have to come from the state budget. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U578	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U579	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. Yes, we are really talking at the moment about the proposal that public funding for science comes from the state budget. And in fact, reservations about the fact that for the first time there is a salary norm for educators implemented... No, it's not about this, because 50 euro for educators is another thing. At this point, there is a talk about science, and in fact, too, the fact that the teachers, Mr Kariņš, were allowed to give you an increase of EUR 50 according to the timetable is not a personal victory. Rather, I would ask how it will be possible to use it from other ministries this year... We know that there are programmes, national research programmes and also other ministries, where strategic documents were written at the time, that each ministry provides at least EUR 2 million in funding for scientific or research activities. What's up with this? Because it is now clear that the Ministry of Education and Science alone cannot provide this, but there are budgets of other ministries, and the interests of other ministries can be explored.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U580	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U581	Dear colleagues, Well, of course - yes. It is true that Mr Znotiņš says that for the coming year, the Ministry of Education and Science will be given a much greater amount of funding - both for the same professors, for scientific staff, if I am not mistaken, about five million national research programmes. But the question is, is it achieving the goal? Of course, the very first question is: what is the aim? If we defined the goal that it is an internationally competitive system of education, higher education, then we colleagues are not even close to achieving this goal because, unfortunately, or... Fortunately, we are in that single European Union scientific space. Those who receive their higher education, such as a doctorate, at international level... medium level, so those who... as I said, roughly speaking, they claim a starting pay as a docent for around two thousand euros. Well, definitely not less than 1500. And these people have opportunities to accept job offers in Germany, Ireland, Great Britain, in fact, worldwide. So from the fact that we docent this lowest rate will not be 980, as it was at the beginning of this year, but 1100... 1123... well, it is, of course, better than it was before, but basically these issues are not being dealt with. So I think, colleagues, that we should not be satisfied that, here, the Ministry of Education and Science has got, well, another bit more. And that's it. The objectives must not, by their very nature,...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U582	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U583	Colleagues! Next year we will start with 3.9 percent of the budget deficit and the largest external debt in Latvia's history. There's an explanation for that. What is to be understood is the greater the deficit at the moment, the higher the taxes will have to be paid tomorrow unless the government and the Saeima offer a solution how we can activate the economy and earn its money. Unfortunately, this budget, as well as the medium-term budget as a whole, does not offer such a vision. The only sectors that are supported are... Well, in fact, the only sector that is being supported is construction. And, colleagues, with the heating of the construction sector alone, we will not put the economy on our feet. That is why this is the moment when there is a further argument about why we need to invest in science. It is an opportunity to earn, create added value and also their budget deficit... if not in the following year, the following year, then delete at least after a few years. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U584	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U585	I remember the fact that in the spring, half a million were handed out with a light hand to all kinds of fictitious studies on the comma. We haven't seen any research results, and we see ourselves as our Prime Minister at this time... What he's talking about on TV and so on. This is about science talking about how science is funded this year. It was funded (in feet) for non-cooperative studies and no results. All the problem with the financing of science lies in the same place as any other non-funded cases of Latvia. And the problem is that in Latvia the budget... In the budget debate, too, we are talking about just over a hundred million how to share them. We are not talking at all about the budgetary base. Never. It is a priori indisputable, it must never be changed. That is not true. As soon as we start talking about the budgetary base and cuts in public expenditure, we will have money, not just for science, not only for education, but also for health and other areas as well. This is the whole problem. Money would, in principle, be enough if we reviewed the proportion of expenditure that we do not want to review at all. That's why I'm calling... It is clear this year that it will be approved, but I call on people in the future to remember that if a state, government and power do not review the budgetary base, this means that they do not want any changes in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U586	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U587	Good evening, honourable colleagues! I'm listening to the debate, and in fact I don't even know... I am very, very, very grateful to Mr Wuzana, who, I think, the only one of all the speakers has pointed out that this is not a single problem that has suddenly appeared now about under-funding for science and that it is a long-term matter. But what really surprises me is that the former Minister of Finance, who we know is the main money-sharingr in the country, comes and criticises. The fact that a former minister of education says, give me the money! But, dear, you know very well that money needs to be earned. And what Aldis Gobzem has just said about some fake research and absolutely insufficient funding... I very much hope that you will meet last year... with, in my opinion, at the end of one of the largest additional funding directly for science. And, of course, the money in education, the money in science, the money in research - that is the key to the development of any country. But now come here, forgive me, especially those who have been in power, led the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, shared the money in the country, and now say - give it, give it!Is that so? Show that inexhaustible pot you can take it from, and maybe it's gonna happen. But, well, some kind of criticism also has to be compared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U588	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U589	Reflecting on what Mrs Muižniece said, I would just like to remind you that your party leader, Mr Bordan, has been the Parliamentary Secretary of Prime Minister Dombrovskis, and in politics comes from the times of “Latvia’s way” and he is also responsible for what has happened in Latvian science with regard to the absence of funding. Let us not forget that he is one of the oldest politicians in politics in Latvia. And he's in charge of what happened. But, on the subject of the society's research, Mrs. Muižniece, to say, the only study that has been researched what was shown there... has been studied... The public sector interviewed employees (for example in public administration) who said that they were satisfied with the government. It was the only research where it seemed to me to have been used. We haven't seen anyone else.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U590	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U591	Dear colleagues, Ma'am! Now in two years' time, the ruling coalition should know that decisions on granting or not funding are not taken by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance and the holder of the wallet. Decisions are taken by the coalition of political forces, and you are part of this coalition. Your decisions therefore reflect your political priorities. Well, for example... at least in public space it sounds like one of the main political priorities of your strength is Liepaja prison apparently. Someone has to do with education, science or money - that is a good question. One of your party ministers is responsible for transit, and we are talking about making money. What is happening in the transit sector? How is the money now being earned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U592	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U593	Yeah, thank you. Reflecting also on earning and income. Yes, indeed, it is the New Conservative Party, including the Minister for Justice, who is responsible for the inclusion of free port authorities... has been on a special list since last year thanks to the activities of your political leaders. And it was this moment that had an impact on the amount of budget revenue. It has to be understood that the amount of budgetary income was greatly affected by the possibility of not providing education in foreign languages, which dropped by about 25 million euros per year in budget income. The ‘capital repair’ also has its own price. This cost about 50 million per year from taxes on the budget. In general, if we go through both capital repairs and education... I am unable to present in higher education institutions in foreign languages, as well as the inclusion of free ports on the blacklist, as well as the story of transit failure, all of which leads to minus. And only giving money to science and people could ensure different people's development and also access to education, science, entrepreneurship and perhaps politics after some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U594	The name of the Member Anita Muižniece for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U595	Yes, good evening, colleagues, again! Reflecting on, perhaps on the reflections I have said, I hope that Mrs Švekova remembers, as Shadurski brought urgent amendments to the third reading when he was a minister for education and science, which prevented students from studying in foreign languages. So that probably there is absolutely no claim against the New Conservative Party. It is just as I hope that Mr Dombrovskis does not pretend and knows very well that, even when the Ministry is setting priorities, it is the Ministry of Finance that is the key to giving money or not giving it. Finally, so briefly on what Mr Gobzem said. Thank God for having been in politics for so long. And I very much hope that you will not return to the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U596	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U597	For hope and reality and for the future... The time will show which hopes and what politicians will be fulfilled, and I hope that voters are and will be wise enough to distinguish between demagogy and works, the results from fairy tales, and will also understand which politicians, what action unfortunately the economic situation is, and which politicians have taken such or such decisions. Once again, it is true that the Ministry of Finance is only the manager, not the one who determines who holds his wallet and account, and the other parties involved are those who are either able to justify their needs and convince whether they are unable. It is obvious that the Ministry of Education and Science is unable to do it in sufficient quality.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U598	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U599	Yes, colleagues! If we talk about funding, about the wallet holders, then here you have to say that for one moment you think that the wallet holder is absolutely inviolable, and then for the other moment you say that, well, those "3 × 500" you could introduce if that wallet holder were much more flexible, you don't at all... you cannot achieve this. This is the mountain of glass you can't put on because of its failure. This funding. I understand that it is the funding provided by the European Union, so that it is not what you are saying now about it, let us say, the owner of the wallet, so that you are still trying, a little bit bit, to attribute to yourself foreign laurels. And to Mrs. Muižniece for Mr. Bordan... Yes, Mr Bordan is really, as you say, very long in politics, but then it happens that Mr Bordan is probably responsible, according to your logic, for all the disasters that you are currently trying to combat. It's your logic. So that I am calling for this proposal to be supported, and I am calling for a real thought to be given to what you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U600	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U601	Yes, science and innovation - this has been a topic that I have been trying to keep hot since the very beginnings. Then I remember when there was this success story that we had made, I tried to explain that, in fact, if we wanted a success story, then we should base it on science and innovation. Then I was totally like a caller in the desert. The rulers did not understand this, they had their “success story”, with their fiscal beauty, and considered that it would be enough to be just fiscally beautiful and love us by rich investors, come and get married, and we will be all here. As a result, we simply collapsed, continued to ruin our economy. At the moment, unfortunately, hearing that, now, this rhetoric has appeared, that however, no, innovation is important, science is important... But unfortunately, it's in empty slogans. There is no understanding. It is simply phenomenal. It is very good that the Members of the ruling coalition are applying for a debate and are showing their understanding of this situation. As for innovation, to say that you see, we've raised salaries for teachers, so we're all going to be here... Johaidi, well, it's just... more phenomenal incompetentness than... in general on this process as such. On the other hand, if we talk about where to take money, I can tell you where you can very simply find entos millions. That is not to budget money for the olicists to pay, but instead, while you have been in power for these two years, you could have done a real deal with this system. These are the enti-millions that would be iconised, which should not be paid, and then the OIC should not pay for this compensation from the Latvenergo dividend. That's enti million. Instead, what are you doing? You will continue to cover these frauds. Now... The budget debate will come to an end immediately, and the first question in the next sitting will be the OIC request, where you will have the opportunity to support the request, where we are, as once, talking about benchmarks that are not developed. That would cut costs for millions of ents... the overcompensation mechanism, which is now being blocked. Let us look at the UK, as you will vote in favour of this request! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U602	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U603	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that 37. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal was not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, despite a wide-ranging debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U604	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U605	38. - the proposal from Member Papule. It is foreseen that funds will be taken back from unforeseen events and scholarships given to students. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U606	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U607	Madam President, colleagues. This is a follow-up to the debate on the need for students to increase their scholarship. This is a concrete proposal to increase the scholarship for students in college. As we know, this is a first level higher education, and it is these professionals who have completed college study programmes who are the most demanded of employers on the labour market. Why? Because these people know not only theoretically, but also practical how to do things. I don't want to contrast with university level two graduates who, of course, have other tasks, and yet college graduates... college programs are popular all over the world and are becoming increasingly popular. Young people and those people who reskill are increasingly choosing these shorter ones... in time... study in terms of shorter time programmes, not only because time is saved, but also because it is easy to find jobs at once. In fact, the students of college are addressed by employers already in the second year, and in their first practices they already find a job, by the way, in all fields, not only in construction, but also in culture and many other areas. That would be just natural... Although the new university reform has eliminated colleges as institutions, the programmes are still ongoing. They are likely to be implemented by higher education institutions, and college programmes will remain, and these first level programmes will remain. Hopefully, the students will continue to apply. But this requires a scholarship, and these students have now lost the opportunity to work in a job to supplement their budget. I call for support, now that we are thinking about the labour market, whatever the situation of the community is, i.e. a stop or subsidies. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U608	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U609	Dear colleagues, Well, after a few previous speeches... I have just understood that, obviously, at least some, probably coalitions, Members do not quite understand how decisions are made in our country. It seems that some believe that the Minister of Finance in the government, then perhaps in the country at all, is the main, deciding person, who makes decisions, says where to finance what can be financed and what cannot be financed. Colleagues, that is absolutely not the case. The Government shall take its decisions by a majority. If a finance minister or Prime Minister does not belong to this majority or is in a minority, this decision can be taken, even though the finance minister does not support it, is 'no' - as, for example, yesterday, colleagues, Prime Minister could not say what his supposedly led government would do because he did not know what the majority would decide or would not decide. And so that's the decision, colleagues, was made today, because today is the so-called cooperation... a meeting of the coalition council. And tomorrow the government is just going to do what today...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U610	On the proposal, please! Let us go back to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U611	But, Madam President, obviously, if some colleagues...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U612	Let us go back to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U613	... Don't understand how those things work, they can...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U614	Inciting... Raising Members - sometime at the coffee in your individual talks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U615	It could be thought that if the Finance Minister said no, then this proposal should not be supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U616	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U617	Yes, colleagues! I also call for this proposal to be supported and for it to have the resources in the existing budgetary framework. But I would also like to comment, however, because this is in the context of this and many other proposals that the opposition has put forward and that require additional budgetary resources, including support for higher education and science. The Minister of Finance is a person who aligns the wishes of all coalition partners, which are usually very much, with budgetary opportunities. This is the first year in the last many years, when in fact the State of Latvia has the opportunity to depart from very strict fiscal discipline and spend more than usual. Therefore, to me too, my colleagues, with all the experience of my Minister of Finance, it is not understandable how we can not find funding for such a half-millionth event, how we can not find funding for science and higher education at a time when the government decides to support the construction of prisons at a time of crisis when the government decides to invest 286 million in airBaltic when the government decided for many million... the transfer of many million from the Latvenergo dividend to the OIC financing. It's not clear to me. Moreover, another source of funding, colleagues, where perhaps the Ministry of Education and Science should be much more active in joint work next year, is a review of expenditure. During the crisis, you have only managed to channel 13 million to increasing the overall fiscal space. 13! Are you serious?Oh, no, no,
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U618	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U619	Thank you. Well, they didn't mention one of the facts that the Ministry of Education and Science has also shown by collecting its first data on the monitoring of higher education and its connection with the selected jobs and, more importantly, with the higher paid jobs. It was the graduates of colleges who (compared to the graduates of the second level or universities) entered or chose much more paid jobs. And it shows that it should not be necessary to close colleges, as it now looks, but on the contrary - to develop this form of education and the way both for older people who want to re-skill and, of course, for young people who complete grade 9 or 12. For them now, Latvian IZM data show that there is an opportunity to get a higher paid job than perhaps those who have studied in bachelor's and master's programmes. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U620	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U621	I am very brief, two sentences, reflecting on what was said by Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. The first thing... and what Dana Reizniece–Ozola said. So the first thing. It is clear why science does not exist, why prison has and why is there everywhere else. Science can't... There's nothing and something like that. That's why we don't. That's the first thing. Secondly, the last thing in this speech (I will be in 30 seconds more) is the following: in response to the remark made by and made to Mr Dombrovskis, I would like to say that it is the training of their Members. Mrs. Moorier's first should be...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U622	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U623	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that 38. - the proposal of Member Papule was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U624	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - The proposal from Member Papule! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U625	Colleagues, next - 39. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. Asks you to give a real ambassador to the European Commission for a seat, which costs 45 000. In spite of everything, this proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U626	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U627	Yes, colleagues! It is a proposal to devote EUR 45 thousand by creating an additional one-person function at the European Commission's mission, the so-called 'Scientic Ambassador', which could help to lobbying in a positive sense in the sense of the word, or defend the interests of the Latvian scientific sector. We know that, to a large extent, funding for science will also be allocated to centralised programmes in the next programming period. It is very important that we have someone who follows it, follows the rules, fights for details in the regulations so that our scientific institutes and higher education institutions can take part in the competitions, form consortia and get support from them. This is the experience of the neighbouring countries, and this obviously also gives us a planned return. Therefore, the trade union initiative was also to create such a place from Latvia. This does not require much money. I am absolutely convinced that this would be a much better investment than every year for the next three years the LIAA will invest EUR 1.3 million in strengthening the national image. We offer it as a source of funding for this important measure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U628	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U629	As I said, on behalf of the Commission, the 39th proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U630	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U631	40. - the proposal from Member Papule. In fact, again, there is a need to shift the funds from unforeseen events to science. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U632	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U633	Thank you, Madam President, colleagues. Although there have been discussions about this, however, this proposal comes from the trade union of Latvian education and science workers for a year, so this organisation cannot be accused that it only requires funds, but does not talk about development. That's because science... scientists are also in this trade union. But I wanted to give one other example to the coalition at the moment. We know you're working on higher education right now... Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. And one of the goals is to link higher education to science, which is in itself understandable, but, well, write the bill now so that... it is connected. This also leads to changes in the distribution of types of universities and universities. Scientific universities are being set up, whose main goal is the main goal! - will be scientific. Of course, there will be a transition period and processes, but in any case, what kind of money will these scientific universities be able to carry out scientific activities so that they can reach the current objective of the government declaration - the ranking of universities in Top 500? Or even now we are talking about a higher place. What kind of funding, if we are well aware (at least those people who have worked independently in education, how they are valued by young people... As a rule, one of the criteria for assessing and getting to Top 500 is precisely the amount of funding, i.e. the budget of the higher education institution, respectively. If, in this case, the budget does not meet the criticisms and does not meet the criticisms for the next two or three years, if we are talking about the medium-term budget, then in fact, the government declaration... By voting against this proposal, you say: "No, we lied in the government declaration. We were populists, and we don't need that at all."
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U634	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U635	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that 40. - the proposal of Member Papule was not supported. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U636	Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - The proposal from Member Papule! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U637	41. - the Group's proposal. Same for the previous - 40. - the proposal of Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U638	(Sound rupture) ... Edgar Kucin. We can't hear you, Mr. Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U639	Do you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U640	Now we hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U641	Yeah, colleagues. I would like to remind you that the Saeima is a legislative power. We need to make sure that the laws adopted are put into practice. And in the proposed draft budget, both the Cabinet of Ministers and colleagues from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission - most of them - have forgotten that the second paragraph of Section 33 of the Law on Scientific Activities is still valid. And it states that until public funding for scientific activities reaches at least one per cent of gross domestic product, an annual increase in funding for scientific activities - not less than 0,15 per cent of gross domestic product - is required in the budget. As much as one percent of this is still far from us, we will be responsible for lawmakers and we will comply with the law. I call for support for the Group's proposal and for the necessary funding to be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U642	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U643	Thank you. It would be nice if, of course, the coalition or, accordingly, the intellectuals involved in this debate on science, who have always said that they will talk about higher education, but in any case, if it is obvious at this point that the Ministry of Education and Science needs additional support, because there is not enough capacity to achieve the objective set in the government declaration of increasing scientific funding or, more precisely, getting to top 500, then, in fact, I must say again, perhaps part of the functions, especially if this is linked to economic growth... As we know, science is at the heart of economic growth and ensuring the well-being of society, thus generating income, then perhaps part of such science... Scientific support functions may be offered by the Ministry of Finance or most likely by the Ministry of Economics. That is why I also mentioned, in one of the previous times, the research programmes under the responsibility of other ministries. In fact, after legislation, other ministries need to implement such research programmes and invest their budget closer to scientific development. Well, it would perhaps facilitate not only the division of functions, but would ensure that the Ministry of Economics is indeed responsible for economic development and growth in the light of scientific funding. It is possible that there the Minister or Minister has at that time more capacity and greater influence on his colleagues in the government to comply with a self-made and self-written government declaration. I call for this proposal to be supported. I say again, that's... Don't be jealous - you can be proud of the results in a year's time. Don't be jealous of the one who has tabled it, because basically those proposals are now carefully and consistently submitted by the trade union from year to year, which also follows these issues. Please support or change responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U644	The name to Member Edgar Kucin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U645	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues, neither the Ministry of Education and Science nor the Ministry of Justice even tried to initiate the procedure for repealing Section 33, second paragraph, of the Law on Scientific Activities. I would like to remind you that in this case it is these two ministries that are responsible for organising and coordinating the implementation of laws and regulations, as well as for drafting sectoral legislation and policy planning documents. And I would like to turn to the representatives of these ministries. If you do not have the resources or for any other reason do not want to finance the scientific sector, either, be so kind, please, at least your direct responsibilities. You will arrange for the relevant regulatory enactments and either you will rule out the second paragraph of Article 33, or you will rule out the transitional provisions...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U646	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U647	Colleagues! When 12. Mr Bondara was still reading the budget at the Saeima and following all the proposals and how the budget was not being implemented, then he also once said that the Scientific Act was still not being implemented and reminded the coalition from year to year - the coalition of that time. Now Mr Bondara cannot even follow the proposals we are currently voting on. I would like to hear in this case, in particular, Mrs Golubeva's comment on why Development/About! the area of scientific funding so highly advertised, which was also offered to voters both for the Saeima elections and for the municipal elections - why everyone, absolutely all of "Development/About!" is silent at the moment. Is that so? Neither do we hear any comments from Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, because we remember that last year Mrs Beitnere-Le Gallas mentioned the fact that she is very sorry that this funding is still not being provided. And that should be corrected. At the moment, we are just talking about ourselves, we are commenting, we are debating, but we really would like to hear what the coalition is currently thinking about not having a budget... the promises and the incorporated law are not being fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U648	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U649	For the Commission... On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that proposal 41, as well as proposal 40. - Mrs Papule's proposal, was not supported by the Commission. Not supported, so I am calling for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U650	Please call me! We will vote for 41. - the Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! - 29, against - 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U651	42. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U652	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U653	43. - a proposal from three Members of the Latgale Commission. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U654	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U655	Dear colleagues, I hear from a number of proposals that the chairman of the commission, to say that, ironically, the opposition proposals to allocate funding from unforeseen sources. It is difficult for me to refrain from reading this proposal. The nature of the proposal is to allocate funding for completing the construction of the Olympic centre Rēzekne from the funds for unforeseen events. I hope, colleagues, that we will live up to the times when the completion of construction will no longer be an unforeseen occurrence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U656	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U657	Colleagues, the construction of the Olympic Centre “Rēzekne” takes place every year. As far as I remember, funds are allocated to the Saeima every year to continue it. Maybe the younger colleagues, who have not been in politics for so long, will not remember, but there was a project like that at the time - the wise pond. The wise ponds were also sung. Additional funding could be granted every year because there was always some reason why this work should be continued. But, colleagues, these are also... Although Mr Bondara is always trying to tell us that it is the sub-commissions of Latgale... the Commission's proposals, signed by three Members. It is a motion from Members, and I would really be happy... If it were the Latgale Commission, it would be a pleasure to see the proposals of all the members of the Latgale Commission... signatures under this proposal. But overall, this is once again a very bad practice. Besides that it is generally a project of wise ponds, it would be normal for the Ministry of Education and Science to draw up at least a medium-term plan for development of sports constructions, which would include not only the project of construction of the Olympic centre “Rēzekne”, but also other infrastructure development projects, which would have been evaluated at least at the Latvian National Sports Council. So, of course, I will also vote in favour of this proposal. Just as it would have been a pleasure if Mr Riekstins had left the proposal for the construction of a sports hall, which would also be a contribution to Latgale, because I agree with all the comments that colleagues have made before - in a situation where you have taken huge money away from the municipalities - you must probably be happy about every piece of this that you are rejecting from one of the municipalities, particularly those in Latgale.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U658	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U659	Yes, Mrs Reizniece, it would really be all very well if those of our great Saeima's charities did not take this to themselves, nor did they use the quotas of Members to raise their personal points. I do not know if it can really help Mr Bondara if he circles only around that Olympic centre and does not go anywhere further, for example, to a small businessman or to a brown library. So we know that before the elections, Mr Bondara must remain only at the Olympic Centre and nowhere else, not a step forward. If we are talking about fulfilling our promises, how and how consistently this coalition works, it is certainly not worth reminding us that in 2019 Mr Kariņš himself promised Mr Levit that there will be no parliamentary quota, even though there are various proposals to put them in a form. So I have to say that, unfortunately, its quotas are, as we know, some good already... if we are talking about boilers, we have already run to tell everyone about our work. We already know that work is going on, so we have one hero in the Saeima, who advertises ourselves in relation to the acquisition of these boilers. Here we have three more cases. So we see that, unfortunately, with a large part of the funds being made available to municipalities, some good now are trying to really play charity. We cannot, of course, support this proposal. But in every case, this is the continuation of bad practices and we must definitely point this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U660	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U661	Madam President, Colleagues! Yes, this is evidence that coalition Members can also use surnames to share quotas. To be honest, the Dagda boiler has been resolved, so another measure must be resolved to know the surnames to be added to the inscription on the building in question. But at this point, I would like to say to Latgale Members and also to the Head of the Sports Sub-Commission that, looking at the Dagda boiler, there are in fact several vocational education schools, which are centres of competence for vocational education, at least for the time being, where there are still no sports facilities and there is no place where students can play sport or do business... It would be very nice if these schools were also supported by surnames or other sub-committees so that vocational education institutions could not only warm up the Dagda boiler, but also play sports very seriously in a number of centres of competence for vocational education, which at the same time also carry out national defence training, implement special programmes for fire-fighting and many other professions, including physical activity and physical temper. Therefore, it seems that coalition policy, implemented in the field of vocational education and general education, would only benefit if quotas of members of such coalitions in a positive way, and not only those of Dagda, were also allocated to other countries of Latvia. And I am not talking at this point about the cities of the country in Kurzeme, but really about the countries where sports stadiums would be very useful for students in vocational education. Please consider that this type of allocation can be explicitly supported, especially for the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U662	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U663	Thank you. In my view, in the context of the need to allocate funds from unforeseen events to complete the construction of the Rēzekne Sports Centre... There is also a very important, timely and thorough discussion, which Mrs Golubeva pointed out during the previous discussion. I think that, with the adoption of the budget package, this is a very serious aspect, such as the proposal that appears at second reading. This has not been adequately discussed and has not been carefully evaluated. That is why, before voting, I also ask you to weigh and think carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U664	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U665	Once again, the 43rd proposal was supported by the Commission and supported by the Members who submitted it (not to be heard). ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U666	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 43. - the motion tabled by Members Teirumniek, Rancan and Bondar! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported. Time to break. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. Interruption until 7.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U667	Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. So on the agenda - draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member Mārtiņš Bondars on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U668	Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues, with return! 44. And Evia... the proposal by Ms Evija Papule, Member. There is something about sport, but Mrs Papules wants to tell himself where that dog is buried. Although not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U669	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U670	Thank you, Madam President, colleagues. I understand that with many appropriations and many financial shifts from one position to another, both the sub-committee, the parliamentary sub-committee, and the Ministry of Education and Science, have acted differently with sports funding. But it cannot really be traced whether this amount, which is mentioned in the proposal, has been covered in order to have full funding, as has been the case so far in support of popular sport and youth activities. It is therefore not a big sum. The Dagda boiler is certainly cheaper than a contribution to the overall youth work, so if it were to be allocated as an additional amount, if it had not already been allocated in many appropriations, then we could say that the Ministry of Education and Science not only takes care of chaos in general education, but, on the contrary, that sport follows and maintains, under community conditions, at least the minimum funding needed so that national sport and youth support can be half-existent. As we know, because of the distance learning, both in the form of youth studies, at school and perhaps also in the elderly, people are now being asked to pay much more attention to their physical fitness and physical activities, because we are being urged to go out every moment, go to nature, move, breathe oxygen and other activities, but it is clear that sport activities are not allowed in a direct, customary way, which is also understandable because of the epidemiological situation. But in any case, the situation will ever happen and funding will be needed, including to support youth activities. Therefore, if the heroes have not already done so and provided full funding, I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U671	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U672	Dear Mrs. Mourniece! I really didn't want to debate. I'd beg for a procedure if you can connect me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U673	Please enter the procedure section. Member Aldis Gobzems has applied for the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U674	Dear Mrs. Mourniece! I would ask the rapporteur, Martin Bondar, because we are listening to people who have not been in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and I am not, for example, a member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax). In principle, the rapporteur does not report on the budget proposals and at all times states: "One of the speakers will tell you what the proposal will be about." Or don't tell us anything if no one is going to have a debate, but the rapporteur's task is to report on the proposal and not just to name what it is about, whether it has been supported or not. I would call on Mr Bondara... because it's a budget... explain, however, every proposal that this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U675	Thank you, I support this requirement. Members shall have the right to call on the rapporteur to report on the proposal. Proposal No 44... is closed? ( Internouncing call.) For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U676	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that if there has been no debate on the proposal in the Commission, an expanded debate, I cannot invent this debate. I can try, but I'm not going to do it, otherwise I'm going to have trouble. I would therefore like to say on behalf of the Commission that 44. - Mrs Papule's proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U677	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 44. - the proposal tabled by Member Papule! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U678	45. is the proposal of Member Raimonds Bergmanis, which is redistributing from one sport to another, let us say, the programme. There was no wide-ranging debate in the Commission either. It is good that Raimonds Bergmanis has applied, he will certainly be able to tell more than I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U679	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U680	President. Colleagues! It is now an evening, and perhaps now we can talk about sport so that our health can be good enough after such a long debate. But unfortunately, at the moment, in the situation of the community, we are responding to events, trying to save this situation chaoticly instead of acting on a pre-designed plan. This has been observed in all areas and, unfortunately, also in sport. We are reacting emotionally, not providing a predictable long-term policy and action plan. Sport - it is both a healthy lifestyle and high achievements. So both a physically healthy society and values - patriotism, pride. Both are long-term issues. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has rejected my applications, my proposals for additional funds for sport. This means that the public budget allocated to sport will be significantly reduced compared to 2020. I consider this decision to be unjustified and to undermine both sporting results, public health in general, the positive impact of sport in society and public confidence in the government and the state in general. I can say so because what the government says is not in harmony with what it is doing. Therefore - how do both existing policy planning documents and laws determine one, while the budget shows something else? As an example, I can mention the Government's declaration: let us review the financing of the sport sector by ensuring a stable long-term financing model and by discussing, as a matter of priority, the types of sport to be supported in the high level of achievement in sport, including the paralympic movement. We now have the opportunity to support this, including youth and sport events. Whether we want it or not, we will find it out immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U681	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U682	Despite Raimonds Bergmanis' speech, proposal 45 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U683	Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - Member Bergmanis's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 27, against - 52, refraining from - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U684	There is also 46th motion from Member Raimonds Bergmanis. It is also linked to sport, so money is redistributed from the grant for team sports to funding for the preparation of selections and participation in international competitions. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U685	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U686	Good afternoon, everyone! At this point it is difficult, difficult to understand your attitude, because you always vote for... Well, in fact-based cases. I think no one needs to prove that sport is the thing that can help society as a whole. That's what you're writing about in your just accepted for all of us... The National Development Plan adopted in the summer of 2020 for seven years: “The use of the potential of sport in Latvia not only to support high performance sport, but also to motivate people of all ages to focus on physical activities, thus contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the European Charter for Sport: to offer everyone the opportunity to engage in sport, and in particular to ensure that all young people are given the opportunity to learn physical education....” Currently we are talking about sports, team sports. You've said so often that you're a team. The Sports Law also mentions many times... and now we can see once again that the Sports Law is not being enforced. The third paragraph of Section 13 of the Sport Law provides: “Child and Youth Sport is to be financed primarily from the state budget.” The fifth part also states that ‘the state provides financial support for the preparation and participation in the European and World Championships and the Olympics tournaments and final competitions of the national team’. Dear Members, You know the Olympics are coming. We always hope for our team membership, and this is the biggest achievement that a small country... or not just a small country... a large national team to start. After all, you will always be happy and happy about it. Where are we at this moment that we do not support such teams, Latvian teams, participation in international competitions? I also call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U687	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U688	Madam President, colleagues. It would be only self-evident if this proposal were supported by those colleagues who are currently responsible for education, youth policy and sport. Why? Because it is clear that the community will introduce a number of adjustments not only to the traditions of children but also to the traditions of adult movements. I don't think it's the only way to run... Parks... supported... and will, to say, be implemented without financial resources... can replace professional sport... And the other reason. Well, you guys now... responsible party... You're... It is clear that you are currently destroying the entire previous system, but you are not creating anything new and, above all, you are not providing resources. Well, in every case... The media have also heard about the frustration in the sport sector and among sports professionals - not only about the forthcoming incomprehensible reforms, but also about the fact that funding is not really transparent and not really understandable. And in this case... It would be ridiculous if you did not support, well, at least the provision of funding that would make it possible to see that the money is the same as in previous years. Because then you will not be able to say that suddenly sport has come to mystic, to be honest, without specifying the source, well, not too well-founded amounts of funding... Bye-bye. It would be nice if I talked about sport, because the community will also introduce changes in children's movements. And it is unlikely that the extension of the school year will replace sports activities for those children who are growing up at the moment, who are emerging as future candidates, perhaps Latvian team teams. So if you don't invest at least the amount that has been done so far, then you can blame the destruction of the current system. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U689	The name to Member Raimond Bergman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U690	Dear colleagues, Is there at least one sportsman in Latvia who could now admit that this can be - currently count on a stable long-term financing model? From the draft budget 2021, there is no delivery of those promises, as in fact there is a reduction in all chapters. Ironising can say that long-term stability is only through a consistent reduction in funding. Without a concrete, understandable plan on what is a state priority in sport, the entire life of sport will continue to exist in survival. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U691	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U692	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that the 46th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U693	Please call me! We will vote for 46. - Member Bergmanis's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 55, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U694	47. - the proposal made by my fellow Member Ivan Klementyev, which provides for the allocation of funds from unforeseen means for high-class sport - more specifically, for the Tokyo Olympics, for players in the games. But this proposal was not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U695	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U696	Hello... Good evening, honourable Members and Madam President. Now why have I envisaged that proposal? Because it's... In the long-term state budget has also been reduced to 5 million... budget... Maybe 7 million in the budget cut for sport... There were 5 million sports facilities... Reduced... Sports federations and sports events have also been reduced to 1 million whole... and also for high-class achievements in sport also - reduced by 2 million. Yeah, the sport got it today from Covid-19 money... received 5 million to pay for unused premises, salaries would also be paid to sports staff. It was done, thank you also, for your support, but yet... The Olympic Games are coming, and this year was already Olympic. And many athletes needed to complete the Olympic qualification to go to the Olympic Games. At the moment, we only have eight road signs on the Tokyo Olympics. But the Olympic Games next year will take place in Tokyo, they need to get ready. They will take place in a completely different continent, where there must be a completely different approach when athletes prepare and one more time before the Olympic Games, it is imperative to acclimatize to check how all sports mechanisms work, the heart work. How many days before the Olympic Games do you need to acclimatize better? We also need to think about how we will deliver our sports equipment, which is also a precious joy, and what specialists we will take with us, and where we will place our... not only the main team, but also the support team; the form of sport also needs. And the Olympics are coming. Please extend... One more minute to give me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U697	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U698	Yeah, thank you. And we also need to think about how to prepare for the winter Olympics, which are actually after a year. That is also a serious process. And it's a sports sector where we've achieved great results all year round, and for Latvia's recognition, thanks to sport as well. Unfortunately, when planning the budget, the Ministry of Education and Science, which submitted it to the Cabinet of Ministers... Unfortunately... Sport was among those priorities, but it was not supported. And there was a vacuum, and it needs to be prevented, because 17 members from different political groups (from the opposition - only three, more - from the position) are working on the Sports Commission. If you're not in favour... I don't know what you're doing there, in that Sports Sub-Commission. 10 more people...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U699	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U700	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 47th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U701	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 47. - Member Clementyev's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 56, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U702	48. is the proposal of colleague Bergmanis. There is no support in the Commission. Also related to preparation for the Olympic Games in Tokyo and Beijing. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U703	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U704	I would ask you to combine the two times... I'll go.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U705	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U706	It is clear that following the recent judgement of the Constitutional Court on the issue of universities, obviously also in Article 13 of the Sport Law... The first part contains what to discuss. It provides, by the way, that the amount of funding for the budget sub-programme ‘High Performance Sport’ is to be fixed at least in the previous budget year. Well, here we get here too - neither do we comply with this law this year. Of course, one can take into account this current norm, but it should be remembered what pride every medal won gives Latvia. Let us remember how many years of hard work athletes have to invest to win them, and support is needed every year... in a number of years. And now... I would like to conclude by talking about this attitude. Do you really remember what 30 years ago, during the barricades, was protecting the Cabinet? Athletes. Bobslayists. And now we are deciding to support these people, those people who were ready to sacrifice their entire sporting life and defend the bare hands of this country. Isn't it ironic? I think so. And at this moment, when you suspect that this year, we also greeted the very Bobsleyists who won the first gold medal... This gold medal was served on the land of Latvia. I don't know if we'll ever be... whether there will be another possibility for someone living here in Latvia to enjoy something like this. And - the current attitude from the management side... Thank you to the Minister for Education and Science who came, but where were the other leaders of this country when they won such an important... Is that so? And it happened here in our land! Is that how we treat things? We saw the attitude in Argentina when we left... Very controversial, very different ways can assess this person, his contribution to sport and his private life - but what was the attitude of the Heads of State? He was removed from the Presidential Palace with three days of mourning. I don't want us to have to do the same thing: get out our sport with three days of mourning... according to our own laws. Do you really not think that any of you will have to go to Tokyo and Beijing? How will you feel? Will you be able to see these athletes in your eyes? And if you don't leave, then that's the other situation in which... Again, we'll get to the same attitude as why you didn't go there... Therefore, please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U707	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U708	Good evening again! Sports unites all nations, all religions... and just in Tokyo, where there will be 10,000... the best, strongest athletes with good, positive energy. After that, when everyone gathers together, it will be a great success for all. And if we stand still on the pedestal, the Olympic pedestal, and the Latvian flag is floating there, above the Tokyo stadium, it will be a huge success, and very many will remember it. The two billion who sit and watch the Olympic Games will remember it. Let's think about whether it's worth investing in sport or not, because it can't be like today... we decide, no, we don't need that money, then, in July, we're going to make a decision that we're giving money, you know, half a million... There's nothing we can do... In sport you need to work in the long term to achieve results in order to plan your life. No, it's not enough to just bite your muscle, but you need to think... bring the head in order to achieve the result for each muscle of your... The sportsman... You have to be responsible for your actions. It's also psychological work - we need to get ready for the people behind you. The nation invests state funds, taxpayers' funds to delegate its best, strongest ambassadors to Japan or Beijing, so that they are honest in defending their Latvian country. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U709	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U710	48. proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U711	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. - Member Bergmanis's proposal! Please, let's vote! To - 29, to - 52, to - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U712	49. - a proposal from a group of Members. Members come from the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union. The 49th proposal supports paralympic sport. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U713	Mr Bondara, can you read the Members who have tabled this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U714	The applicants are Gundars Dauge, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Māris Kučinskis, Janīna Jalinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Dūklavs, Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U715	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U716	Yes, colleagues! There will certainly not be such an emotional and strong talk about support for sport as my colleague, Mr Bergmanis, but in fact this is a topic that could and should. The funding offered from the Members to the Latvian Paralympic Committee is about the amount that the Committee itself asks for further work on the implementation of the Paralympic Sports Centre project. The decision that such a sports centre is necessary to provide adapted premises for the development of both professional and amateur sports for people with reduced mobility was adopted already in 2017. And so far, colleagues, about a million have already been dedicated and used, with the support of the government and mainly the support of the Saeima. This amount requested is necessary to develop local planning and ensure further development of the project. The Olympic Committee, of course, also expresses such a reasonable indignation that it seems that, at the moment, this project has stuck in the bureaucratic corridors of the government, is thought as such a hot potatoes from the ministry to the ministry, which is convenient to do, because yes, it is indeed a project that does not only concern education and sport... responsibility, but also social. And the project doesn't go ahead with it. Colleagues! If so much resources have been invested, we understand that it has already been decided and that it is a real necessity, and then it is not worth to do this project at the moment and it is worth investing these 150 thousand to get further and to be able to deal with Riga's thought further and to direct the project. It would be a very important project not only for the development of sport here, but also for adapted sports... development of the tourism industry. A lot of people are already... national organisations show interest.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U717	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U718	Proposal 49 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U719	Please call me! We will vote for 49. - the proposal tabled by the Members of the Committee of the Regions, Ms Dauges, Ms Reizniece-Ozola, Mr Kučinska, Mr Jalinska, Mr Bergmanis, Mr Dūklavs and Mr Valaiņa! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 54, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U720	Colleagues, 50th is the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It transfers funds from unforeseen events to the Ministry of Education and Science to support barricade measures next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U721	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U722	Dear colleagues, I just want to tell you that I am so happy that our Cabinet is so well dealing with its main challenges, the crisis, everything that happens in health care, the economy, and that it is even time for the Cabinet to make decisions... to discuss and decide on four thousand euros. I call you, my fellow Members... I call upon you to be applauded (He himself.) our Cabinet of Ministers for so much competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U723	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U724	On behalf of the Commission, the 50th proposal, which comes from the Cabinet of Ministers, was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U725	Please call me! Let's vote for 50. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U726	51. - Members' groups include Jānis Dūklavs, Dana Reizniece–Ozola, Viktors Valainis, Gundars Dauge... which actually re-allocate funds from unforeseen events to aid for agriculture and rural development. This proposal was not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U727	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U728	Yes, my fellow Members, this government is strange - I am sorry to say so - which is as if with one hand... thinks how to support entrepreneurs at the moment, who are in the run-up to the crisis, but with the other hand, substantial support and funding for the whole sector is being reduced. In particular, this is about the fact that, for the first time in many years, the Ministry of Agriculture's budget programme (state aid for agriculture and rural development) does not provide for investment incentives, partial cancellation of the interest on loans to primary agricultural producers... the cooperative societies concerned. This is a programme that has worked well for many years and has supported small and medium-sized farmers in particular by allowing both the purchase of agricultural land and equipment and the development of production. Statistics: 1911 applicants applied for this support in 2018, and 2668 in 2019, which was mostly small and medium-sized family farms. Colleagues, it is not a secret that banks are also quite critical of the allocation of funding to the agricultural sector at the moment, and if there is such state aid, then farmers have much greater access to funding. A good case created during the previous government’s acquisition of working capital is the Altum land fund, which is administered at least for a moment by selling its agricultural land to a public body, to obtain such working capital. But, colleagues, that is not enough. I do not really understand why it is necessary to destroy those programmes that have worked very well so far. I partly understand that the Ministry of Agriculture, under such pressure from farmers, is trying to think... from European money, but they cannot be used to purchase agricultural land.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U729	The name is Mr. Janis Cielen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U730	Good evening, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, This proposal. I want to fix the applicants a little. The applicants do not know that some 2700 farms out of 60 thousand received this year's support. And they're not small and medium-sized, as Mrs. Reizniece–Ozola says, but they're mostly big. Of course, there are also medium and small, but most of them are large. I want to fix it, too, that... The Ministry of Agriculture has allocated EUR 20 million to the creation of a new support programme for partial repayment of interest... investment measures. So you don't have to say there's no money, but... Of course, for 10 years all of this has been financed from the state budget, but now the Ministry has shifted it to the envelope of direct payments. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U731	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U732	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that proposal 51 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U733	Please call me! We will vote for 51. - Member Dūklavs, Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa and Many's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 28, against - 55, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U734	52. - the proposal of Member Evija Papule, which is intended to reallocate resources from unforeseen resources to higher education. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U735	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U736	Madam President, colleagues. Yes, as I mentioned at the beginning, there will be several such proposals, because higher education institutions are under the authority of different ministries and are in fact the responsibility of both the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Defence... and colleges, including. And not just because it's under several ministries... But why is it so forceful? Because the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science did not agree not only with the criteria for granting this allegedly increased state scholarship, but also did not say the main ones - that the circle of grant beneficiaries... that they are mostly those who study in state budget places. And, as you know, state budget places for various universities are not very often created by most students. As a result, the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has objected to the fact that it is in fact this unequal approach that we are already watching in a number of areas, where the JCPOA is responsible for the distribution of money, especially for lunch, free time, distribution for Class 1-4. Now this grouping, that one is given and the other is not given, is also in this performance... I have to say, at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. And for those who pay for their own studies, they don't have to get this grant boost. It seems that Latvia is not so rich at the moment that you will identify your young people: you will have a scholarship because I want it, and you will not have it because you already pay and continue to pay for it. Once again, these young people will choose other universities, universities in other countries, where studies are free of charge (this is not currently offered by Latvia!) where, moreover, the scholarship can be awarded regardless of whether you pay or not for the study. In this case, I urge you to support the proposal so that this injustice does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U737	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U738	In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, proposal 52 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U739	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 52. - the proposal tabled by Member Papule! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U740	53. - An offer from Members Viktoras Valaiņa, Gundars Dauges and Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which transfers money from Latvenergo dividends to minimum pensions. Thank you. That's 60 million. And the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U741	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 53. - The proposal of Members Valaiņa, Many and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U742	54. is the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is related to additional financing of SIA “Children and Adolescent Resources Centre” to provide social rehabilitation services for children who are dependent on intoxicating substances and... processes to ensure that service capacity is strengthened and that availability is increased, that queues are reduced. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U743	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U744	Colleagues! This proposal increases funding for teen resource centres services. The teen resource centre helps adolescents who are in serious difficulties in their lives, especially at a time when a person is particularly vulnerable and vulnerable. This year the Centre was to help 120 clients, but already until September 207 teenagers had received support, 400 more had received crisis advice, and in fact a significantly higher number of young people received support than planned. I therefore think that, after the increase in funding next year, it will be possible to provide a service without long waiting; this is very important. At the same time, however, I would like to remind you that there is unfortunately not yet a unified support policy in Latvia for adolescents in difficulty. In my opinion, this must become the case in the near future. Social workers in all municipalities know where to approach, how to provide professional support services to these young people as soon as possible in the face of problems, dependence or other serious disorders of the teens. I believe that we need to establish a single support system across the country. This first step - to allocate funding to ensure at least that there is no line next year - is, I think, in the right direction. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U745	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U746	Yeah, thank you. Despite the fact that... This proposal is certainly positive and very important, because it concerns a very sensitive area and a problem, but since it appeared at second reading and has not been discussed in time and carefully, it also seems to be one of the MEPs' quota proposals. That's why it doesn't mean... There is no indication that the Government and the Ministry are carrying out their duties of sufficient quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U747	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U748	Dear colleagues, Since we have both a Member and Minister for Welfare Ramona Petraviča, I have a great request to Mrs Petraviča to explain why this particular measure is not included in the joint appropriation under the Ministry of Welfare. In a different way, it really looks like one of the parliamentary quotas that this time goes under the title of the Cabinet of Ministers. And to me, fellow Members, yes, well, I guess... without questioning my colleague Maria Golubeva's best intentions and the fact that she... Well, I accept... Well, I assume that it is my colleague, Mrs Golubeva, who is responsible for this proposal for time, and I am convinced that she has done, most probably, all this research into this particular company, but I am embarrassed, colleagues, by the fact that we are allocating budgetary resources to SIA. Well, that's not something that happens often, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U749	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U750	Yes, colleagues, I would also like to draw attention to the very same fact that... Despite the fact that the aim is good and worthy - Mrs Golubeva gave a rather detailed account of its topicality! -, I am also really embarrassed that funding in this way, supported by a decision of the Member and the Government, is granted to one SIA - without competitions, without any criteria, without a normal procedure, on which I think Mrs Golubeva, as such, would definitely have agreed to the implementation of an open policy. Why is such an exception this time? And why are such decisions being imposed on Members' shoulders rather than being driven by the Ministry of Welfare as the Ministry responsible for the sector? I don't know.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U751	The name of the Member, Maria Golubeva, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U752	Colleagues, it's quite simple. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and Labour, about a month ago, this issue of services for teenagers with different addictions was discussed, and it was concluded that there is no unified system in the country, but that the only organization that currently performs this service for the state budget money is the teen resources centre, which is the foundation of a children's hospital, as far as I understand it, and the legal form is SIA, but in any case it is related only to the foundation of a children's hospital, which is Latvian... So to say, the state hospital. It is not by any means private SIA.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U753	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U754	Colleagues! How can we see... if I understand correctly, it is quite freshly established in SIA, and we will be very happy if as many children and teenagers as possible receive these necessary services and we will become increasingly, increasingly less current than we are. However, I would also like to understand what exactly is the involvement of Mrs. Marija Golubeva in the creation of this SIA and in supporting this proposal. It may be that... I understand she's spent her time, but probably... Question more rhetorical. And I must also say: unfortunately, this looks like a quota. Whether it is a quota or not, we will see perhaps some pre-election in rhetoric or on another issue where one of the politicians attributed a great deal of merit to himself by shaveing some of the proposals through the government. We really want the centre of all their best resources and children's rehabilitation. However, I feel that such things would not be acceptable for my political career, rhetoric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U755	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U756	I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that this is not a proposal from one or more Members, but a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers and is supported at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U757	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 54. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U758	Colleagues, 55. - The proposal by Member Evija Papule. It's going to be redeployed: from the funds for unforeseen cases - to scholarships... Mrs Papule will certainly tell you more about the scholarships and why. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U759	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U760	Madam President, colleagues, including colleagues from the opposition. May you not embarrass the small amount! It's not a fellow Member's quota. It is once again a section of guaranteed increases in grants, including in the state budget... includes as a stable position... At this point, under the auspices of the Ministry of Welfare, there are also almost the highest level or... the first institution at the highest level, which also includes people who study. And that's why these students too would not only be charged or budgeted, but... At any time, students of an institution under the Ministry of Welfare would also benefit from an increase in the grant. I would like to ask Mrs Golubeva to look at this section because the Ministry of Welfare, which is also responsible for the decisions taken in the previous vote and also for the prevention of young people... This institution, which you would vote on in the 55th proposal, is also doing to some extent the same thing you are talking about. If you don't create a new generation... and the new generation can be attracted by the stable amount of the scholarship, not... Not every year, watch where to find... or do not find, but mark this position as stable funding for all students. Well, in fact, this proposal should be supported if the welfare sector is important, not only the support of individual SIAs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U761	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U762	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 55th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U763	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 55. - The proposal from Member Papule! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U764	Proposal No 56 Colleagues, over a hundred million... The Social Democratic Party Group has tabled a proposal to increase, for example, the minimum pensions from 330... the non-negotiable minimum, I apologise, not pensions... from 330 to 500 euros. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U765	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U766	Good evening, honourable fellow Members. This proposal provides for a financial balance for the budget if, in the course of implementing the previous proposal tabled by our group in another draft law, the non-negotiable minimum annual pension amount of EUR 300... 960... up to EUR 6000 per year, from EUR 330 per month... in force... up to EUR 500. If such a measure were to be implemented, it is true that the budget would have to reserve the funds that have now been so seriously surprised by the President of our Commission. Social justice and reducing the tax burden on pensioners - it costs money. What do you want? That is why our group proposed budgeting funds, which are also mentioned in our proposal. Yes, big money, but we need to pay it so that our pensioners get more money in their wallets at the end. I ask that if this proposal is still to be voted on, it should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U767	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U768	Proposal 56The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U769	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 56. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U770	57. - the proposal of the Group to increase the national social security benefits for the social protection of the participants in the emergency response to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the victims of the accident. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U771	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 57. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 59, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U772	58. - the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group, which is actually asking for funding for national social benefits. And this proposal, too, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U773	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 58. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U774	59. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal, which is intended to reallocate resources from unforeseen resources to compulsory national social security contributions... actually, well, national social... Well, yes, to people who are social... insurance...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U775	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U776	Unfortunately, the chairman of the commission is misleading Members! My proposal is to renew targeted grants for social workers - those who, together with medical workers, are currently present... fight with Covid-19 both nursing and working in families with children. It is precisely the social workers who work and specialise in family work that are meant this targeted grant, which was paid out in 2018 and was not renewed afterwards. I would also like to inform Members that, next year, the Ministry of Welfare unfortunately did not foresee any cent in the budget for 2021 specifically for raising the salaries of social workers. These employees remain totally without the attention of the ministry, the ministries responsible, and do not increase their remuneration for a long time. The funding that we are asking for is the EUR 898 000 needed to provide targeted grants to municipalities to provide social workers working with families and children with allowances, holiday allowance and sickness allowance... in proportion to the amount of the premium... and compulsory social security contributions of the employer's state. I would also like to remind you that, given that the local authorities will have fewer resources this year, this is a very important budget line, which I would ask for to be allocated to raise the salaries of social workers on the national side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U777	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U778	On behalf of the Commission, I will not say much to make a mistake, but the 59th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U779	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 59. - Member Lochmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! - 30, 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U780	In turn, 60th is the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, which envisages, let us say... So, I'm sorry, I got my articles out here... reallocation from unforeseen cases to improvement of the IT system of the Ministry of Welfare. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U781	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U782	Yes, colleagues! I would also ask Members of the Saeima to reject this proposal. It was quite amusing at all to discuss this proposal within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. A few days before looking at the Saeima, the government - and I accept it, too, the Minister for Welfare himself - had voted in favour of this proposal, and then the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission began to tell us: "No, no, don't need this money! Please vote against!’ And just after that my question... in practice whether these funds are indeed necessary because, as can be seen, they were intended to administer the State’s social security contributions in the light of the new tax changes. Yes, while the document came from the government to the Saeima, there were regular sittings... exercises, lumps and changes in the administration procedure, now not with the involvement of social workers anymore, but by ordering the State Revenue Service to assess whether a person should have the opportunity to pay lower social contributions if a person has declared it himself... We know that the law now provides for this possibility. Well, that's not what they do. But if we're happy that money has been saved, then actually... I think you understand quite well: if we currently save 72.5 thousand euros, then... We have already voted for half a million before some proposals, which will be necessary for the introduction of the new administration system. Well, tell me how else to call this one, a chaos and an uneconomic approach.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U783	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U784	Colleagues! With her full association with Dana Reizniece-Ozola in her assessment of the proposal, I would like to add that in fact, Dana Reizniece-Ozola reported very qualitatively what has happened in the Commission, what has been the debate, what has been the debate, and why this proposal has not been supported. I must say with great regret that the quality of this bill, the draft budget, we are left behind because... However, as far as we are concerned, the rapporteur is very careful to fulfil his duties. And it's not easy, so... Just the opposition in some bit of biting, but... objective. Mrs Mūrniece also notes that, unfortunately, we cannot present to the public a qualitative debate on the proposals supported, if nothing is said about them at all, not even a few words. Thank you. Colleagues, I call...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U785	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U786	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 60th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U787	Please call me! We will vote for 60. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U788	Colleagues, 61 is the proposal of the Member Ivan Klementyev, who intends to re-allocate funds from unforeseen events to the State Probation Service. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U789	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U790	I can't see myself! I don't see myself, unfortunately... I can't see myself!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U791	We do not see you either, Mr. Clementyev!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U792	Yeah...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U793	Are you accidentally closing the camera?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U794	Excuse me, yes, my mistake, apologies. Yeah. Dear colleagues, The trade union of the employees of the State Probation Service calls on the members of the Saeima to specifically increase the capacity of the staff of the State Probation Service in order to strengthen the internal security of the state. Increasing the basic salary is necessary to ensure public security in the performance of service functions and would significantly reduce the flow of qualified labour from the service and increase the requirement to attract eligible applicants to vacant posts. The increase in wages shall apply to groups of employees whose salary levels are significantly lower than the maximum amount established by the Cabinet of Ministers. The increase in wages is essentially aimed at employees who work with the probation client daily in direct contact. For all these workers, the minimum educational requirement is higher education. The staff member shall acquire the necessary knowledge and experience in an average of two years at work and in training provided by the service itself. The total number of posts in the service is 404. On the other hand, the number of clients employed by the service staff every day is on average 6500 probation clients throughout Latvia. 70 percent of all criminal penalties applied in Latvia each year are executed by the State Probation Service. In 2019 53 employees left work at the State Probation Service. Staff rotation coefficient in 2019 - 57 per cent. 44 per cent of the selection of candidates ends without results - either the eligible applicants refuse to receive the remuneration offered, or tenders are submitted by candidates who do not qualify for the qualification. In 2020 55 employees have already left the State Probation Service in nine months. Please extend for one more minute...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U795	You can combine the times of the debate. The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U796	Yeah, thank you, thank you. The national probation service is a 100 per cent public administration body and it has no other way of finding funding to deal with this issue. The question of increasing remuneration is very important for the purpose of establishing a constructive dialogue with the Latvian Probation Workers' Union in a preventive manner, taking into account its defined priorities in the context of the common development directions of the State Probation Service and current trends in execution of penalties. And this indexation of salaries is provided for by the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U797	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U798	Proposal 61 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U799	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 61. - Member Clementyev's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 59, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U800	62. - The proposal of the Cabinet, which provides for the execution of planned measures of the 30-year commemoration event plan of 1991 in the draft order of the Cabinet supported by the Cabinet of Ministers on 14 July 2020, provides for reallocation of funding from unforeseen cases to the budget sub-programme of the Ministry of Justice “grants to religious organizations, associations and foundations”. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U801	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U802	63. - the proposal of Member Evija Papule, which provides for the transfer of funds from contingency funds to a grant to religious organisations, associations and foundations, in fact in support of the sacral heritage.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U803	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U804	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. Well, in fact, I very much hope that this proposal will be supported by the Members of the Saeima, because the addition to the budget comes to a Ministry led by a single party, which obviously has not noticed that a new law on the sacral heritage was passed a few years ago. But the implementation of this law requires funding, additional funding in order to be able as much as possible for those sacral buildings that need additional support, and to provide it. I really hope right now, even though a few minutes ago I looked... The Minister of Justice, of course, does not participate in the discussion, but perhaps one of the Ministry of Culture or one of the appropriate groups of intellectuals can explain whether these additional funds will be found where they will be found and whether the sacral heritage... The Ministry of Justice will ensure the implementation of the new law, because the decision of the Constitutional Court on the indication of financial volume in laws will not affect it, therefore it will not be reviewed. Thank you, the parliamentary secretary from the Ministry of Culture has applied for, and I look forward to a positive response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U805	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U806	Thank you to Mr Bondara for a very good report. This time, there was indeed a clear point in the proposal. I also call for this proposal to be supported, because indeed, in 2017 the law on financing the preservation of the Sacred Heritage was adopted, and the argument was also made that for the preservation of the historical heritage every year - for conservation, not for a huge breakthrough - the necessary funding is around EUR 4 million. And the previous government also tried every year, not in full, but at least in part... and plan such serious funding with a kind Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Justice... with the support of both ministers. Well, for statistics... I think you too, Members, have received - hopefully some have also read - a letter sent to all Members by metropolitan and archbishops. Last year 104 projects with a total funding of 4.5 million euro were submitted to the programme. This is the demand that is needed. We offer at least partial funding, much less polite, also next year to ensure. I know that the government has supported half a million euros, but the amount is extremely small. And with all due respect to Mr Kazinovsky, who has also tabled, as such, a proposal by his individual Member, once again on specific churches. I believe that this is not the right approach; there must be funding available in this programme, so that all churches can participate in the competition on the same playing field and can be eligible for this funding. Again, it is not good practice to return to the principle that churches are supported by parliamentary quotas. I call for support for this proposal or for the next one, which also provides for 2 million... EUR 2 million in funding for this programme - that would, in my opinion, be good support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U807	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U808	Hello! It's a pity that there was already one of the previous draft laws... do not support reduced VAT books. This, according to the Ministry of Finance, would require 1 million of the state budget. In this case, it is 2 million to support the sacral heritage. Unfortunately, we cannot afford this amount in the budget, but in the draft budget, in the 102nd proposal, the Cabinet is moving 510 thousand for the sacral heritage in the regions of Latvia, and, as Mrs Reizniece said, this amount will be distributed through a competitive procedure, it will not be reserved for specific churches. Consequently, I call on the budget law to support these 510 000, but these 2 million are not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U809	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U810	Yes, I have just learned with a surprise from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture that even churches will have a competition for funding. I believe that this proposal should be supported already because it is the churchmen who could find answers to the questions that they are experiencing at the moment, in difficult times, to make sure once again that there are values that support them in their soul, those that, unfortunately, are not supported at all by the present government. And once again, I would like to inform all Members that 35 opposition representatives have been collected... Members... and independent Members... To convene an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima to freeze the salaries of ministers and parliamentary secretaries of ministries. That would be fair and it would be fair to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U811	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U812	Colleagues! Instead of four million, half a million, 500 thousand, mentioned just now by Mr Janson. In my opinion, this is not the right approach. Until now, churches could also watch... In the budget there was a programme where every year... which had a stable allocation of funding and could also count on something... with that, so that these... that this sacral inheritance would be saved in some way, that it would be repaired in some way. Instead, it's 500 thousand now. And it was also a very interesting remark from Mr Janson. Thank you, Mr Janson, for your assessment in the debate... The second is where to get the money? In my opinion, you are one of the few who raised a question at all: where to take money. And where to take the money for it? In my opinion, as an opposition, we have already pointed out, in many places, various sources of money. And that would be more than one million euros that we could find in the budget... Either, for example, a sacral inheritance... Amendments to the law on solidarity, which have already been voted in advance... There, I think it would be enough for churches to have enough money. The question is, where else can you take the money? We could go through all the draft budgetary laws that have been agreed here and see where money could still be taken. And, as Mrs Regina Locmele said, right away... if everything is as everyone says, then we could freeze wages for the parliamentary secretaries. And then we could channel this freezing of money to the sacral heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U813	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U814	Thank you. Madam President, honourable colleagues. In fact, the debate and the debate show that this is a proposal that affects all denominations, regardless of nationality or language, regardless of party membership. This proposal would at least deserve a promise from the coalition against what is always being said (also expressed in the Prime Minister's speech) that there is no position and no opposition. However, this proposal should be accompanied by "partially supported and included in proposal 102". Of course, the amounts vary, but it would show that the Christian values of the position are important, regardless of which religion we belong, and also human dignity is important. Not so arrogant that... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So elementaryly reject absolutely everything that comes from others, just from your own... Not from your quota providers... I call once again for the proposal to be assessed and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U815	The debate has not yet been closed. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U816	Now, Mrs Papule, everything that has the support of the Cabinet of Ministers is supported, but everything that has... everything that has been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. And that is what the opposition's proposal unfortunately does not stand up to criticism. All those stories that someone in opposition will listen to... At the moment, the opposition has, in some ways, forced politicians to freeze the increase in the salaries of Members and Ministers, which I also call on the churches to direct, partly by supporting the Evija Papule proposal... if not fully support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U817	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U818	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to mention that the 63rd proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U819	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 63. - the proposal tabled by Member Papule! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 55, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U820	64. - a proposal from Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Gundars Koite, Māra Kučinska, Janina Jalinska, Viktors Valaiņa and Jānis Dūklavs. It is also about the sacral heritage, including about two million. Only in contrast to the previous proposal, where funds were planned to be taken from unforeseen resources, are funds sought or found from excise duty. This proposal is not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U821	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U822	Yes, colleagues, we had made proposals in the excise tax law, which were quite guaranteed... a positive fiscal impact is planned: eight million euros are already planned next year. You haven't supported them, you're a different option... Mr Reira, the Minister of Finance himself, has voted on another option, and is concerned about the result to be achieved. But in the context of this proposal, where we also offer, for our part, two million euro for the maintenance of the sacral heritage, I would like to mention to you the comparison that churches are similar to those with roads - if you do not invest in maintaining regular roads, then there is a much larger amount to be invested in repairing serious roads. Similarly, there is a sacral heritage, which is a cultural and historical building, which is not built yesterday and the afternoon, which is tens of... Centuries old buildings. Their maintenance requires resources, and the more we contribute to the maintenance and arrangement of the sacral heritage, the more money it will take at some point to try and save these cultural and historical buildings. I am pleased and appreciate that the Ministry of Culture has achieved results and provided at least a small part of the funding, but half a million for this purpose is too little. It is not for nothing in 2017 that a special law was designed to motivate the government and the Saeima to provide for funding for this purpose as a targeted grant for a specific programme and not for individual sites, because every year we saw in the Saeima that Members offered allowances for the arrangement of churches. If necessary, only the form must be correct.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U823	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U824	Yes, colleagues, let us also be objective. How many churches will we be able to arrange or partially arrange for this money that is now planned? I feel like it could be two or three... two three churches. And really only these are those churches that... Is that so? Whatever the competition is... I don't want to predict anything at all, but the feeling is that it could be, well, a maximum of three churches. However, we are all well aware that these are not just three churches that the state has to arrange. And this stability that was in these years when... However, it was a much larger amount that was diverted... At the moment, there is no real reason why this investment is being reduced. So much is said, at least from the Minister of Finance and others, that now it is necessary to invest money in investments... In construction, money is being invested. Why has the sacral heritage achieved such a significant reduction? There is little talk about this in the context of this debate. You will agree, colleagues - the reduction is about four times. And that is a significant reduction. I would therefore also like to hear this explanation - which has changed the policy approach. We have more than three churches that should be arranged next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U825	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U826	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. Mr Valaiņš has already begun asking questions, and the questions are timely. We know that in the society's situation, too, due to the constraints on the sacral structures... and we don't hide that we are talking about churches and churches... There will be a reduction in donations, both due to human solvency and due to the inability to go to church. And it's clear that the temples won't be able to take care of some improvements, construction or... as well as minor repairs in buildings, or as otherwise... And at this point, if we look at what people need in difficult situations, we also need this type of spiritual support. When you hear that less than half a million will be distributed in a competitive procedure, on the one hand it seems - yes, who will write the conditions and then they... the rest will stand and fight for it, but I would like to agree with those colleagues who said that it is not too honest with the people who have... That's what you Probably the priorities... And we'd like to hear if I'd like to hear... Well, if Mr. Janson started talking... to hear possible... Either, such certain statements as might be criteria or priorities - whether they are smaller ones or Latgale, or Catholic faith, which is currently receiving great support to some extent in the allocation of quotas; what these conditions will be, however, for those people who ask... not only those who wrote the letter, but who are asking questions, could also answer that you have hope, or, on the contrary, wait next year, then the parliamentary quotas will probably be even higher, because there will be a year of election. I would also be grateful for the objective information... not just criticising, but... Even though people can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U827	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U828	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to add a little bit to what Mr Janson said. Mr Janson said that the second reading of the budget had managed to agree on additional funding, these 510 thousand, for the sacral heritage programme, but there were already 500 thousand in the base, resulting in the total... the total amount is even higher than it was this year and than it was last year, so it is... this amount is over a million. And it will not be true for the two three projects supported, as has been said here. We will clarify and be able to inform colleagues perhaps absolutely precisely, but at the moment I will say from the memory that these were 13 or even several dozen projects - mostly small amounts - in the regions of Latvia. This year, the largest amount was directed to Jacob’s Cathedral. But in any case it is not planned to change anything in this order, and this procedure, when decided together with representatives of the confesions, without interfering with politicians and without interfering with the Ministry of Culture, about which of these sacral buildings need more support... So the system has been, it's absolutely the right system, it's not going to change and it's going to stay. And I'm glad, of course, to listen... to hear from Mr Valaiņa and Mrs Reizniece, former Minister for Finance, such a passionate speech of support. I remember that, at the time when she was a minister, there was no such speech, then in fact we came with the same arguments and the means that we had in these years, we would like to say that we had quite difficult political negotiations with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U829	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U830	So I made it clear - together with the budgetary base... And to this, second, reading... what we offer to the budget... It's one million... So... 10 thousand euros... And objects - in the regions of Latvia there are 23 objects that have a vital need for reconstruction. But it will really be competitive. And one of the criteria of the competition could be the readiness of the project – whether the municipality has already invested or invested in the congregation there, how much a project has been developed, so that in every case this building can be brought together in the best possible order.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U831	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U832	Good evening again, honourable colleagues! According to my colleague Jansons, the site of the sacral heritage will be one million to preserve it. This proposal is 64. ... However, I am calling for two million votes. The congregations themselves... On our side too, the congregation itself is very intense... Working intensively on the preservation of their churches - firstly, collecting donations, secondly, organising various charity concerts to collect funds, also inviting various people who have roots from certain parishes, who have been crossed in particular churches, and so on. And, of course, municipalities are also putting a great deal of art. If a church is supported by this sacral heritage program, the municipality also helps with its own artifact. And that's why... And practically the most important thing for today's temples - these are roofs. And these are not small projects, because the roof also requires sufficient funds, because churches like buildings are very high and, of course, without different buildings, it is impossible to perform these works. And specifically, when the Church of Līksna needed to change the towers as well as the roof part, these costs were very high, because it also requires a specific work on this high roof. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported - two million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U833	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U834	First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Dzintara without denying the contribution of the Ministry of Culture to the creation of a sacral heritage programme. You are very well aware that the support was provided on a regular basis with funding of two million each year, and that additional targeted grants were devoted to the organisation of large churches (including pope visits). I would also like to oppose Mr Valaiņš. Indeed, churches are not examples of public procurement where little money is being done; on the contrary, they are doing a lot for small money, and indeed the most valuable contribution is to channel these funds to a sacral heritage programme where order is already in place (in my opinion, very honest rules of play!) how these churches are chosen. It would be difficult for me to imagine an even better and more appropriate way. That's why! - we also propose that funding be directed directly to the sacral heritage programme.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U835	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U836	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 64th proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-30-PT13-2155-U837	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 64. - the proposal tabled by Member Reizniece-Ozola, Koite, Kučinska, Jalinska, Valaiņa and Dūklav! Please, let's vote! About - 33, against - 54, abstaining - 4. The proposal is not supported. Please enter a section on the procedure. Dear colleagues, Members Beitnere-Le Galla, Dombrovskis, Pimenov, Švecova and Bondar are asking for a break in the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of 23 November 2020 until 9 a.m. on 1 December this year. We must vote on this. Can we vote? Please call me! We will be voting to announce a break before 9 a.m. on November 23, 2020 in the remote extraordinary session of the Saeima! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. So a break is announced until 9: 00 a.m. on December 1, this year. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. Thank you all for your work today. We're going on in nine tomorrow. ( Interruption)
