ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U1	Hello, honourable Members! The second extraordinary session of the Saeima on 21 July 2020 was opened. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U2	Hello, colleagues! The draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” provides for several cases. First. To extend the period of validity of the decision granting a residence permit until 31 December 2020. Such an amendment is necessary so that foreigners, including those from high-risk countries, do not travel to Latvia in the current situation only in order to extend the validity of these permits. Secondly. The draft law provides that the absence of a foreigner from the moment when the emergency situation is established, i.e. from 12 March to 31 December of this year, shall be considered justified when assessing the issue of granting, registering or withdrawing a permanent residence permit. Such an amendment is necessary, because a foreigner who holds a valid permit must arrive at least once a year in Latvia, while due to the exceptional circumstances it may not be possible or not be possible until 31 December. The draft law also provides that, in addition to the administrative penalty for non-compliance with the rules of isolation, self isolation or home quarantine after an individual assessment of the nature of the violation, the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs will be able to revoke the issued visa or temporary residence permit for a foreigner. The draft law also clarifies the administrative responsibility for the violations of the epidemiological safety rules. The draft law is supported by the Commission. The Commission is asking for urgent action to be taken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U3	The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. None of the Members has applied to speak about the urgency of the matter or of the urgency of the matter. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For – 70, against – no, abstain – 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U4	The Commission calls for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U5	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U6	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes, and consideration – in the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U7	Consequently, the time for submitting proposals – by 12.45 p.m. – at the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. Thank you. On the agenda – draft law “Amendment to Ventspils Freeport Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U8	Hello, dear colleagues! Today we will consider the draft law “Amendment to the Ventspils Freeport Law” that we received from Prime Minister Kariņš in the Saeima. The aim of the draft law is to enable the Freeport of Ventspils administration to receive a state loan initiated by the... the crediting of the construction projects already started, thus ensuring the restoration and operation of the creditworthiness of the Freeport Authority. It is about the need for a state loan to refinance an existing loan of EUR 8.3 million, as well as a loan to complete an investment project of EUR 7 million, amounting to a total of EUR 15.3 million. As is well known, the transit and logistics sector is currently facing a number of challenges which require solutions at different levels. And taking over the port of Ventspils under state control, as well as the process of change, while migrated from the Freeport of Ventspils administration to the joint stock company “Ventspils Port”... has introduced fundamental changes, including with a significant impact on the possibilities for rapid... to attract additional credits within a short period of time for this old management structure to complete the investment projects that have already started. Therefore, this amendment to the law will provide an opportunity to receive a state loan for the crediting of construction credits, in fact ensuring the creditworthiness of the Freeport Authority... such an adequate continuation. The Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U9	Thank you. Members have not applied for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to Ventspils Freeport Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! On – 53, against – 19, refrains – not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U10	The Commission also supported it at first reading when examining the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U11	Members have applied for a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U12	Thank you. I believe that the additional EUR 15.3 million requested is the consequence of the unthinking and accompanied action of the new Conservative Party... acting very subjectively and unseenly on the issue of the port of Ventspils. In my opinion, relocating EUR 15.3 million to taxpayers' shoulders is an excessive and unjustified burden. Consequently, I believe that inconsistent action... that this company is... is practically on the wall of insolvency, should take responsibility for Mr Feldman and the New Conservative Party, which has done everything to put this economic entity in economic difficulty. Now it is up to all taxpayers of Latvia to be responsible for political mistakes and unseen actions, because taking additional debts after a certain period of time will be for all residents of Latvia. I do not think this is acceptable. I am not in favour of this draft law, I am not in favour of additional borrowing, taking up and imposing burdens on citizens, and I am also asking the other Members accordingly not to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U14	So, I may briefly explain why it is necessary to borrow, because I understand that it is not all clear why such a draft law... the law is necessary. But in fact, the situation is that in previous times both the managing body of the port and the municipality have not been far-sighted for many years and have not predicted that transit in Latvia and the transhipment volumes of the port could decline in some way, as a result of which the flow of money in the port could also decrease. Although, in fact, Russia has already reported in public several times that transit... They plan to channel all their cargoes to their ports, not to transit through Latvia or other countries. In practice, even in these times of crisis, Russia is driving all of its cargoes through its ports – they are far from so shiny and do not have an upward curve. Accordingly, these transit volumes are falling in Latvia as well, and these volumes are falling in the Freeport of Ventspils. It is clear from its own point of view that this financial revenue also falls in the port of Ventspils. Also, because the Freeport of Ventspils was included in this, let's say, on the black list or sanctions list, banks no longer have any interest in cooperating with the port. As a result, borrowing is needed to secure, refinance and complete the investment projects undertaken. And not just some borrowing, but borrowing on market terms – with corresponding interest rates and so on. In order for such an option to be possible, it is necessary to amend the law... where this credit could borrow from the Treasury. I would not like to agree that this is in some way a burden on taxpayers, as the port will provide for credit payments in accordance with the set credit agreement, the set schedule, the fixed interest rates and payments. Unfortunately, I cannot answer for the fact that I had not been far-sighted in the past and did not know that cargo would fall in the ports, because personally it was clear to me from the first day when working in the government and the Saeima, and in fact it was clear to me long ago. It was clear, however strange it would also be, for one of the most significant people of Ventspils, who has talked a lot and dictates about it in public space that a drop in cargo from Russia is expected. So I can't see why I don't support the bill and why I blame something that is currently in power, which only eliminates the shortcomings that have been created in the past, and takes appropriate action, maximising and making the port more efficient... Why some such action... Are you talking to me at all? I therefore call on you not to take these criticisms into account and to support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U15	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U16	Dear Latvian society! Let us now put questions together, both for ourselves and for the UKP. Is it not true that, from the moment when the JIP is government and the JIP is responsible for traffic, education and justice, we have not experienced a dramatic degradation – economic, legal... the nature of the degradation? Answer that question. I will start with examples. The Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport Jānis Butāns, who has never had any connection to traffic in his life, except for compensation of EUR 40 at his parliamentary secretary's several thousand salary (this is his only connection to traffic), says that everything that has happened in the port has happened because it should simply have been and should have been planned. But what I would like to recommend to Janis Butāns, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport – to board a bus for compensation of 40 euros and to go to Klaipeda. It's not that far. The limits are not closed. You can rest in Klaipeda on holiday with your family or working day for taxpayers' money to go and see the terminals of Klaipeda port, see the amount of cargo there, see how life is melting there, how business is melting there. And it's melting much more there than in Ventspils, Riga and Liepaja. Why is that? Because BIP always (always! – I emphasize) has lied to the public, has always acted to degrade. Ports are one example. Rail is the second example. Since the Minister is from KPP – Linkait – our railway is going only worse. Since Minister for Linkaith's traffic, our ports are empty. Why? Because it is thanks to the BIP that we have succeeded, I am sorry, in concealing our ports with the same sanctions, which were in fact initiated by the BIP. This is demonstrated by Mr. Bordan's beautiful and courageous statements some time ago. If we look at this degradation and the lies, I would ask each Latvian citizen how long you will continue to believe in the JIP. The UKP has promised you “3 × 500”. Today, the UKP has once again voted against an inequitable minimum of EUR 500. The UKP promised you a fantastic education system. You, dear viewers, listeners, voters, Latvian society, don't even know if schools will be in the autumn. You know that the Minister of the UKP has a Pandora box with which she wanted to spoil the University of Latvia, the largest university in Latvia, and, thank God, she lost. All that's happened in traffic... You can look at the roads you are driving, look at the pits that are in Latvia's roads, and compare it with Lithuania, with Estonia, to compare it with what Minister Tālis Linkaits says. Minister Tālis Linkaits tells you that funds for building roads will decrease. At the same time, he does not say that we have two institutions that are responsible for the maintenance of such infrastructure – “Latvian State Roads” and “Latvian Road Maintenance” – which, in essence, do the same for each of the 300 and how many people’s states. Maybe we should have one such institution? Maybe with a smaller state? And maybe then we would have more money for those who do than for those who monitor. Perhaps then we should not also have the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Butan, whose only connection to traffic is compensation of EUR 40 for taking a bus to the expense of taxpayers' money, but maybe then we would have people able to attract ports at the level of the freight government. Because ports attract cargo at government level. This government and responsible for traffic – BIP – Latvian ports, Latvian railway and Latvian roads have attracted nothing. It's just degraded. As with education, as with science in fact, because the only thing we have in science is that Mrs Šuplinska apparently will go to Mars in space. But maybe it is necessary – in politicalism with one-way ticket. The biggest achievement the BIP plans to make in the Latvian economy is to build the world's largest Fuko pendulum in the television tower. Obviously, the extension of the pride of the Minister will change around his axis and we will be able to see Latvia's landscape from above to our collapsed roads, the collapsed ports, our failed railway, the failed “3 × 500” that was voted against today, because there are 54 million, but we need the world's largest Fuko pendulum, while people are denied the benefits and help during the crisis. We need twice as much as a prison in Liepaja – twice as expensive! – than a modern prison in Estonia has just been completed. We need it because there's a sponsor's money in there. And then you will be told before the elections to the Riga City Council that you will plant millions of trees – 700 football grounds with trees in the center of Riga. And then you will be told by the new mayor from the UKP that during the year she will build almost how many thousands of apartments there – 50 or how many homes in the center of Riga. And you will believe again. How long will you believe in BIP, people? When do you have enough? When will you realize that everything you say in the JIP is a lie? Everything – from the first to the last sentence, from the first to the last stop, from the first to the last speaker, from the first to the last Member – is all the lie. They tell you that there will be uncompromising justice. You yourself know how many times they have violated the law by voting against what is laid down in the Constitution by voting against medical wages that are provided for by the law. Is that uncompromising justice? Is the rule of law uncompromising in any country in the world a parliamentary secretary at the Ministry of Justice whose court is about serious crimes? He is also, by the way, the head of the Legal Commission, his name being Jurash. He is also shown on TV, dear viewers. The fact that his family, a family member, serves the criminal world, is the so - called thieves in the law. And could it not be that these services – how much is there – in the amount of half a million euros from a bank that is now being wound up, also have a bribe for one particular person? Could it not be that our minister – and the UKP – who opposes the oligarchs and often mentions the same poor old Lembergs, is not a man who has worked as an insert at Andra Šķele and whose wife has served Meroni, and who has made transfers in his own company in coordination with the Meroni people? Could it be that these people who fight against the oligarchs are, and have always been, genuine oligarch inserts? Because they've never worked in business. They have never understood what business is. They have been inserts that they put somewhere because they can promise. They know how to say that they are put in so that everyone likes them. And then you believe, dear society, then you believe in the JPN. You believe that there will be a better life if there are people in power who constantly lie about everything. I will answer you: there will be no better life. Better life will not be until you wake up until you open your eyes until you clear these people. That is why, today, its honest answer is exactly what my colleague, Lubova Švecova, said. This is the law that will impose on you, as taxpayers, the current additional burden on your already high taxes. Because it's also what Bordan wants with the new cadastral values. You will have to pay twice, three times and even five times more from 2021 or 2022. Then you will be proudly told that you will be put on a minimum wage of 50 euros or will be released by real estate tax for the sole house, actually also destroying the real estate market, which already slows down, thank God, so far not as much as the railway, as the roads or as the ports. You have to put a point on, dear company. Now you have to get up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U17	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U18	Dear colleagues, Now, once again, listening to the idea of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, there is no doubt that Latvia's transit sector days have unfortunately been counted. Colleagues, first of all, the port of Ventspils is quite a special port and is in a rather special situation not only because of Russia and Russia's wish to reorient all its cargoes to its ports (this concerns not only the port of Ventspils, but also the port of Riga and the port of Klaipeda, and all the ports of the Baltic States), but also because it was due to the new conservative party, precisely because of its Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns that the port was placed on the sanctions list. What Mr. Bordāns himself not only did not hide, but in fact was proud that he had succeeded, including placing the port of Ventspils on the sanctions list. And that's why the Ventspils port has its special financial problems. So we are now in a rather amusing situation that the New Conservative Party, which achieved itself that the Ventspils port was included in the sanction... In the list of US sanctions, why the Ventspils port now has many additional financial difficulties... To compensate for all this, now the New Conservative Party offers us to lend taxpayers' money, because otherwise the port of Ventspils is not able to borrow privately. Well, this really... Even TV series would probably find it more difficult to come up with a more shocking scenario. Secondly, colleagues, if we... I invite you to think about the idea of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. He now claims to us that the Latvian transit sector, in fact it ends, has been counted because Russia plans to send all its cargoes only through its ports. Following this logic, it is clear that Latvian ports will never even have a business there and that any money that will be lent, including the Ventspils port, will not be lent... returned because Russia will continue to move cargo to its ports and this will only get worse and worse. Soon the new conservative party will most likely invite Lithuanians to break down all of our railway tracks in Latvia. Of course, Lithuanians, as we know, have already accumulated quite a lot of experience. If the logic of the Parliamentary Secretary is followed, then no money may be lent to the transit sector for the development of ports. Because we also see that, at the drop in cargo, which was also achieved by the New Conservative Party, this actually crisis in the transit sector... Does this in any way concern either the New Conservative Party responsible, at least formally, for the transit sector, or the Minister and Parliamentary Secretary of that Party, or the Government? Can we see how some crisis groups are being called up, how some plans are being prepared, how can we find solutions in the transit sector? No, we don't see anything like that! We're... What we see is that the government and the New Conservative Party responsible for this sector have actually written off the transit sector. It has written off the transit sector and is now calling for us to be allowed to lend taxpayers' money to the transit sector. If Mr. Butan himself is not able to put together two and two and is unable to build some logical chains that are longer than a few centimeters, colleagues, that does not mean that you are unable to do so! So, again. With all that the New Conservative Party and the Government do, or more precisely, do not, with the transit sector, any call to lend taxpayers' money to the transit sector is highly suspicious, colleagues. This must be taken very seriously. That is why, with urgency, support several million euros... taxpayer – I stress! - loaning money to the port, the transit sector, which the government itself, the New Conservative Party itself, has actually written off... I believe that this cannot be supported, colleagues! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U19	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U20	In response to what Mr Butane said, I would like to add. He really said one very important thing in his speech. And it's that this loan is taken from the Treasury, it's one. And the Treasury manages the accumulation, reallocation and future flow of financial resources of both the Latvian budget and additional transactions. Another very important moment from what Mr. Butane has said is that it really needs this loan only because of the private banks... or say so, the financial institutions working in the private sector, banks, refused to finance this project and future projects. Part of the money is needed for refinancing projects already under way, part for completing or launching new projects. Thus, 15,3 million is the concrete result of the actions of the New Conservative Party. Annotation of the draft law was a document of limited availability up to a certain stage, although the public space has long spoken about 15.3 million, which is necessary to continue these projects in the port of Liepaja. But it was not shown or reflected anywhere that this money was needed because the ports had turned to financial institutions and banks and refused to grant their funding. And it turns out that the Treasury will now invest in these projects, where the financial sector refused to invest, at better interest rates or on more advantageous terms. So by nature, Latvian taxpayers, all citizens, this project provides an additional burden – an administrative burden and a financial burden. I cannot support draft laws which, in the future, undermine the well-being of all citizens and increase the increase in debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U21	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U22	Yes, I would just like to add to the above that I have been working in the transport sector for more than 10 years, so maybe I'm a beginner, maybe something more – it's hard to comment, but experience has been accumulated in some way, and I can also say... For example, if you're talking about a drop... The drop in cargo in the port of Ventspils can be compared to the port of Klaipeda, where that drop in cargo is also noticeable this year. Maybe it's not so big, because the circumstances why the loads are falling are different. For example, I recently visited the municipality of Saulkrasti and discussed Skulte’s port activities. The port of Skultes is mainly local cargo-oriented, and for them this drop is also less severe, and this drop is due to the fact that it is these Russian transit cargoes that have stopped. If there are other types of cargo, this fall is smaller. We are also working for ourselves to make Ventspils and other big ports, for example, work with both local cargo and potentially Belarusian cargo... For example, for carriers such as SCHWENK Latvija, which are cement carriers, for the same grain carriers, wood and industrial... carriers... Its negotiations have been numerous and varied. Also, the recently opened rail route from the herring, where oil transport has now started. For the railway... It will be an important support for Latvian railway, it will be a transport of quite significant tonnage. And accordingly, ports also have opportunities. But one thing is for us to take care of these loads politically, the other thing – to be these... in ports ready to serve these cargoes. And that's something we can't do at all, because it's a private business. That's one. The other – I also want to... on refinancing and financing. Just like... In ports, like in families – if he takes, for example, a mortgage to a house and his income allows as much as he allows, it is clear that by asking for another credit for a bank or if the income falls, the banks refuse these credits to lower incomes and are no longer ready to lend. It is therefore necessary to restructure this financial flow, which is also the case of the port of Ventspils, that it is necessary to simply restructure the cash flow. The banks, when they see that these revenues are falling, are not prepared for such a risk. That's why we need... also public intervention to prevent money being thrown out of the wind, investment projects have been launched. They have been begun many years ago, we will not leave them on a side-by-side basis, but let us complete them and let us be reasonable, let us not leave them half-completed... Whether they are access routes, industrial zones or other investment projects – they still need to be completed and simply reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U23	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U24	Good afternoon, everybody! When I listen to this debate, I have a valid question as to whether those who are trying to defend this draft law in general have become familiar with the draft law as to why it is necessary. Either they have not done so or they have deliberately attempted to mislead us all to get through this bill. I'll tell you what's defaulted. I believe that this draft law... This is an example of how irresponsible, unthinking and permissive our country is currently being managed, because this draft law is nothing other than the result of this irresponsible power. That is, the real reason why it is necessary to decide on this bill today and to figure out such a cunning scheme as it has never been, against which it was opposed – in principle opposed! – also the Legal Bureau – because one six months ago a fixed idea came to the mind of someone that it would be possible to eliminate Ventspils port, free port administration and instead create a new company “Ventspils port”. That's the main problem, why now banks don't want to continue lending it all, don't want it... to provide funding, there are not those downfalls in turnover and so on – all of them are silly, because there's an adequate guarantee at the bottom of everything. As a rule, banks are doing so, because in the present situation, this port could be a good creditor and banks would be willing to give it money. But the problem is that banks say, "We don't understand. Tell us, what is the Freeport of Ventspils Authority and what is the “port of Ventspils”? At what point do some functions borrow from each other?’ Since the government itself will not make this clear and nobody is clear about what to do here in the double governance structure, where no one knows what will answer, who will own, then that's the main reason why the banks put on a break, says: "Stop, stop, stop! If you don't understand what you will do, then we won't give you money." And that's right. Moreover, those officials who still understand that soap is rude and that it is full oat, I am sorry, they also openly say that this is a project of high-risk financing, so we simply cannot tell you that money needs to be provided. That is why this scheme, which has never been, has been invented. The Saeima has never decided to do so. This is a precedent when the Saeima suddenly states in a sectoral law that it will be necessary to give money to projects about which it is not clear what these projects are. This will be the next story. It is in principle – we go through this side. And what happened? The Treasury said that no money could be given to such a project. The Minister for Finance is therefore not entitled to ask for money for such a project. So he decided to make the Saeima a wall, and so now it is urgent to bring this project, such a bill, so that the Saeima could legitimise this government's incompetentness and lenientness so that it could now be given money, taxpayers' money, the money of society as a whole. There are 15 million prayers, but if you look at the bill, there's nothing like that. We will go back to this, we will now go through the principle thing, the pros and cons that is going on, because the public should understand what is going on now, with what responsibility, with which permissiveness is currently being decided on millions. So you need this money. We are told that it is 15 million. We're going to go back to them. So. What's going on? At present, the Saeima... It is necessary for the Saeima to be the one legitimising such risky giving of money. Perhaps even... it will actually be presented. It's happening... So the government says it is urgent. Do you know when this decision was made in the government? When was the draft law prepared? 16 June. It's more than a month before. It was held until the last moment and now suddenly throws us into the table when July 21 is. More than a month has passed, and they say: “Suddenly! Two readings must be adopted today, namely this draft law." And all kinds of fairy tales are told. None of these stories appear later in the bill. You were told that this money will be needed in concrete terms... At least we were told by the Commission what projects it would need. Then what problem is to record these projects specifically inside this draft law and to say concretely – still so large amounts for such and such projects. No, no! This has not been done. I don't think they were so stupid and couldn't record it, but they made it on the contrary, they made it different. The draft law is now designed to (not to be heard.) ... It's only government that's going to figure out. That's... It is a real aero again, which is being made in the cover. Yes, indeed, there are the projects that are necessary, which it would be right to continue, for which funding is necessary. But I do not know what it will be for, because the Saeima will have absolutely no control. So what you want to do is urgently to drive out to the blind through such a draft law, where there is an acceptance of the Saeima, which, in essence, says: “Well, as far as you want, whatever you want, to whom you want, to what conditions you want... You will be able to give the money." And it's trying to drive it through, not as normal as it should, through the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and with budget appropriations, but in such a completely unique way. It is a new, bright statement of "uncompromising justice", "responsible". ‘ Fairly, “courageously” and as yet you did. Indeed, it is now being done, but not too intelligent, to recognize. Go on. So no one has been able to explain what will happen then... What I'd like to hear... Those who were ready to vote on it today explain how their governance model will then be! As we are talking about the fact that this owner and guarantor will be the port authority. What happens then – it stays, doesn't stay? How then will there be a rent for the “Ventas port”? How will all of this work with each other (not to be heard.) ... so that these risks do not exist? Because if the banks didn't want to give, that's... there are reasonable risks. And the Treasury also pointed out these justified risks. That is why this scheme is being developed. They said: “No, in this we cannot give the Ministry of Finance the right to draw money from us. The Saeima now needs to get involved.” What I would like to see in this bill, so if we talk about it and that money really is needed, and because of the stupidity, imprudentness and political ambitions of this government, really these many projects must be saved, then concretely, the draft law should show what these are about, how much and under what conditions they will be done. I am also interested in what it was not able to answer – how will these loans be secured? Because these loans are dreamed of being described as being a municipality that will guarantee it. And what's strange is because all this heresy started precisely because this port's management structure was changed and the municipality was thrown out of it. As a result, the main guarantor disappeared, the main pillar of stability on which the entire financing scheme was based. If we read an annotation, it has been said that no agreement has yet been reached. That's delicately said. This means, in essence, that there is also no guarantee for that money. Therefore, I would like to hear from those who are ready to vote for it today – please give your reasons why you need such a draft law right today, this day, urgently one day to pass through, and make a draft law not about what is being said, what is being offered in the annotation, but... that there are those specific projects, concrete amounts, but let the Saeima give such a breakdown as this distribution, by which government can divide anything it wants. Well, then for me the question is, we really live in a democratic country where the leaders of the people are at all some kind of... reason to decide something, to do something, to do something... Is there anything to do with them? In this case, that bill on the blind... fools are offered... To vote on it all, and then the wise government will do as she wants it, as it is better for her. I too... I answer them – what is it about the banks that we are now saving? What are these construction companies, to whom the money will now go, the millions? How reasonable... How reasonable are they at all? What are the rates of this funding at all? Under what conditions will this funding be provided? Because what's written... Once again that amusing term in this all-- in this statement that on market conditions such... in such cases. But the market conditions for such cases are such that they are very unfairly expensive rates or do not give them at all. Because, as we can see, the market is not ready to finance such projects with such huge risks... the percentage of risk, where there is no certainty as to what will happen to this port. And this is not about a drop or a change in turnover. It doesn't matter at all here at the moment. The principle here is that this organisational scheme created by this mile, this irresponsibility which those who have created it do not understand for themselves what to do with it. That is why I would call for the opposition... I'm so sorry... because in this case I believe that this is not the law, this is pornography that you do. And I call on the opposition not to take part in this pornographic act in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U25	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U26	Yes, I fully join my colleagues from the opposition that described this bill. In particular, I would also like to support what Mr Zarins said about this process. I think on his behalf... the process he has named is the whole e-Parliament, but I think we should also express our attitude to this draft law. And I would like to understand, let us say, what stage is now going through the UKO. Whether these are any of the challenges of consciousness or something even stronger, because in fact we saw two episodes today – the first episode was that the vote against the inevitable minimum... We can read a recent record from one of the JIP Members, in which he expects with concern that there will be great challenges in the budget negotiations and a great deal of resistance to the insurmountable minimum of 500. At the same time, something happens suddenly, and Members themselves from the JCPOA are voting against their idea today. So they themselves create this resistance. And now a new episode of Ventspils port. So at the beginning, in December, the JRC Members themselves go to the US, ask for sanctions, and now they say... Mr. Butane says that they could not even imagine that something like this would have happened – that there would be a drop in cargo and a port of Ventspils... The Freeport will be the first place in terms of cargo drop. Well, there really must be some particular stage here, special, let's say, yes, I don't know... such a special state of consciousness as to say something like that and even think about it. In this case, I believe that participation in this soap bubble party, which the government is calling on to do with this bill at the moment – really give it money without a development plan, without any... Let's say, maybe some of the Saeima's control mechanisms – that's the purest madness. And I think we should vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U27	Thank you. I closed the debate. What is to be said on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U28	On behalf of the Commission, it is only the fact that, according to an argument... According to the statement, the provision of a state loan – not a grant of money, but a state loan – is planned in full... And so to ensure it... The value of forced sale of the pledge is equal to or greater than the balance of the loan, as well as providing for the property of Ventspils Freeport Authority or Ventspils Municipality as the objects of the pledge. It has also been pointed out that Ventspils City Council, which is an interested party in this case, has also made a positive decision about further use of four municipal property as a pledge object. So that would be on behalf of the commission. By the way, the commission, too... as the first decision also decided to ask for a second reading without re-examination, but at the beginning it is more for the chair of the sitting to... Take note. But at first, the Commission asks for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to Ventspils Freeport Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For – 59, against – 8, refrain – 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. I call for the procedure chapter now to be opened. I understand that the commission has called for the examination of the draft law at second reading without re-examination by the commission responsible. I therefore call on Members who object to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible. Member Jūlija Stepanenko has applied, and Member Ivars Zariņš has also sent a written request that she does not agree with the draft law at second reading without having to submit a proposal. Member Aldis Gobzems also opposes the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible, as well as Regina Ločmele-Lunova. One Member's opposition would be sufficient. Members therefore object to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U30	I am very pleased that there will also be another opportunity today for us to expand our discussions on this draft law, because I am always here and the whole of our Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission is ready to work in contrast to those Members who object here to a second reading re-examination... and he doesn't even have that commission himself. In this respect, however, the deadline for the second reading is 15 minutes. And... Consequently, the second reading could take place at the next extraordinary sitting, which could also be today. And I informed you in advance that the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy could take place today at 14.00.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U31	I ask you to open a new section of the procedure. Dear colleagues, Member Ivars Zarins has sent a written proposal to set a deadline of at least 30 minutes. So please open a new section of the procedure. Are there other proposals for setting a deadline for second reading? I have a question for IT platform managers – have Members applied to talk about the deadline? Cannot apply. Please open a new section of the procedure. Can't you get a new one? Those who have applied... Who's signed up? Because at the moment, the chair does not see this, who has applied to speak on the deadline for tabling proposals. Please, Mrs Aija Winters, who of the Members has applied for? So everyone. Thank you. Please name Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U32	I urge that 45 minutes be given to tabling proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U33	Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U34	Yeah. ( On the background, you can have a conversation.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U35	Member Gobzem is not available. Member of Gobzem, do you have a deadline for submitting your proposals? Without your conversation... without your conversations with your customers...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U36	Yes, I have a proposal. Mrs. Mūrniece, you must know better about those customers, you have a longer experience... I join Julia Stepanenko... I join...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U37	Deadline for the submission of proposals... 45 minutes. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U38	Hello! What is happening today is another testimony...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U39	Deadline for the submission of proposals... Mrs Ločmele-Lunova, the deadline for the proposals to be submitted to this...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U40	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be one month.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U41	One month. Please turn on the microphone for Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U42	Dear colleagues, I think what is happening here is absolutely unacceptable because the issue of EUR 15 million for taxpayers...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U43	Time limit for submission of proposals, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U44	... the loan is not viewed in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U45	Deadline for the submission of proposals for a draft law...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U46	... But the economies...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U47	Mr Dombrovskis, the deadline for tabling proposals for the draft law...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U48	One month and one day.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U49	One...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U50	One month and one day.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U51	Thirty-one days? Is it thirty-one days?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U52	Well, it depends on the month.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U53	One month and one day. Please, Zariņš... Mr. Zarins already had a proposal – 30 minutes, if? Please turn on the microphone member, Zarins, who already had the proposal – 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U54	Yeah, well, I'd like to make it clear then that actually in 15 minutes...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U55	No, so the deadline for submitting proposals... So how many are you...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U56	... justify your 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U57	No, the exact deadline for submitting proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U58	(Sound defect.) ... justify your 30 minutes. And, sorry, don't stop me and follow the parliamentary roll, because I'm speaking right after the procedure...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U59	... 30 minutes. So Members have each applied for their own deadline. So we have to vote for the next one, which was Vjačeslav Dombrovskis... – one month and one day. Please open a new section for the vote. Can we vote? Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals for the draft law “Amendment to Ventspils Freeport Law” – one month and one day! Please, let's vote! On – 22, against – 48, refrained – 4. This proposal is therefore not supported. The following was the proposal from Member Lochmele-Lunova. So one month. Can we vote? Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals for the draft law “Amendment to Ventspils Freeport Law” – one month! Please, let's vote! On – 24, against – 51, abstained – 3. This proposal is not supported. The following was the proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko, to set a deadline of 45 minutes for the submission of proposals. Can we vote? Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to Ventspils Freeport Law” – 45 minutes! Please, let's vote! On – 28, against – 50, refrained – 1. The proposal is therefore not supported. Member Zarins has put forward a proposal to set a 30-minute deadline for the submission of proposals. Can we vote? Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to Ventspils Freeport Law” – 30 minutes! Please, let's vote! On – 29, against – 50, refrains – not. Consequently, this proposal has also been rejected and the Commission's proposal remains in force. The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes. So today, 21 July 2020, until 13.45. And consideration – the panel asks for consideration at the next extraordinary meeting. Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, So on behalf of the Commission, Member Krišjānis Feldmans announced today the planned meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please turn on the microphone for Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U60	Colleagues! Remote meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption – 20 minutes after the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-21-PT13-2106-U61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda of the sitting. I would like to inform you that the Bureau intends to announce a further extraordinary sitting today. Two commissions will also work today. So I'm closing this sitting. I'm sorry, Members' registration. Registration successfully completed. Thank you all today. I'm closing the sitting.
