ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2160-U1	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 1 December 2020. On the agenda – transfer of the draft law to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Feldman, Schnore, Kirštein, Ģirgen, Možville and Jušas be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, according to the draft law ‘Amendment to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions’. ‘ For” applied... So Ivars Zarins has applied for a “for” speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2160-U2	Can I hear you?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2160-U3	You can.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2160-U4	Colleagues! This is a draft law tabled by the coalition Members. Unlike the previous draft law, which proposed to stop the increase in remuneration for the members of the Cabinet of Ministers and parliamentary secretaries to all 13. Saeima time, this bill offers to freeze remuneration for only one year. Then with the next year's jump pay will rise. This draft law saw daylight after the opposition collected signatures for the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima within one day, in order to achieve that today's meeting was convened to consider the draft law submitted by the opposition member last week on stopping the increase of the Cabinet's salaries for the entire period of this parliamentary term. This draft law presented by the coalition is obvious to the coalition, realizing that to implement two different realities of life – one for itself, the other for the rest of society – will not succeed, has been created to urgently save its contemporaries and to demonstrate that this power has not yet come from reality and is ready to be with the rest of society. What is currently happening is very much in common with a story that it would be very useful to mention here. In other words, the sea had been revolted by powerful waves. Each of them was bigger than the previous one. Like a giant vest, they swung and swung off the shores of the sea, and it seemed that the sea would immediately leave its shores. Everything was washed away, but the rocks were still on hold. And it happened that a drop of the sea, along with a wave, rose up against the rock high, high in heaven above all, and cried out: “I am! I am the most important, because I am higher than all other drops!” The other drops tried to point out to him: “We are not worse than you, we are all important, we are all making a wave together.” But this drop was arrogant: “I am higher than all men, and all things. I am the peak of the wave itself! Without me, the wave is not a wave!” When the lower drops heard such arrogance, they stopped to base themselves on the higher ones, and the waves, like the sea, collapsed. No drop could even stand up as a centimeter, but the rocks continued to stand in their power, ready to withstand the worst waves, because each grain held tight in place and supported each other. Because they knew that only being together, standing firmly in place, they are a rock, but separately – just sand, in no way flowing. I call for the draft law to be supported by all those droplets that have emerged from reality. If they can't come back to it in any other way, then at least in such a deplorable version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2160-U5	“Pret” has applied to speak to Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2160-U6	I will speak not against the bill, but against the demagogy and populism of the opposition that had previously been heard.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2160-U7	No, Mr. Feldman. One Member speaks about passing the draft law on to the Commission, and the other speaks against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2160-U8	Thank you for the explanation, I take note. And, of course, yes, as I did, so if someone does not agree with me, it is safe to vote 'no', but now that Mr. Zarins has applied to talk about a draft law before I can technically do it, it is... but as I repeat, you can also vote 'no' if someone does not agree with me. And that's the thing. On 20 November this year, the President of Latvia, in fact, as one of the highest nations... The leader, and also one of the top officials, set an example in this time of crisis. It should be stressed once again that this happened already on 20 November, calling on the Saeima to freeze his remuneration in the budget law. And its system in our country is that the remuneration of the President of Latvia can really be decided by the budget law, but the remuneration of ministers and other high officials cannot be done – a special draft law is needed. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the crisis is now at a time of rapid growth. And although the drafters of the budget have mechanically been following the current regulatory framework and indexed the salaries of the senior state officials, it is clear that the existing regulation has not been able to respond dynamically enough to these... the actual dynamics caused by the crisis, including the amount of remuneration received by many people in Latvia... in terms of volume, which is likely to decrease rather than increase, thus leading to an unintuitive policy course on which the Saeima must now decide. In this case, in order not to have a dissonance between the preparation of a purely technical budget and also the setting of this level of remuneration, and between reality, taking into account simple... As I have already said, the regulatory framework may have responded a little late to these changes in the economy... then, in fact, this draft law proposed by several coalition parties was also submitted. It is clear that in the coming year, comprehensive amendments should be received and adopted, in general reforming the remuneration of public officials, which is long-standing at the development stage and is only yet to be decided whether or not to move forward. In this respect, it is expected that from 2022 onwards, this new system could probably start working. If this is not the case, it is clear that the Saeima will have to make its assessment of the situation once again. It should also be said that the President was joined last week by several ministers – Linkait, Šuplinska, this week also Minister Ģirgen expressed his wish that the remuneration should be frozen. Thank you for that. Likewise, the State Audit Office will come today with a notice to freeze its remuneration. And it has happened thanks to this brave step of the President. And in this respect, it must be said, of course, that this draft law also needs to be improved within the Commission, firstly by clarifying legally this level of basic salary, which has been set slightly different since 2020. Likewise, proposals will be submitted in accordance with today's request to freeze their salaries. I think that is respectable. And it is the political elected officials, the politicians who lead the country, who need to implement this intuitive policy to some extent. At the same time, it should be stressed that Conservatives in general are in favour of small, well-paid and effective public administration, but solidarity is needed at the moment, not the implementation of mechanical policy, and therefore this draft law is about solidarity with society. I invite you to support and hand over to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-01-PT13-2160-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 58, for - 12, for - 13. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. So the agenda for the remote emergency session of November 23 will be discussed in 15 minutes, that is, at 18.20. I'm closing the sitting.
