ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We are continuing the examination of the agenda of the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 23 November 2020. On the agenda - second reading of the annual state budget and related draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act’. So the debate on proposal 1. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U2	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues! Today's endurance is required for opposition colleagues and patience for coalition colleagues. It will certainly be a long day, because important draft laws. This is one of them. We have already started yesterday discussions about the fact that it is not reasonable at this time, in times of crisis, to change the fundamental tax regime for small taxpayers and micro-enterprises. In my opinion, it is worth recalling the 2014 Stiks study, which showed that on the 48th century even more percentage of respondents said that they would not have started business at all if there were no access to the micro-enterprises tax regime. This, in my opinion, is a big argument for realizing that it is really a way for those who want to engage in their own economic activity to start doing so in a convenient, simple, yet relatively advantageous way. In 2016 - this was the time when the Minister for Economic Affairs was Mr Asheraden - the Ministry of Economic Affairs was asked to draw up a new proposal for a tax regime for small businesses. A year and a half passed, unfortunately, nothing wise was offered. Also now, when the new government came to the steering wheel, there were many promises that there would be a modern, modern, comfortable business regime for small ones. We also see that two years have passed, there are no genius ideas. And what you are offering on the ground is to destroy the tax regime for well-functioning micro-enterprises. Colleagues, you don't have to build. To destroy existing regimes does not mean creating anything new, modern and accessible for entrepreneurs. If you don't put anything in place, it is clear that these people will be forced to go out in the shadow economy or become employees simply if they are lucky if they find a job. And at a time of crisis, I think this is the worst thing we can wish our society. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U3	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U4	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, this micro-tax regime... This destruction under such war conditions is evidence of the absolute unphonedness of the government. And I think it's finally time to admit our mistakes. Like yesterday, as we saw, the government probably admitted its error, but it will never admit that it was so wrong. Just changed direction. With regard to cut-off benefits, we talked so far, so much, for so long about not making these cut-off benefits dependent on the European Commission's point of view and on harmonisation. No matter how fast it doesn't happen... We can see that it has still not happened that... At last, someone in the government must have discovered that it is not really possible to do so and that we must change this mechanism slightly so that we do not have to wait for this harmonisation. Because really we shouldn't have expected harmonisation in the spring, and we could have helped our entrepreneurs. Well, prick or wrong, but, well, its help was quite timely plus minus. That's why now... Also now, colleagues, maybe what the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia say, what entrepreneurs say, in which you are not listening, what the opposition Members say, in which you are not listening, maybe at least something, some part, some book of what you are... arrives at yours, say, in this bubble, at last make you think something needs to be changed. And the mistakes to admit are human. It's good. It is good to change these mistakes, because I expect that after the adoption of this budget, when you have a dinner together in the ministries, and when you note this budget as successfully completed, after some time we will have to meet for an extraordinary sitting and correct these mistakes. I really believe it will. If not now. At the moment, in these circumstances, let us say, to create uncertainty for those people who pay the tax, they pay the tax on micro-enterprises... Why do we hear all kinds of accusations that, behold, they do not participate there, I do not know, in shaping the social budget and so. But if you have created such conditions, such conditions for one, the other, and the third, why immediately condemn those who are legally acting according to the circumstances you create and now suddenly change these conditions? Because nobody, believe me, could not even predict... Yes, the negotiations were that this regime was not really suitable for such a time, but no one could even imagine that you were going through the weakest, because let us remember, and Mr Levit said in one recent interview, that the micro-enterprises tax regime was created in 2008 and 2009 to help entrepreneurs cope with the crisis. So there was a crisis. But now what do we have now? We're three years old now? What do we not have a crisis now? And that's why, even more so, I have a real misunderstanding about what the President of Latvia is also saying. When he lives in his castle, he doesn't see that we have a crisis, maybe... not perhaps but even more than in 2009. And in this crisis, destroy their allowance... the support mechanism created in the first crisis is inhumane. Now, you really want to probably free our land from all human beings in order to asphalt Latvia from one border to another and do what? You understand that those people will simply leave and there will be no one who will pay them, not even the tax on micro-enterprises, not even the tax on the country of risk? Colleagues, please think! Please do not harm Latvia as a whole! I ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U5	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U6	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, society! On the taxpayer of micro-enterprises and their impact on the economy and budget. I think that the solution to this problem is not the fact that it is not fair that a part of society would pay lower taxes than another part of society. The problem is different. And I'll explain. So in fact - it is also statistically visible - the taxes paid by micro-enterprises tax payers do not have a great impact on the state budget of Latvia. I would even say that there is in fact no impression. What does that mean? This means that, by its very nature, such a tax regime has been intended historically to enable people who work under this micro-tax regime to provide themselves for their own consumption: not to supplement the public budget but, in principle, to feed their families and pay taxes through other taxes, by spending this money in a shop, in a petrol station, when buying goods and services. There are, of course, exceptions. I would refer to a historic example. For example, as far as I am aware, Narvesen's kiosk has historically also been in the micro-enterprises tax regime, which, of course, is somewhat illogical, as the country has not seen for many years. But it's not a story. The solution to this problem is, of course, illogical, taking away the status of micro-entities and not offering anything instead. But instead of what should have been offered during the crisis, what can still be offered, especially if Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš said that we have a lot of money and billions of funds are available... Then the complexes of these problems should have been solved by raising not the minimum wage, as is currently the case... It is such a populist step and basically does not solve anything because of the... At the expense of other costs, the minimum wage does not change anything; the costs are more expensive for people. But the main problem is labour taxation. And for micro-enterprises, it is these labour taxes that are very important. Because small businesses are not able to pay the huge taxes on labour that exist in Latvia, unlike large enterprises, which may not feel the burden so pronounced, although in the context of Europe and regions in particular, of course, our labour taxes are, as usual, close to the highest. The solution that should have been in spring of this year (when the first funds were available) and which would be valuable for Latvia as a whole, all entrepreneurs, not only small, but also large ones, had to raise an inexpensive minimum. Not a minimum wage, but an inextricable minimum. The raising of an unnecessary minimum in these circumstances up to EUR 700-800 would have been something to do. The costs that would be set aside in the short term would be plus minus 800 million or billion, anyway. This is not crucial at the moment. But out of the funds that are available, which we were promised to have billions, we should have invested in raising the unnegotiable minimum, because that would help, above all... In particular, small businesses would pay higher wages and we would also approach other countries in terms of competitiveness. I would like to ask for time to be combined, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U7	You can talk. Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U8	In one word... in this context - why this is important. If we had raised the unobtrusive minimum much higher than the neighbouring countries today, then we would become more competitive with regard to neighbouring countries and two, even three... In the very short term, our competitiveness at all levels would increase in the country. At the same time, it would also help people, and at the same time we would draw close to the average level in Europe, as there is an inexpensive minimum in those countries where the workforce and companies from Latvia are flowing out. Since this issue is not being proposed, it would of course not be logical to abolish the tax on micro-enterprises at this time... tax treatment, because nothing is offered instead. This is the only solution. This solution is essentially the most important and urgent in our labour market. In principle, it is not urgent if we want to be able to compete with the region in which we live - Lithuania, Estonia, the Czech Republic, Poland, whatever - then it is the only one. The second option, which is in other countries, is that low-income entrepreneurs with a relatively small annual turnover are generally exempt from taxation. Yeah, why? Because these people do not actually play any role on the budget. Their work, their economic activities are solely focused on self-consumption, self-sufficiency and consequently growth. So the state must enable these people to develop, to grow their muscles, and the state does not suffer from it in any way. So that micro-entities could actually also consider tax exemptions at all, so that they could raise some muscle. But the main thing... Going back... The most important is the non-detachable minimum. And basically during this time of crisis, it could and should have raised up to EUR 800 in today's circumstances. It was physically possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U9	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U10	Dear colleagues, I don't know if many of you have understood this, but the authors of the proposal... Well, it can't be interpreted differently - they're disgusting about the government. For, I will read that proposal, that is to say, to ask the government to submit proposals for the introduction of a single economic account by the end of next year. So that you can understand... These proposals on the introduction of a single economic account - these are actually some of the sentences. You will see these... precise proposals... Next in the proposals... I'll be from Dana Reizniece-Ozola. And these are exactly the same proposals as legislation in Estonia. This legislation has been in place in Estonia, colleagues, since 1 January 2018. In Estonia, therefore, this single economic account has been in operation for three years. All that technology, if we are talking about legislation, as I said, there are some sentences. Therefore, when the proposers believe that the government needs a whole year to do so - well, that is, of course, an assessment of the capacity and strength of the government, well, nothing different. Because then it will happen, colleagues, that the government will submit it by the end of next year, then all of this... He'll sit in the commission, and then we'll have this... Well, five years of delay from Estonia - as usual. And so... When these proposals were presented separately in one... I think that the UK Member called them absurd. It's really absurd, well, why... we cannot, after all, have the same single economic account as Estonia in just three years' time. We need a five-year lag, so it will no longer be absurd. Well, here must be a UK colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U11	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U12	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Well, when we talk about this draft law "Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax", we need to look at how this process, which is linked to the design of the budget, is... The kitchen is whatever it is. Well, it is clear that the officials of the Ministry of Finance take first of all the budget for the previous year, all these positions affecting sectors and municipalities at the expense of what this situation was like this year, and then, taking into account the circumstances and the crisis at the moment, draw up the budget for the next year... next year. Basically there are officials who have been working for a long time, who know this order. And there are also certain of these people, I know some, but you know better. But then there is a proposal to the government. Of course, this proposal is more or less presented by the Minister for Finance, in this case Mr Reira. And the responsibility associated with this draft budget is certainly the responsibility of the finance minister first, and then the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the entire government, until it reaches the Saeima here. Well, Members of the Saeima have every opportunity and right either to challenge or to agree blindly. And when we look at this particular bill right now... amendments and proposals must be said in this way - not only as a Member, but as a normal Latvian citizen, it is not clear why micro-enterprises should be restricted right now, at this time of crisis. Well, it is true that for micro-enterprises, at first one of the main objectives was to get out of the underground, out of the grey zone, out of the tax fraud zone, those active people and honest people who are prepared to act legally. And so many were registered as representatives of micro-enterprises and have been working so far. It must be understood that the public does not currently support this proposal for tax changes and it is precisely the change in the tax on micro-enterprises. Well, you can't understand that taxes should not be levied in power contrary to democratic countries... the principles that citizens themselves understand that, yes, my taxes are maintained, say, public administration, protection, home affairs and so on, and they are willing to do so. Here, contrary to the interests of society, there is an imposition. Is this a democratic approach? It is rather a dictatorial approach. I don't know what it's about. With complexes of the Soviet system, or... Are those specialists who are still sitting in the Ministry of Finance living with such complexes? In any case, at this time of crisis, I think we should look at where we need to find reserves. And there's a lot of reserves. First of all, the official, for example, is the same Centre for the Coordination of Perresors. As far as I remember, there were previously 1.7 million in the budget. The National Development Plan has been developed, a new programming period. Well, what are they going to do this important year? You could go in there. Increasing the deficit. I agree with Mr Zile, a financial leader from the National Alliance - there too we could increase. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U13	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U14	Good morning, colleagues! I agree with what Mr Kazinovsky said just now that it is not the time to change this relaxed form of business such as the micro-enterprises tax regime. Yes, indeed, this regime was created as a result of the previous crisis, from the 2008 and 2009 crises. But those Members who worked 10 and 11. In the Saeima, definitely remembers that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission had a very large discussion and was also amended accordingly to transform this law into a business-promoting law. Because it is no secret that Latvia is a country with one of the lowest rates of business activity among European countries – not only the Member States of the European Union, but all European countries. Generally, they account for the number of businesses per 10 000 inhabitants. There are some other indicators, but Latvia has historically had the lowest figures in these indicators. Once we talk about the fact that our Latvian people lack the business gene. Well, then the question is how to promote it. My colleague Dana Reizniece-Ozola mentioned 2016. In 2016, therefore, the Ministry of Economics was indeed entrusted with the creation of a well-thought-out easing business regime. At the same time, it was done with the launch of a business incubator programme under the auspices of the Ministry of Economics and the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia. Business incubator programs can be said to have started the next stage of improvement. And this phase started in 2016, but it continues until the end of 2023. And in this programme, the business incubator programme - and it is about 14 regional business incubators plus a creative industry business incubator in Riga - it is planned that thousands of new businesses will be created and support for 300 existing businesses - small, medium and micro enterprises. This programme openly talks about micro-enterprises' regime as one of those regimes that promote business activity. And indeed, this business incubator programme is very closely linked at the moment to this micro-enterprises tax regime, this law that we are talking about at the moment. By making unthinkable changes that affect these young people who have just begun business - and often it is about students, because those business incubators, some of them have been created at regional universities and also in other places that promote business activity in the regions of Latvia - it may, in essence, undermine the significant progress made in Latvia's polycentric development. I therefore call for support for proposal 1, because proposal 1 does indeed mean that the government must finally develop what has not been done since 2016. It is possible to discuss the deadlines - which should have been done a long time ago - but nothing prevents us from repeatedly asking the government to do this task, to which we really do it in a modern way, as our Estonian neighbours, who look like it, have succeeded. Why not take advantage of the good experience? I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U15	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U16	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to take it myself (Not heard.) ... and to ask not only to maintain this regime and support the opposition proposal, but we must also understand that this regime was actually established and opened already in 2008, when there was a crisis where people could not bear the heavy tax burden and something had to be given. For the moment I think it was not only necessary to leave this regime, but to close the eyes at all and leave people alone. I think it's about three or four years after the community, when people will recover at all and three times think about what business to start and whether to start in Latvia at all, and whether to open an account in Latvia at all. Perhaps they will all fly to Estonia at all, and the accounts will be opened in Lithuania Paysera. Compared to neighbours who support not only materials with benefits and end-of-life benefits, they close their eyes. Don't touch it! There's no repression... not by penalties, they simply leave people alone so that they arrange their own things, so that they themselves understand what to do to them. They will activate our own economy. And all of them... money... budget... But we have some crisis... money from Europe. Let's leave people alone! I ask you to support both the opposition proposal and leave some sort of transition if you do not agree... For that transition period - just one two years so that people can somehow activate themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U18	Colleagues! Good morning! First of all... I'm talking about this offer. I think this proposal... If we support it, we could do essential things to really maintain this special tax regime. But what... I want to mention one number, and that number is 3.9. The figure 3.9 was made up by the Prime Minister together with the Minister of Finance. And the last days I can only hear it in the public space that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are those main perpetrators of such amendments. I can tell you what happens next. After you vote against the opposition proposals to change this special tax... To maintain this special tax regime, the government will say ‘The Saeima voted it’, and there will be no Reir or Kariņš, there will be ‘The Saeima is the parliament that voted and gave up the micro-entrepreneur regime’. And everyone will forget. And that 3,9 is what the budget deficit is, it's in the minds of all that we have to live on. We are the current leaders in the European Union with the lowest budget... one of the minimum budget deficits. If I don't beg you, we're the third on this list. All other countries think of how to support those who are able to take care of themselves, are able to produce in some way and do not become clients of the social budget. At the moment, we will produce customers of the social budget by means of this draft law without supporting this proposal. That, in my opinion, is not acceptable. And now there will be responsibility, not in the government, but in the members of the Saeima who have voted in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U19	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U20	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasise first of all that, of course, the micro-enterprises tax regime has so far served some entrepreneurs as a starting point, a good way of starting a business. That is beyond doubt. Of course, such a regulation was introduced, as others have said here, the previous speakers mentioned during the previous crisis and was intended for the time of the crisis. Well, unfortunately, because of the political fears, this restriction was removed. This has, of course, got up to the next crisis. That is perhaps not the best time to put an end to it, I agree. At the same time, it must be pointed out that two very important initiatives have actually been taken by this government and this Saeima. And one is: amendments to the Law on Support for Business New Enterprises, which will certainly help many of them, especially those entrepreneurs who are technology-related... for start-ups... So based on technology... and will really help them develop. It was corrected... and the changes made to much of what was done during the previous government, made this regulation, which is designed to be directly capable of... internationally capable entrepreneurs who develop their business activities in Latvia. It was, let's say, finished or samocite in the previous Saeima that almost nobody could use it. Within five years, it was only able to qualify for four companies. And this year, this Saeima... It was from the Saeima that there came an initiative to change... these amendments to the law... make this business regime also much... or support mechanisms more accessible. And more importantly, not only for technology entrepreneurs, but for all entrepreneurs, the so-called... Amendments to the share option law, which will now be in the third reading of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission immediately. And I will also call on the Saeima to bring this forward and adopt it as soon as possible. So this amendment will help... The amendments to the share option law will, in principle, help all entrepreneurs and start-ups, say, to distribute the company's shares more widely, thus making it possible to engage in business not only for owners but also for the first employees more attractive and interesting. Nor can it be said here that so... exactly the same principle as the amendment of the law... As of December 2020, the German Minister for Finance has just announced that such a stock option regulation is being introduced in Germany. And remember, yes, look at this, the Minister of Finance has come. From us... In this Saeima, it has to be said that this initiative comes directly from the Members of the Saeima. So thanking Members of the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-Commission, thank you also to Members of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, who are actively moving it forward. This will certainly be a good, facilitating mechanism for starting up a business, how to develop it both for those who work in the field of technology and for everyone else, as this business regulation will also apply to all other businesses. Since I am calling on the Saeima to do so without delay to support these amendments to the law, these two - hence the new company act supporting the law and also the so-called share options - will, in principle, help to ease and relieve what we will have lost by cutting this micro-enterprises tax regime as an option. So, yes, I would like to draw attention to them, tell people that such regimes will be available, and also regulation of these stock options to be adopted by the Saeima at the third reading without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U21	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U22	Good morning, colleagues! Going back to the bill that we are currently debating. I would like to emphasise that what is currently happening with this micro-enterprises tax regime, in what way the government is trying to address this problem, demonstrates the haughtiness, failure and incompetentness of this power, and I will explain why. So there is indeed a certain problem that has arisen with the tax environment for these micro-enterprises, which is that many use it for tax optimisation, for fraud. The problem needs to be addressed, and indeed it needs to be addressed. And how does this government deal with it? This government is dealing with it in a totally incompetent, weak and arrogant way, that is, they just figure out - we're going to get off. This is by analogy. By analogy - if you have a finger-scaring, you go to a doctor and he offers you not to pull this scaring out of your finger, but just to cut off... Cut off the whole hand. This is the way the government has been dealing with all the problems so far. Because it's frail, incompetent and absolutely haughty, it's not interested... It cannot even see the consequences of its decisions. An example of this was even the last one about an emergency: how this emergency was declared. An emergency... It was just suddenly thought that we had to declare this emergency. And it was announced, in what way? Just announced that in a few days everything will change in principle for certain sectors, for people who will be unemployed at all, for livelihoods, or for those who will not be able to continue their business... And, for example, what did restaurants do, which have suddenly learned about it and which have food storage? Of course, they organize shares so that they can sell this remaining product as much as possible. That's, restaurants... invites people to go to restaurants. It is clear that, as a result, we are waiting for an outbreak of Covide's disease in a few weeks. The blame is on the unconscious society, which, you see, tried to heal before they were prevented from doing so, even though the government was actually guilty of it with its stupid, unthinking decision. And just as it is for the environment of micro-enterprises. Instead of providing a solution, because the solution is absolutely necessary... If we want normal growth in our economy, we understand that small businesses need a different tax environment: firstly, another tax burden and secondly, a much simpler administration. If you're... If you want to change, you want to cancel this existing solution, which is really not perfect, is not perfect and which many abuse, then come with a new solution! You do not have such a solution, then work on it, and not just do it again in your traditional style, arrogantly. If we're talking... And what's interesting here? The previous speaker just told us about the other opportunities that will be created. So, if we are talking about start-ups, it is clear that it will only apply to those businesses that can take advantage of this possibility, either at least or at hand. If we are talking about this share option agreement or some option agreement that is now being made, then, colleagues, say the whole truth to the end. In such a way as you are now trying to implement it, in essence - what is happening? You are creating a new tax avoidance scheme, because in the way you present it, it will simply be a similar story, as it is now with micro-enterprises, that micro-enterprises were meant for small entrepreneurs so that they could start their business more conveniently. The share option agreement will also be used in a similar way - this is a way of circumventing taxes. In particular, by the nature of what you offer - you offer a new tax avoidance scheme. There were micro-enterprises produced by the previous political cuisine, and now the new political cuisine has built up a new solution for itself, in which tax evasion can be circumvented. And that will be what is going to be done widely, and we will come to the same situation as we are currently with the tax on micro-enterprises. So here, before you hit the medals at your chest and tell me what kind of mercenaries you have thought, do something once in a meaningful and reasonable way! And if we were now talking about this particular proposal, then in this proposal, that is the essence of the proposal, that we are talking about a single transaction account. If you can't even make it, if you can't... All right, you can't make a micro microlike new tax scheme for small entrepreneurs, then at least this - how to administer it more conveniently. Make this single tax account. At least you could. If you can't even do it, you're just completely frail, incompetent, arrogant, forgot in your ambitions...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U23	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U24	Dear colleagues, I must say positively that Mr Znotiņš, one of the members of the coalition, has also been involved in the debate. We expect the other colleagues in the coalition to be involved in this debate, and in my view, we should continue this discussion in a respectful tone, even if we are concerned that the overall result is that this budget would cause the least possible damage to society if not to zero. I understand that there is a very large difference of opinion between the opposition and the coalition, but it is likely that there is not a difference of opinion, but perhaps a coalition has simply not yet formulated its opinion. We will help to formulate that opinion. Because, Mr. Znotiņš, what you offered instead of this micro-business tax is definitely a good home... small businesses, for example working with websites and internet services. But if we are talking about farms, your proposal will not, in my opinion, help to deal with this situation with the new rules of the game that the government will have brought with 1 January. Let's think! Let us really think about people who have not only been caught in the purse but also what you are going to do with January 1. Let's think together, please. Let's talk today, let's talk tomorrow. I don't know how much we need to talk about it, but please let's get to a joint discussion so that people don't really suffer. We may still be able to agree. It's a parliament. We can discuss it here.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U25	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U26	Good morning, colleagues! In my opinion, this proposal must go back to the draft budget for 2021 as a whole. I believe that this budget does not provide answers to major macroeconomic issues that the government should think about during the economic crisis. First of all, there is no answer in this budget to what exactly the instruments we are going to overcome this crisis. There is no collection of data and scientific opinions on how impressive this crisis will be and what fiscal instruments would be best to overcome this crisis. The main question is what will be at the heart of Latvia's competitiveness next year, when there will be a crisis all over Europe, when there will be a crisis all over the world, and what will be at the heart of Latvia's competitiveness after... for the following years. Because listening to Mr. Znotiņš, the impression is that innovative companies are the driving force behind the Latvian economy. Is that so? Not at all, Mr. Znotiņš has an idea of Latvia's economy as a whole and of what threats we could expect next year if we implement the policies that have been put into tax changes this year. The State Revenue Service has only had to answer one question with this budget - will we increase tax collection, for example, by destroying small business, eliminating micro-enterprises' regimes as a class? Would it not give a greater effect, such as the fight against smuggling or any other zone of the black and grey economy with which the State Revenue Service does not go so bright? Of course, the most easy thing is to take and eliminate micro-enterprises as a class, without thinking at all that another great tool for overcoming the government crisis is to stimulate consumption. With what will we stimulate this consumption? By eliminating micro-enterprises, when people openly say that if we pay some kind of tax at the moment, then there will be no such tax at all, because we will leave the unemployed, we will stay at home, we will no longer pay anything for this country. Is this risk identified, and is there an idea of how large this sector is and its impact on total national consumption? And the last one. Changing tax policy during the crisis is a crime. You have been offered, honourable colleagues, a vote in favour of a transitional period of at least six months. You voted against. If you now vote against both this opposition proposal and, more generally, that the direction of our country in the economy is only the support of large and innovative companies with the complete destruction of small businesses, then the consequences will have to be answered. And these consequences will be - and very serious. Should we not simply look at countries such as Germany and their socio-economics, France, where the small business is the backbone of this country's economy and the expression of the country's mentality? Will we not lose part of Latvia's mentality and the spirit of Latvia by destroying the small business in Latvia? Ask your relatives who live in small towns and villages - what they think about this, what you will now do when you vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U27	The name to Member Rainis Znotiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U28	Yes, colleagues! In response to some of the comments made. First of all, I wanted to explain to Mr Zariņš that the amendments to the law on start-ups therefore apply at least to 400 companies at present... to existing in Latvia and gives potential to create, of course, a lot more companies, innovative... internationally competitive companies, those able to export. I also wanted to respond to Mrs Regina Lochmele that, yes, exactly so, the export of ICT to Latvia is, in fact, at the same level as in Estonia in terms of total volumes... i.e. exports of ICT products and services. So it is a very important part of the Latvian economy and, of course, not the only one. Of course, we also need to think about the development of other forms and forms of business, and that is why this regulation of stock options is being pushed forward. As I said, this will not only apply to ICT companies, but to all businesses. And just recently, in assessing a study by the Makenzi Group of Companies on the comparison of the business environment in European countries and in the US, it was the existence or absence of a regulation of share options in the context of the overall competitiveness of the economy that was identified as one of the five fundamental principles why Europe lost it. Other European countries, where there is no such regulation, have lost their lives in the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries where such regulation exists. A growing number of European countries understand this, appreciates the importance of such regulation. As I said, the German Ministry of Finance is now making this a huge priority. In France, this is the case, in Estonia, this is the case, and Latvia will also be among those leading countries - if we do not delay - where we will introduce and will really help to start a new business and... their development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U29	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U30	Thank you, Mr. Znotiņš. I would just like to point out that, of course, I do not question the importance of the ICT industry in the current situation of the Latvian economy and its development. I was talking about how to see the economy at both micro and macro level and throughout this system. And the problem is that this budget does not provide answers to the most serious economic development issues. The first is investment. Will this policy stimulate the entry of new investments into the country? The second question is: are there serious measures to change the structure of employment and to stimulate it? Because ICTs are developing, of course, but people living in this country have to work somewhere, they have to receive benefits, pensions or they don't know something to survive here. And if you eliminate micro-enterprises, where will these people go, they will work? What big companies? After eight months of unemployment benefit, will you learn programming? The question is: will we be able to maintain our competitiveness with this budget even at the level of the Baltic States? By the fact that with the same... with the changes that will be made in tax policy... Are our labour taxes, for example, competitive both in Europe and in the Baltic States? And the biggest challenge is that what we are going to do with this budget at the moment will not be what will stimulate our people once Europe is opened, to drive away from Latvia again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U31	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. ( Pause) Mr Kabanova, if you are in the debate, we can't hear you... We can't hear you... Mr. Cabanov, we still don't hear you. Let's give the floor to Member Zariņš, and then try to arrange a computer. Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U32	Yes, reflecting on what we have heard in the debate. Those who follow and who have even the slightest sense of the reality of things must have understood... when he tried to say that this existing tax regime could be replaced by those new proposals that are currently being proposed - it is a total absurd, complete remoteness from reality. Mr Znotiņš, you mentioned that they could be 400 IT companies that could be concerned. Do you know how much MUN is concerned - this tax on micro-enterprises? Eighty thousand employees. All right, let's assume that half of them are those who... to which these... in order to reduce taxes, but there are still tens of thousands of people who will not be able to continue their business, it will not be possible to maintain themselves due to your irresponsibility, your arrogance. What you have now arrogantly told us about it - you know, but our tax option... The possibility of stock options will not only be possible for start-ups, but also for other companies... That is what I have tried to explain to you at the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and, within five minutes, I have shown how others who want to chart will use this opportunity to circumvent taxes in order to avoid paying taxes... in order not to pay social security contributions to its employees, not to pay full tax. And no one can answer, like all this... how it will work to prevent it. So I would call you to come here responsibly and competently to what you are doing, not simply as in that anecdotes when you try to remove a man from a tree like their wolf out of the well. That's, just looked at how others did it, hung a tree... He hung up to a man's tavern and dragged him down from a tree. And he was dead. This is how you approach what is happening in the Latvian economy at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U33	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. ( Pause) Mr. Cabanov, we can't hear you... We still don't hear you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U34	Good morning, dear colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that proposal 1 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Valaiņa, Dūkes, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskas and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! On - 33, against - 54, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U36	2. - Proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. A limited liability company is also expected to be the owner of a micro-organism. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U37	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U38	Colleagues, this is really one of the limitations of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” – not only reduce turnover, do not allow micro-enterprises to be value added tax payers, but also prevent one-holder SIA from using this tax regime. Unfortunately, at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, when the debate on this restriction took place, we did not hear why such a restriction was necessary. The only argument mentioned by the Ministry of Finance was that SIA already has more complex tax administration and accounting, why they should still be registered in the micro-enterprises tax regime. That's not an argument, colleagues. In general, when we look at this draft law, you will see it in the annotation that is the purpose of these amendments to the micro-enterprises tax regime. One... First. It is said that it is not fair for a part of society to pay less than others and thus distort competition. Even more, I think colleagues, in one of the discussions, the Minister of Finance even said that because we have micro-entrepreneurs in Latvia, we do not have any investment. Colleagues, are you really serious about believing in the argument that a micro-enterprises tax payer can distort competition in Latvia and discourage investors? How can one company compete seriously with one to five employees in the economy with 100 and 500 employees and exporting entrepreneurs? In my opinion, anyone who understands much less from the economy understands that this is an argument for weak threads. Moreover, you say that everyone must pay the same amount of tax, then we must actually put an end to the new company tax regime. It also provides for reduced tax payments for high-growth enterprises. Mr Znotiņš, by the way, reminding us that it was not the previous government that corrupted the regime for these start-ups. The previous government in Mr Asheraden's name was the one who set up the regime for these start-ups. It was the only product that was created thinking about young entrepreneurs. And I also agree that it was necessary to create a much more successful and accessible range of companies... The second argument. Social security in micro-enterprises is insufficient. Then, colleagues, I will also remind you of some figures. The number of people working under the general scheme who pay social contributions from wages below the minimum wage amounts to 180,000, while the number of people working under the micro-enterprises tax regime who have lower social contributions than the minimum wage amounts to 35 thousand - three percent of the total employees. If this is the reason why the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance want to destroy this regime... And he really wanted it in all his positions. I remember when I was an economic minister, he was a finance minister, and he fought against micro-entrepreneurs. The Minister for Welfare may have had less of a say, but he also used all the means. Now, once again, when we return to this influential position, we see that one of the main policies is the elimination of micro-entrepreneurs. So this is the argument that needs to be put aside. First of all, there are 180,000 people working under the general regime and then there is a circle of micro-entrepreneurs. But, colleagues, for this particular proposal - a limited liability company... why this should not be allowed to be registered under the micro-enterprises tax regime. We understand that a person who carries out an economic activity at all bears a risk. And if we do not allow us to use SIA as a regime, it means that we further increase their risk to man. If there is a surcharge from the SRS with which a person cannot settle, then it may most likely end with the insolvency of a natural person, with greater social tension and, unfortunately, also with a wave of emigration. No harm to the fact that it would be allowed to continue to use the micro-enterprises tax regime of one person SIA, however, cannot be seen. Why eliminate this possibility is not quite clear. I call for support for this proposal, which, while maintaining all the other restrictions proposed by the Government, allows SIA to use the micro-enterprises tax regime as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U39	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U40	Yes, dear colleagues! A colleague from a position too, Mr. Znotiņš! I am not, in fact, surprised that you are ready to take part in this debate. I also told my colleagues earlier - Znotiņš has his arms, he will definitely participate! But now, by nature, Mr. Znotins! What you said is difficult to accept. First of all, you say that this regulation - the favourable tax treatment for micro-enterprises, small businesses, the self-employed and so on - is a solution to the crisis. That is absolutely not the case, Mr. Znotins! It's not so hard to see. There are several tax policy reviews created by international organisations. I can mention the World Bank, including the OECD and so on. You can look, Mr Znotiņš, and make sure that this is not a solution to the crisis. Favourable regimes for small business, business beginners - this is the norm, Mr. Znotiņš. It exists... I will not say that there may be exceptions in all countries of the world, but in the absolute majority - definitely. In the same Estonia, from which the Ministry of Finance is now trying to make a bad copy, in France, for example, what was recently offered, that is all. Go on. You say, Mr. Znotiņš, that such a regulation... Neither micro-enterprises can understand, nor the self-employed, most probably, nor the beneficiaries of the patent, and so on: nothing is needed, because you think that there is that new regulation for so-called start-up... technology or business start-ups. But now, Mr. Znotiņš, the same figures that you say yourself. Yeah, it's true. What was done by the Ministry of Economics at the time - in five years only four such companies. You yourself say that you see the application of this new start-up law to about 400 start-ups. Do you know, Mr. Znotiņš, how large is the number of entrepreneurs in Latvia, especially young entrepreneurs? There is a project called Global Business Monitoring (Global Entrepreneurship Monitor), a translation, according to the... performed each year by the Riga School of Economics for several years. Several years ago, I was the one who started and led this project at least in Latvia. According to the data of this project, there were, last year, more than 186 thousand young entrepreneurs in Latvia, that is, by definition, those who are future entrepreneurs, plus those who have created their business over the past 3.5 years. So 186,000. And now, Mr Znotiņš, so, the elections are not so far away, you are going with your party to those regional divisions, trying to set up a new chapter. It certainly is quite a large part of them more than 186 thousand people... You'll meet them in the regions. I absolutely guarantee this to you. And they ask you about what we then have with that new business regulation? And you tell them stock options. I would very much like to look at their reaction at the moment you tell them what you are telling us today - stock options. There will be stock options for you! Well, but by nature, Mr. Znotiņš, you actually, as far as I understood, offer all the transition to the legal framework of SIA. And I think that is to a large extent what happens is that all those who are now self-employed, the owners of micro-enterprises, the beneficiaries of royalties - they will set up their own SIA. That's in tax terms... Well, given that reinvested profits are not subject to tax, then there will be everything, so to say, for internal use and so, but they will not be relieved of, for example, the administrative burden, because this burden of reporting production to SIA is quite significant. As a result, its business activities will be severely impeded. And I would also like to thank my colleague. That's a little bit about another -- Mr. Kabanov showed us how teachers would then teach schools with masks. I think it was really very...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U41	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U42	Yes, colleagues! I would like to continue with this. It is really very interesting to hear that the alternative for the micro-entrepreneur will be stock options and start-ups - they will now be... Of course, if we look at it, there will be a lot of entrepreneurs, that's the same micro-entrepreneurs... And I think their number after the entry into force of these amendments to the law - they could be, well, even look at tens of thousands of workers who will pass through the general regime. Of course, it will make life more difficult, more difficult, because maintaining the micro-enterprises' tax regime, which is just after, I think it's still here right now... but by nature, the point of being in it will be completely lost. Just as there will be a part that will go to the general SIA regime, there will be a part that is likely to go into the shadow economy, and then there will be one more way to say... Well, the biggest failure of the country that will go and become clients of the social budget and quite simply demand various social benefits, which the law also allows. But if we look at it, for example, a baker in Jelgava. The micro-entrepreneur works. And the objective transition to SIA, the administrative burden - all this will raise the question whether to continue doing business at all. Will they become... Let's say this small micro-entrepreneur will be competitive with the big bakers, the Hanseatic bakery? And what else we can't buy in stores... Will these little bakers become competitive at that time? The answer is absolutely clear: they will not become such. The purchasing power of the population is also clearly known. They are likely to change from such public trade... become new entrepreneurs, start trading in social networks and... As well as that... At present, there are many cases where this is happening. And in principle it goes into an absolute shadow economy. There are such cases, and that is the reality that is happening. It was precisely the micro-enterprises' tax regime that was the instrument by which these people could have been legalized so that they were still in the legal economy so that they were openly operating so that they could be counted so that they could work with them. And all these, I would like to say, the myth that micro-entrepreneurs are optimists, in my opinion, these are myths that are tolling from 2014, 2015, perhaps from 2016 onwards, because the micro-enterprises tax regime has been significantly changed since that time. It's changed, though, what people can do at all... Of course, it was 2011, 2012, I think it was... very high tax optimisation took place directly through these regimes. There has been a lot of change. Now, if we look at what these micro-entrepreneurs are, they are, however, real micro-entrepreneurs, they are more than 80 000 employees working in this area, where, now, there is an incomprehensible, absolutely incomprehensible reason for such changes to be made at this time. This proposal is, in my opinion, a symbolic proposal for allowing them to operate in the SIA regime. It's absolutely incomprehensible why you not only complicate that model with rates, but you still put these micro-entrepreneurs... Imagine the bread baker himself, who's still putting this... not only increases the rate, but so that definitely... definitely he would move to the SIA regime, we simply attach this responsibility to him and do not allow him to operate in the SIA mode. Colleagues, this, in my opinion, is a hint with a stake for every micro-entrepreneur in Latvia who... If you do not understand that this law is being eliminated by nature, then when you put such a proposal, it is absolutely a hint with a stake - please move to SIA.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U43	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U44	Dear colleagues, So far, from the coalition's side, we have not heard any meaningful comments about why we should have destroyed the micro-enterprises tax regime at this very time. What we heard when the coalition presented this budget in mid-October when it came to the Saeima was a very brief comment from the applicants. So Mr Zakatistova said that these amendments would improve the competitiveness of companies and make companies fairer. Well, on competitiveness, I think, after the government's decision of 9 November to speak at the moment, it is a bit ridiculous. And after... Therefore, let us say that, as the coalition sees this change in tax treatment at the moment, when new circumstances take place, I think that it should be renewed, because we cannot continue to take these decisions on the basis of yesterday's news. As we know, much has changed since 14 October in government decisions. The government now meets often in the evenings and decides various strange things. And we do not know what else the government will decide, what more miracles will come up with to reduce competitiveness for companies. That's why, colleagues... And more. If we are talking about the fact that, now, one third of the entrepreneurs using this regime will try to pay social contributions... How naive it really must be in this situation, knowing that there will be a significant proportion of those who will turn to unemployment benefits, thus, of course, putting a great deal of pressure on the social budget! How have you calculated this? Do you make those decisions just as you made yesterday, at night, when you decided that teachers should spend hours in the mask? As Mr. Cabanov has just shown today... As a teacher in a mask for 40 minutes, no one will hear him... Do you make those decisions just as you decided yesterday that you should be three metres per student and now you have to measure all classes? I really don't know how you make those decisions, but what you are deciding about entrepreneurs right now... Colleagues, come together, please, and think again about what you are doing right now! I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U45	Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U46	Colleagues! If someone feels that the micro-enterprises tax regime is still a regime that allows for a substantial optimisation of taxes or fraudulent practices, then I say: it is not the truth. Indeed, over the years, the regime has been substantially changed by increasing the tax rate, also by increasing the part of the tax that is passed on to social contributions, thus taking care of employees in this regime; by reducing turnover from 100 thousand to 40 thousand; and by making a number of other anti-avoidance rates... measures which, I believe, have calibrated the regime of these companies in exactly the format required for new companies during their first years of operation - until they grow and become able to pay the amounts of the general tax regime. And one number. Of the companies operating under this regime, two thirds, or 20 thousand, are those whose turnover does not exceed 15 thousand euro per year. Colleagues, they are probably not companies that can become huge exporters or superb start-ups. If you really think that the start-up regime will be a serious alternative to the micro-business tax regime, look at those indicators again! If it was ironised for four companies for several years, then now... After the change in the law, I was able to find only six companies that have received support on LIAA’s website. It may be that someone's forgotten, but that's a number that... Two-hand fingers count those businesses, while 80,000 people are employed in micro-enterprises.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U47	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U48	Colleagues! I cannot understand one thing, namely: if we rename companies, say, in more modern words, we call them start-ups or, as moderns say, start-up, then it will immediately create an exportable company... and the like? In fact, only a few things other than the regime under which the company is established are causing the export price. In other words, the export-side is driven by knowledge, first of all, it means an education system (it is now being completely damaged and weakened in all possible ways!) , and secondly, the tax system (it is the most competitive system for us across Europe, especially with regard to labour taxes, which I am referring to in the previous speech). Therefore, for all companies, young or old, we can only look at how the state can help in this context. And the state can also help by allowing micro-enterprises to tax regimes or actually any regime... that the owner can not only be a natural person, but also a legal person - the same micro-enterprises... or even - not... Yeah, why is that important? It is essential to promote commercial activity as a way that commercial activity takes place. There I do not agree with Dana Reizniece-Ozola that these small companies or start-ups... whatever we call them, it doesn't matter... whether they will become, or are likely to become, huge exporting companies. We know all kinds of myths about the fact that all the megacorporates in the world dealing, for example, with IT issues... that all the founders of these companies have established them in garages. There's a joke, if you don't have a garage, you can't actually become a billionaire. And that's exactly why all these small entrepreneurs actually aim... What is the objective on the part of the country? What do other nations of the world do? They generally give freedom at the start, for several years even - tax freedom in its entirety. Comes against wherever possible; it is not complicated, but it is directly easier to strengthen this business. And giving this freedom also comes to a medium-sized company, then, later, - to a large company. So the logical order of things is that, at first, entrepreneurs do not pay any taxes at all, then they settle; then they move to the next regime, which has been forecast for several years ahead; then they know that they will have another tax regime after achieving this and that turnover. And when they reach very large amounts, then there's another regime. And examples do not need to be searched far. In global practice, such as the manufacturing industry, there are examples that healthy industries in countries have actually had a tax-free area for a number of years (known processing industries). And that was the goal of developing such... Let's say, industry and everything else. And the result is that, in some countries, such a set of measures has led to the largest or second largest processing industry in the region. In such categories, we need to think about it. We cannot think in detail, we cannot think only that we will now call them start-ups or start-ups and immediately become rich. This is not the case. This happens only through education and only through taxation, especially of the labour tax... or electricity... basically through the tax chapter. And for us, without being caught by the unobtrusive minimum and lifting it very, very important, no wonders can simply happen objectively in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U49	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U50	Colleagues! It seems that the courage of this coalition has been exhausted this morning and that the debate will continue with the opposition amongst colleagues. But there are 38 proposals yet, and certainly everyone will have the opportunity to prove themselves. And I would have a special call. I remember... I have talked to my coalition fellow Member Roman Money about these issues, I have seen him stand up for it... And it would be interesting to understand what your position is today, which has changed since you were very much in favour of micro-entrepreneurs, and you wrote very interesting articles in the press about maintaining these tax regimes. And I would like to understand what the situation is today. But, more specifically on this proposal - you know, colleagues, one of the biggest assets of every businessman is the general desire of the businessman, the willingness to do business. This is one of the main assets of every business operator. And at the moment we put it, we build on this new entrepreneur or an existing entrepreneur, who, after all, could end up with insolvency or debt bond, we do not in any way promote the will of these entrepreneurs, their ability to assume, to start doing their own business, to build their own business. And that's what this proposal is about: to allow... and to protect these operators to a certain extent also in a purely legal manner. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U51	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U52	Colleagues! Once again, micro-enterprises are not, of course, a panacea in themselves. Labour taxes are crucial, important. For those who are in this regime, in which they, these people, entrepreneurs, who... actually deals with feeding their own families, not with supplementing the state budget - that is also the point, the greatest point, for all small businesses. The reason for the existence of small businesses is not to fill the national budget, it has never been and it will never be. So we should open the debate not only on the tax on micro-enterprises, but also on other forms of aid similar to those that exist in Europe (and not only in Europe), namely that small businesses at the beginning... For newly-founded... there is a tax-free regime, so that they can actually live in. Because creating a business - that's a cost, it's a loss, it's an investment of its own money at the beginning. And especially at this time of crisis, as it is today, it would be very happy to look at these issues. Only in this way can we promote business and competition. If this does not happen, then society must understand that these amendments will lead to catastrophic consequences for all those who are in the micro-enterprises tax regime, and their people will feel very much on their skin next year. I think that the country is going in a very, very wrong direction at the moment and its consequences will be simply catastrophic, dramatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U53	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U54	In the Commission, proposal 2 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 53, for - 2. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Before the break, it's a message. Today's 38th anniversary is celebrated by our colleague Raivis Dzintars, and we welcome him! (Applause) The registration of Members has also been successfully completed. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U56	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”. Member of the Commission responsible Janis Cielen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U57	3. - the proposal of Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola, which provides that the micro-enterprises may be subject to value added tax. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U58	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U59	Dear colleagues, Perhaps you remember that before... Not so long ago, last half-normal... in the semi-extraordinary Saeima sitting - the majority of coalition... Well, actually, almost... OK, with one speech... rejected the referral to the commissions... We're... with my colleague... the new draft law, which was about the new simplified system for small business... the tax system. Then, I remember, one coalition Member - if I remember correctly - was Mr Feldman - who declared that this draft law was populist and absurd. Well, in terms of populism, I will not dare to argue with Mr Feldman because, in terms of populism, he is, of course, a great expert in this Saeima. But with regard to absurdity... Well, colleagues, we've got... the same actually the same bill... has also been submitted in the form of proposals in this law... And that's why I have a call, colleagues... Colleagues of position: if we already know that Mr. Znotiņš is inside, either we will go through those proposals, colleagues, and we will find out where this absurdity lies - whether in this proposal or in some of the next proposals, or... Well, how... I would remind you that this draft law was created together with two regulations - one in Estonia and one in France for several years. As regards Estonia. As we know (and let us also talk about it when we come to the next proposal), one element of the Estonian regulation is the so-called single economic account. I know Mr. Znotiņš is a big fan... a fanate of everything that happens in Estonia in the field of information technology; he can, of course, understand... and to sympathize with it. I also appreciate Estonia's experience and success very high, and I followed with interest. As far as I remember, Mr Znotiņš, it seems to me recently, with such great enthusiasm, that another company, the so-called unicorn, appeared in Estonia - that is, one that is able to attract more than one billion dollars of funding. Well, so here too... Mr Znotiņš therefore needs to ask himself this question: why, if we are talking about a relatively simple element of Estonian regulation such as this single economic account, which is very simple in legislative terms (and we will see in future proposals)... this specific proposal is one of its components, as well as the next proposal... Why... Is that so? Well, does Mr. Znotins think if we... If the Latvian Government intends to introduce the same single economic account only after two years, this means that we will have this simple single economic account five years later than in Estonia. Does Mr. Znotiņš think we're like this (Laughs.) can we come closer to the Estonian level in some foreseeable future? Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U60	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U61	Dear colleagues, Continuing the discussion, I would like to say that we should look at the business environment and the tax environment... whether, in principle, companies should be divided into two such groups. Some are companies with high potential future growth, i.e. those that can be exported, those that can become internationally competitive, and those that can indeed generate high tax revenues for the Latvian State. The amendments to the law that I mentioned earlier - both me and other Members of the Saeima - are mainly aimed at supporting this group of entrepreneurs, so those who can create such a scale of entrepreneurship that they are also exporting to other countries and really earn a good income in the state budget. A second group of taxpayers or businesses, which would be important to look at here and which would be important to distribute, is likely to be concerned (and not in vain) by the majority of the opposition, as well as by other members of the position, are so-called lifestyle companies. I agree that this group is also very important for the economic development of Latvia's country. Let me explain a little more, which are lifestyle companies - these are those who can produce... Let's say create a local business, earn with your small business so much to feed yourself and your family without going to work for a paid job, but creating a local normal business. For these businesses too, a solution must be found - one that is competitive and really helpful. And I really must say that we very much hope that the Ministry of Finance will come up with some kind of offer to ensure that these small, local entrepreneurs have such a competitive tax policy. Such companies are, for example, the same bread bakers already mentioned by Mr. Valaiņa, as well as various local service providers and various others. They are also a really important part of Latvia's business and Latvia's state. That is why I can, of course, agree that solutions need to be found here, and we very much hope that the Ministry of Finance will come with an offer that would address this group of taxpayers. It's all right now... I have to say, objectively... not found on the part of the Ministry of Finance. The biggest problem, in my opinion, is that we should all really look critically at our activities - and also at what we have done so far. And that critical view, from my perspective, is that the Ministry of Finance has remained a somewhat repressive institution which, I will say, has certainly not come up with any such regime for taxpayers in the last eight years... a regime that supports or promotes the development of the business environment in Latvia. And that was the case during Dana Reizniece-Ozola and will continue during this Minister of Finance. I think the Ministry of Finance should become... You really need to make an objective assessment... not to be divided here into opposition and position, but to be objectively assessed. And we need to watch how we can make the Ministry of Finance an institution that thinks about entrepreneurship... also development, not only of restricting and such, of drastic moves. We were in this kind of communication and, to say, we have seen the move before, especially what was said by the SRS (there is, of course, also slow communication, fortunately changing towards a more friendly businessman, but there is also, of course, much to do there), but the Ministry of Finance should certainly not be the one who comes with repressive mechanisms only. It must also come with mechanisms that really promote and support entrepreneurship. Here, too, there's a couple good... Indeed, this proposal for a single account too... I'll say it's potentially good... good offer and a good opportunity. I think that the Ministry of Finance should update this issue and really talk to them about how to create such a single account in Latvia. That would only be acceptable, in my opinion. I think we need to work together to call on the Ministry of Finance to really reflect on its position, position and really become a mechanism for developing Latvia's economy and competitiveness, not a repressive and destructive mechanism, which has unfortunately been created today. I call on the Ministry of Finance to think about this. And thank you also to those members of the opposition who have tabled really constructive proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U62	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U63	Colleagues! First of all, in reply to Rainis Znotiņš about the role of the Ministry of Finance, I would nevertheless call for: before thinking about any new proposals and loud calls, try to go into some detail, even if you read again... or through discussions with economic operators about the tax reform carried out by the previous government. The fact that nothing has been done to the benefit of entrepreneurs is a complete injustice, because a very rapid reduction in labour taxes took place from 2018. The increase in the uncapped minimum can still be used this year, and I hope that this good practice will continue by the government in the years to come, thinking of a reduction in labour taxation. The second major thing that has resulted in a rapid improvement in the competitiveness of our tax system and which was introduced directly at the initiative of the Ministry of Finance was the change of corporate tax system as long as the company invests in development. It also significantly improves the equity structure of companies, makes them more attractive to investors and improves competitiveness for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is an important step, and it is actually what has given our country second place in terms of the competitiveness of the OECD's national tax systems. But both on this specific proposal and on the related proposals. Mr Znotiņš, however, has also, in my opinion, just highlighted a very good thing. There were a lot of businessmen... companies that have so far benefited from the micro-enterprises tax regime, which are so-called lifestyle companies. If their regime is abolished without giving you anything, then those people have a great risk of being unemployed, especially in view of the fact that... As I have already mentioned, the labour market will not be able to absorb such a large number of people at the moment. Of the approximately 80,000 micro-enterprises in the tax regime, 19 thousand are expected to remain in the scheme, but over 64 thousand will either have to look for work or re-direct to another, more complex, less attractive tax regime. Most likely, for a large part of these employees, it could also fail... especially in such a short time and in the current economic situation. This proposal is our attempt, as Members, to offer our vision of what the micro-enterprises tax regime might be in the new version, and in fact it is also the substance of this proposal, one element, rather than saying that VAT payers can be the payers of the micro-enterprises tax regime, as the rapporteur said, obviously without going into any detail in the substance of the proposal! Here, it is proposed to define the range of micro-established taxable persons who could qualify for this regime. And then you will see proposals that, depending on the type of business... Depending on whether it is an economic operator, a trader, a manufacturer or a craftsman or a professional service provider, it would be subject to a certain rate of turnover tax; all of them would be provided with a transaction account in a commercial institution which would also help to ensure a relatively easy tax administration both on the national and on the business operator's own side, since it is one of the advantages of the micro-enterprises tax regime. It does not require complicated accounting, it is simply manageable. Such a regime, by its very nature... Try to find ways to make it even simpler, and this could also be achieved through their transaction account... is particularly necessary during the take-off period while undertakings start operating. I understand that these entrepreneurs risk money, not always having high financial practice or accounting skills. Such simple administration is extremely necessary. Colleagues! I call for a real look at these proposals and for them to be discussed on their substance and, preferably, to be supported as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U64	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U65	Hello, dear colleagues! I just wanted to go into the substance of the proposal. And I would already recommend that we talk more specifically about the specific proposals, because the debate would then be more constructive and probably the Members of the position would come up with much more. The specific proposal, as the rapporteur has already said, in fact removes one subsidiary sentence from the draft law. That is, it is about micro-enterprises of all kinds... Full responsibility... economic operators. The draft law provides for: except for value added tax payers. This proposal deletes this subsidiary sentence. In fact, it is therefore possible that these economic operators may be taxable persons for value added tax. Well, on value added tax, I'm like a person who, by the way, had a micro-organism before this parliamentary term... and over many years I have noticed one interesting thing in my business experience, in consultation with accountants. Well, for example, there is an accounting service provider that provides services like two forms. One is common, for example, a limited liability company that provides accounting services and invoicing to value added tax payers... Yes, because SIA is also registered in the VAT payers' register... value added tax invoices. And the other is SIA, which is a micro enterprise, which in turn is not a value added tax payer and issues invoices to those customers who are also not value added tax payers, and there is no small number in the case of micro-enterprises. And why do many micro-enterprises choose not to register, have never registered for value added tax? That's because, for example, doing crafts... If, for example, a wooden spoon - let us now talk about wooden spoons that pay, for example, EUR 5 - and when it is traded - would have to pay a further value added tax on the assumption that the craftsman has not purchased raw materials from the value added tax payer and has thus applied the right to deduct input tax - it actually happens that the spoon should be sold for EUR 6 in order to be completely satisfied by selling it for EUR 5 in order to ensure a potentially large amount... increased demand for their products. And we heard about earlier draft laws that VAT... We were told how important it is for VAT to be kept as low as possible, because demand for some goods or services will grow. And in such a case, it seems perfectly logical to me that a micro-organism does not even register for VAT. There was one exception... were micro-enterprises registered as VAT payers. This is because, under the Value Added Tax Act, it is in fact impossible to provide a service to a company in another country, such as the European Union. So a micro enterprise cannot provide a service in another country... For a company of a Member State of the European Union if it is not a VAT payer. Well, that pressed... Even if they are simply advisory services, it forced certain micro-enterprises to register as VAT payers. But in general... for craftsmen and also, I think, for anyone who does not deal with raw materials, say, a mass acquisition, but it would be in general good not to register as a VAT payer... and especially for a private operator, as this proposal also provides. This proposal does not provide that SIA will be a micro-enterprises as envisaged by previous proposals. And in this respect, I have to say that this proposal is... Well, it shouldn't be supported, because it's just in practice pointless, I think... Well, at least... So, as it's been said about the private... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U66	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. ( Pause) Mr. Cabanov, we can't hear you with a mask or without a mask! Please adjust your computer! We can't hear you! ( Pause) Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U67	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! Well, with regard to what my colleague, Mr Feldman, said, given the time limit, I will answer very briefly. You have not understood quite correctly the substance of the proposal, which, by the way, is "draft law" rather than "law", as in the current version... From this I can also conclude that you have not read carefully the separate draft law on which you have said that it is absurd. And that is something that I am not surprised about, but let us talk more about it when we come to the next proposal. I would like, above all, to address my colleague, Mr Znotiņš. You know, maybe I was surprised then, talking about the inside... Now, listen to yourself! That we have to talk to the Ministry of Finance so that they... ask if the Ministry of Finance, please, could somehow prepare it for a single economic account regulation, you submit... and so on... Just like your colleague yesterday, I think it was Mr. Riekstin, and I also called on everyone to do something together to force something... The Ministry of Welfare. Well, colleagues, are you not Members of the Saeima?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Colleagues, I call on you once again to read the Constitution and remember what your role is and what your powers are, and what role and powers of the government are, and to ask yourself: is Latvia still a parliamentary republic? Don't you think that's right? Because what you're saying... It is clear from your words that you do not regard yourself as members of the Saeima, you do not regard Latvia as a parliamentary republic. The only thing you think, and what you can do, is to ask the Ministry of Finance if they could, please, introduce their single economic account more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U68	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U69	Dear colleagues, Continuing with what my colleague Dombrovskis said, I am really impressed by the way in which the coalition Members responsible for this draft budget understand their role. You have appointed a finance minister, and so he is subject to you. And you have all the right to expect from him... not only to pray, but to give him specific tasks, to request the performance of tasks and, ultimately, to replace him with another minister in the performance of his duties. The opposition is doing its job. We see a whole series of proposals, but you are mainly avoiding discussions, you are not criticising these proposals, you are simply silent and voting against, because the Ministry of Finance ordered it because the government decided to do so. At the same time, you say that, however, the Ministry of Finance should do that and that. You should, however, define your role. Do you really... You are a coalition, the elected Members, who agreed not to let some other Members be there and took responsibility for taking all the decisions themselves, but at the same time you complain that the Ministry of Finance did not, and did, do so. That sounds illogical! And I really thank Mr Feldman for standing up against the very nature of the specific proposal... Although, of course, your arguments, Mr Feldman, did not convince me either... because this proposal does not impose a specific solution on a micro enterprise. You can register as a VAT payer, you can also not register. It simply removes one restriction and expands the choice. I can't see here that some kind of smell of it might be. But you really should decide if you take all your responsibility, or if you're looking for something else, like... Some scapegoat: See, the Ministry of Finance did not do it and that. Well, then maybe... then that the Minister of Finance also approve the national budget at final reading, and then we will not waste our time and taxpayers' money and will not sit for days when discussing proposals in the draft budget! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U70	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U71	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! I would like to speak both on this proposal and on the draft law on the micro-enterprises tax law as a whole. Yeah, that's a certain meaning, though, in this... the draft budget in question. I understand that there are these micro-enterprises tax users who... users of the status, who do not do this correctly, but in general, it is not a question of this; it is a question of whether, at this time of crisis, it was precisely a decision of this kind that was needed at this time of crisis - precisely about the amendment of the Microbusiness Tax Act by adopting this draft law. In fact, its responsibility should be one hundred percent for Rey and also for Karina. And the Saeima, where I also heard doubts and accusations from Members of the position, actually Mr Reira - the Saeima, MEPs, but overall this draft law should not be supported. I looked at how, say, the previous votes... The first vote, for example, was taken by the National Union. Well, they're old soldiers! Clearly, they acted reasonably - many of them simply did not vote. That is why I would call on all members of the coalition to think about the possibility of not voting in favour of this bill, because you should not share your responsibilities, especially with the new parties that are currently in the Saeima. To be honest, let's say... so that this responsibility remains for... Located right on Karini, to Unity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U72	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U73	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to start with an example of the experience of our strategic partners for the Americans. As we know, America is the strongest economy in the world. And in the city of New York, a small business, which is now being given every kind of help at the time of the pandemic, is being considered and qualified as such by a company with up to 500 employees. Let us assume that there are ten times more people in New York than there are in Latvia. This means that Latvia would have a small company with 50 members or employees. However, we have much less. By this I would like to say that in Latvia business traditions, business activities are as fragile and young as our democracy. And today, all of our debates just point to the fact that we do not have a high level of economic science. I completely agree with the offer, or solution, made by economic doctor Dombrovskis and former finance minister Reizniece-Ozola, because their offer actually means that not only can some speculators and chefs qualify as micro-enterprises, but also chaklie farmers, fishermen and, in general, physical workers. It seems to me that this is only an additional reason for the national Members to vote and support this proposal. But when I come back to what I said earlier, I would like to oppose my colleagues. Why do members of micro-enterprises do wrong? Because, like this, they got into this position by chance, not because they had a very great desire to become a micro-entrepreneur. For example, sports complex coaches are engaged in sports training by renting out the area of the sports centre. In fact, they are the same employees, they just set up their status as micro-entrepreneurs, and they rent their gym or pool to train people. In my opinion, it must be understood that micro-enterprises are only part of the food chain. For example, in the center of a large business there is an average vinava, and this vinava brings cakes and broths every day, but on one miraculous morning, people who work in those offices came to the vinava, and there are no cakes anymore, there are no bubbles, because the baker no longer works. He realized that the government and the Saeima did not support him, and that's all! That's it! And he is quietly preparing for departure to Norway or to Ireland. This is an example of life. So, dear people, think of it that at one point you don't get in the way and that you can drink coffee with arrows! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U74	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U75	Well, I do not agree that the proposal in question would, to some extent, hinder individual economic operators or farmers or fishermen from being micro-enterprises, because the current wording of the draft law makes it clear that a micro-enterprise can be a farmer or a fisherman's farm, as well as any other natural person registered with the State Revenue Service as an economic operator. Well, in this respect, such a statement would probably not have any basis. There was also mention in the debate of the economic activity account, or so-called 'unitary'... So the automatic tax deduction account would be like that in Estonia. And then that's the problem... which has postponed the introduction of this case for so long... I understand it has nothing to do with public administration at all, because if it had anything to do with public administration, I do not doubt that the previous tax reformers would have introduced it a long time ago. Now I have to say a great “Thank you” (in the last few!) directly to the commercial banking sector, which has long resisted the introduction of this single economic activity account. Now I'm glad that in general some mutual understanding has been found. And at least from... If I remember correctly, from the next year... It should enter into force from 1 January of the following year. That's good news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U76	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U77	A little reflection on what Mr Feldman said. I'll start with the last statement. It is not possible for commercial banks to resist at all, and commercial banks only carry out what the coalition of power, that is, the coalition, including the UKP, decides. And the UKP, as we remember, has also decided on "capital repairs", which destroys virtually all commercial activities, including the closure of accounts for people and businesses. On VAT. What Mr. Feldman said... I think that the main and greatest problem in Latvia is that entrepreneurs who want to register as VAT payers... They are treated at least as criminals or as criminals. If you want to pay VAT, you want to be a VAT payer, then getting this status is almost impossible. Very many entrepreneurs know this, and it is the attitude of the state - both the legislator and the executive - to implement a policy that to register with the State Revenue Service for VAT payer is particularly difficult and particularly difficult. This is inconceivable. So entrepreneurs have to get out of some sort of mystic... in order to get to this status... when you want to pay taxes. Another thing about small... micro-enterprises. If we are talking about micro-enterprises, it is not true that micro-enterprises do not want to register as VAT payers. Total stupidity! Micro-enterprises by their very nature... if, for example, the volume of commercial activity is largely below these minimum thresholds necessary to be obliged to register as VAT payers. There is no logic to say that people are special... that they only want a lower income, so that they do not register as VAT payers! Just people don't have any more income! They have the income they are. And this income fits if we compare it to the same thing... Poland... Let us not talk about the United Kingdom or the Scandinavian countries to which we are seeking, where such small companies are at all exempt for several years in a row, so that they can become stronger. That is what I am talking about in the previous speech. So there is no fault in the banking sector that is going to do anything, nor in the substance of the proposal, because the proposal is absolutely innocent in nature, the proposal is talking about a definition, the definition of micro-enterprises tax - which then falls within the content of this institution. Not that... We're looking for blame somewhere else. And that in a way resembles that famous paraun... Latvian parunu... I'm telling you that there's a star in the eyes of others, but the beam is not seen in its own eye. This is true of the JCPOA Members who have spoken today in the context of this proposal because, in principle, the JCPOA... they were among the most active before the elections who tried to make their pre-elections, say, in rhetoric, to say that they will defend small entrepreneurs, that they will defend small entrepreneurs and hence also that the inexpensive minimum must be raised. We all know that one of the components of “3 × 500” is an indispensable minimum, which is the most essential part of the... a tax on micro-enterprises, too. We can't hear it today. In order to defend micro-enterprises' taxable persons, the inequitable minimum, as I said in my first speech today, is crucially important, and that is what should have been said and that should have been the case for proposals from members of the JCPOA today when examining amendments to the Law on Micro-business Tax. And in this way, we would solve the problem, but the JCPOA has not wanted to do so, has been looking for a bulwark in the eyes of others, not a beam in its own eye, has tried to shift its inaction towards others, considering that all voters are uneducated and do not understand that again, once again, they are lying. Please support micro-enterprises at the moment, because no alternative has been introduced! These people actually close their business, and there will be a huge economic tragedy in many families, many people's families. We don't need it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U78	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U79	Thank you. Colleagues! I think if we... Let us go back to our own proposal. It should be divided into two parts on the issue under discussion, on the issue of micro-enterprises tax. The first part relates to how entrepreneurship is organised in general. It's not just about... from an organisational point of view... Only from two forms: micro-enterprises and large companies; there is a great variety of... the diversity of forms and the diversity of structures. So today, one of the issues we discussed... whatever the proposal is, be or not micro-enterprises as part of the economy... This is a very important issue, because if we believe that such a form should be, it means that we also think that this form should function effectively and be a fully-fledged part of the economy. The second question is how to promote the effective functioning of this form? And this is about tax policy, and others... organisational matters. This is extremely important. Mr Cabanov mentioned here, let us say, about New York's experience, that there are 500 employees there. They are not micro-enterprises; they are small companies in the American sense. Well, it's a part. But if we're talking that... Micro-enterprises are a fully-fledged part of the economy and therefore must also operate according to the laws and regulations that exist throughout the economy. The right to pay value added tax is at the same time a right and an obligation, and this also arises from the nature of micro-enterprises' activities. Because, as has already been said here, not every company offers services and goods on the free market, but there are also those who do it, and so they must be registered (I return to the proposal) as value added tax payers. That is why the proposal is to be supported by nature, form and meaning. But when it comes to how taxes are applied, we also return to the same discussion that we had on value added tax. And here, too, there are some incentives that might be appropriate for such an organizational form of business. And there may also be burdens here, which are also... Let us say, economists believe that this is necessary, they may also be imposed, but it is a completely different subject of discussion and another discussion. I would call for this proposal to be supported without waiting for the Ministry of Finance to offer something new, another... and modern. Incidentally, I cannot agree with Dana Reizniece-Ozola here, because, unfortunately, the essence of the Ministry of Finance is to be public accountants to draw ends together, so that revenue coincides with expenditure or, on the other hand, expenditure - with revenue, and try to always increase their share of revenue. But what it is doing is a question for politicians, which depends on the policy direction, the economic policy direction chosen in the current situation - the political economic, socio-economic and purely political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U80	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U81	I thank Mr Dolgopolova for his comments, including the role of the Ministry of Finance. I think that we have traditionally developed into an accounting officer, or tax collector, in the Ministry of Finance. However, there are, in fact, many countries where the Ministry of Finance is simultaneously the Ministry of Economics. And I actually like it much better, because then it means that the Ministry of Finance does not only think in such tables of accountants, but also when tax changes are planned - even then it is trying, at least trying, to plan and calculate, and predict, the impact it will have on the economy as a whole, in a broader context. But either on this particular proposal. I can also thank Mr Feldman because he shared his personal experience. But, after all, his arguments too... I didn't understand why it was so endearing... and why it is so essential to prevent the possibility of value added tax for micro-enterprises. I realized that he didn't see any great meaning from his maybe not too big experience... But why for companies that make sense... To deny it - so I did not hear any arguments. One concrete example of why it is also worth leaving this option to register as a VAT payer (in addition to some of the examples already mentioned) is, for example, the possibility of using electronic services (e.g. Google services). There is reverse VAT everywhere and there is a need to register for both natural and legal persons before being used. If the possibility to register as a VAT payer is denied, this means that the use of such and similar services is also restricted. I call for this proposal to be supported, even when viewed in isolation from the rest of the package. I believe that this is to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U82	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U83	Another thing that simply needs to be looked at objectively, rationally, is simply to compare these figures from a purely statistical point of view. So, how many companies in Latvia pay the largest tax mass in taxes and how many micro enterprises pay in taxes from the total tax share? This ratio is simply dramaticly different, not because micro-enterprises would not pay taxes, but precisely because such a form of business has a different purpose, namely, as I said in my previous speeches, the existence of micro-enterprises is not a budget addition but a self-consumption. Thus, in fact, the payment or non-payment of the micro-enterprises tax at all... basically... In absolute figures, say, in percentage terms, there is so little budgetary impact at all, that even if we abolished the tax regime in this area, it could not even be felt particularly in the budget... not especially, but actually could not feel at all, because the biggest tax mass is paid... Well, maximum - up to 20 percent of companies. I would like to say that there are even fewer; there are only under 10 percent of companies in the territory of the Republic of Latvia that are large companies paying these taxes. Such regulation is therefore welcome at present, especially in times of crisis. And the proposal is therefore acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U84	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U85	Yes, good morning! Thank you. Reflecting on the statements and judgments of certain members of the coalition, I would like to quote a quote from a board in the Saeima hall: “The sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia.” Members of the Saeima, as an instrument of this power or as such, should, in realising the interests of the Latvian people, make decisions and implement policies in the interests of the whole Latvian people. And now a rhetorical question is asked: is it in the interests of the Latvian people during the economic downturn, during the Covid–19 pandemic, to destroy the 80,000 taxpayers operating under the micro-enterprises regime? Is it in Latvian people's interest to say that 32 000 taxpayers will not be able to earn any more income under this regime? Have existing coalition politicians offered other sources, types of income? Unfortunately, I believe that politicians have not even made sure that those who are currently in a state of forced retirement as a result of the economic crisis are given timely and necessary support. It is essential that we base our political decisions on modelling rather than using our personal experience, as Mr Znotiņš and Mr Feldman do. Moreover, it must be borne in mind that even though Mr Feldman was not active in one but several companies that had been wound up, most likely as revenue... Due to the failure of business, it is now time to take decisions that affect others, namely taxpayers who work and who pay taxes... make decisions based on their own personal experience and, most probably, their own understanding of the consequences and chains of commercial activity... And one more thing. Yes, indeed, - the idea of an economic activity account was developed and offered in tax policy already in 2017, but unfortunately since 2017... In my opinion, it is not because of the fault or failure of commercial banks, but because of the failure of political communication, because of the culprits inside the political forces, because they cannot agree, that this instrument has not been designed and implemented. And one more thing. In Estonia, the economic activity account was indeed implemented precisely as a result of a successful discussion, as a result of the use of European Union funds, and this was done by replacing other regimes that were assessed and recognised as anti-competitive instruments. And that is why the existence and maintenance of the micro-enterprises regime is very important right now. The participants of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry also pointed out this; they made presentations several times, both publicly and individually, during their meetings with Members and explained that it was wrong to eliminate this regime right now. This should have been done either before or after the economic crisis. And indeed, taking decisions that affect a very large part of society, based on personal, not too successful, business experience, is wrong and does not correspond to the definition of a good and careful host. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U86	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U87	Colleagues! There are really many professions in the family. There are, too, both former big entrepreneurs and current members of the Saeima, who currently own large companies and who are not called into question by anyone and never... I have never, I have never, heard of these Members who I am talking about (I think many of you know them)... I have not heard that they would have told you that they have been or are some kind of company leaders. Everyone knows that. And there's only one Member who always says he's an entrepreneur, but I don't think of a fellow Member or any other person... I've never heard anyone else really... Man from the edge... Except for their own... I mean, they've named it... for a person who came from the business environment. And that is unfortunately Krišjānis Feldman. And I should join Mrs. Schvekov on the fact that I really... from such a personal experience to lead... Well, maybe this is not the case, but... Looking at what the real situation is... And I would now also like to touch on the Constitution. This proposal is proposed by the government. And only government is one that can carry the Saeima budget. And only Members of the Saeima are those who can vote on it, and in this case Members of the Saeima have the right to - make their own proposals, amendments. And I would like to respond to Mr Znotiņš. You have rightly pointed out the need to work on alternatives, and the parliamentary opposition is now offering these alternatives. And an alternative model is offered, which in essence... This proposal reflects the existing regime in place in Estonia from 2018 onwards. If we look at... Well, colleagues, you've definitely been to a fair... For example, in Bauska. Well, well, maybe it's too far... Right here, in Riga. Right here, in Riga, you have been on the Central Market or at Kalnciema Street District. And it's... I don't know... offers blankets for purchase, offers fruit and vegetables for purchase. And have you studied what are the producers who are the sellers who are offering to you at that time? And it's... Yes, there are very active Lithuanian entrepreneurs, active Estonian entrepreneurs who are able to come and offer their products and compete with our local producers, domestic producers, however, let us call them what we want. Most often, however, these producers are the ones who work in micro-enterprises. There are such regimes in our neighbourhood too, there is no secret. And so do Latvians... workers in this mode travel to other countries and offer their products. There are, too, cases like this. And we just need to be happy about it, but in this case we offer an alternative that essentially places the same game rules on Latvian and Estonian entrepreneurs - micro-entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs - on the same terms. What we are offering at this point - we are proposing to create such an alternative. I would remind you that in 2009, when this law came to the Saeima during the crisis, it was with a completely different... at a completely different rate. I think 18 percent were there. And it was the Members of the Saeima who corrected on nine, understanding that if they did, they did. And in this case, this Saeima... Why do you want to be worse than the Saeima in 2009? Why do you want to be... Less listening to the people? Economic situation: entrepreneurs are now in a worse position than in 2009. On Latvian television two days ago these figures were published. Colleagues, I call for the parliamentary role to be followed by a full programme and for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U88	Thank you. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U89	Thank you, yeah. Hello, colleagues! We've been looking at the budget for the third day and it looks like we're going to need a few more days. And in this regard... Yes, I see that there is a great deal of criticism from the opposition that these decisions are not being interpreted from the point of view. In this respect, I would like to emphasise one thing: in any country, there are two main persons responsible for budgeting and also for tax reform - the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. So when you make governments, always these two, let's say, positions go hand in hand - they go like that... Well, pair. Since we are now, as we know, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance from one party, namely the New Unity, I really... well, I would like to see representatives of this party here in the Saeima, but much more active involvement in the interpretation of these coalition decisions. Well, for example, Ainars Latkovsky, who is the leader of a political group... I have never seen him debate or explain something. I don't know if the reason for this is shyness or some lack of knowledge because... Well, it is clear that these budgetary issues are technically difficult - there needs to be knowledge. Maybe Mr. Asheraden, who... which, however, should have that knowledge... He was a minister for several years, he knows the kitchen - how the budget is top, how decisions are made. Or Rihard Kozlovskis, who is a representative of the New Unity at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... I have to say that I have been in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for two years, Mr Kozlovsky has spoken very little at all. I must have heard twice that he was talking, once it was about supporting gambling... Well, yeah. Or Mr. Zakatistov, who is the right hand of Reira... I don't know... or... but somebody should, there I agree with the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U90	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U91	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. To be honest, you have so far been very successful in regulating the order of speaking when it was not about proposals... clarification of fractional relationship or the so-called razbork... In this case... When it comes to the proposal, I would like to say once again that this proposal is not about micro-enterprises, nor is it about big trains about the budget itself. This proposal is about being or not about the rule of law in the Republic of Latvia. And that is why it is not a political proposal, it is a proposal from the justice sector, and I call for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U92	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U93	Colleagues! I will continue my previous speech. It is not Krišjānis Kariņš that will take responsibility for these amendments, not Jānis Reirs, but the Members of the Saeima who have voted in favour of this draft law. And on the first day when criticism begins, on January 1, it will not be John Reir, who is guilty, it will not be Krišjānis Kariņš, whatever. The government will certainly not. The government will be the one who will work in the face of support mechanisms and try to correct the parliament's voted draft law, because the Saeima will be the one that has decided. In a way, I completely join Gatim Eglitis, because now the opposition is also debating with those who are debating, and now only UK politicians are debating. In my opinion, it would be time for the opposition to focus on the authors of this bill and on the group representing both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, and indeed perhaps there is one of the New Unity Group that would be ready to explain this social justice, that this is the right time to come up with a change in the micro-enterprises' tax regime - from you, as an association of parties representing the Prime Minister, we have not heard any words in these days. This is just the third day. We're going to be going on for some time. Perhaps you must take courage on a break and come and start a debate at a time and explain to the opposition why these fools are needed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U94	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U95	In the Commission this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U96	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 50, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U97	4. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola. This proposal provides for the introduction of a single transaction account. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U98	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U99	Highly honourable colleagues, especially from the New Conservative Party! I can only join my colleague Valaiņš in saying that responsibility is joint and several. After all this, colleagues, you will not have the opportunity to blame and say: “Here, they were not us, it was another party minister, other Members.” Everyone in the ruling coalition has a part of the government, the responsibility is joint and several. And this responsibility will not be possible. Go on, colleagues. There's something about the business environment. I will tell you from the same annual global business monitoring study that is going on (I will stress again - annual!) "I'll read one of those results. Entrepreneurs, people, so not only entrepreneurs, but also businesses in general... a question was asked throughout that survey. This question is the following: do you start business in your country... in my country to start business is easy? As this, my fellow Members, is an international, global project, then if I am not mistaken, about 70 and how much there... the same question was asked to both citizens and businesses in the countries. The result of this business environment, how easy it is to start a business, colleagues, is the following: in Latvia only about 32 percent of the population agree with the statement that “it is easy to start a business in my country”. This, my fellow Members, is one of the lowest figures in Europe. This is even lower than in Belarus, colleagues! In Belarus, a higher share of the population is of the opinion that it is easy to start business in my country. You just compare, colleagues. If we are talking about Sweden, then there almost 80 percent of the population think that starting a business is easy. In Poland, those colleagues have 90 percent of the population if. I repeat: there are 32 percent in Latvia. When this study is more detailed on the reasons why starting a business is not easy, then one of the... it turns out that one of the main factors is the... The main obstacles are precisely the amendments proposed by the government to tax policy on micro-enterprises, economic operators, beneficiaries of royalties and so on: they will make the situation even worse for future and early entrepreneurs and will create even more obstacles. Next, colleagues, in answer to Mr Feldman's questions, I think about it... on the substance of these proposals... both this and earlier... As I have already mentioned, the first is the introduction of a single economic account. Once again, Estonia has been operating for three years. Our Ministry of Finance's forecast, to which you colleagues so much wish to pray, is another two years. It's a legal technique. Legal technique, colleagues, is almost entirely taken over from Estonian legal technique. So here, Mr Feldman, who believes that this is not to be supported, and Mr Znotiņš, for example, who, as I said, is a big Estonian fan, so to speak, then you should speak with one another, or the Estonian legal technique whose results in Estonia are very succinct, very clear... and all the draft laws, so, according to Mr Feldman, are absurd. Well, Mr. Znotiņš has a different rating. So I'm basically on one page... the same Ministry of Finance that this favourable tax treatment should be provided for primarily by natural persons, namely by excluding employees. Because creating employees in fact two different tax regimes - so-called normal and with a much lower burden on micro-enterprises - is not quite right. For payment of VAT. Here can be spoken quite long, much depends on the extent to which we want those micro-enterprises to be, so to say, sellers at the last instance, namely that their customers should be natural persons, end-users, or other businesses. It is clear that VAT will affect this. The same in France began to ban VAT, then changed the policy, and now VAT can be charged. Let's go on later, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U100	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U101	Colleagues! This proposal provides, in substance, that a business account for simple tax administration is also provided for a micro-enterprises operating under the tax regime. Many say that the tax on micro-enterprises is a time of crisis and, in some ways, it is true that, when it was created, after the crisis in 2008, 2009 when the tax was introduced in 2010, it served as a masterpiece of its own time, significantly reducing the shadow economy, substantially reintegrating people into the labour market, but I think that this crisis, which has now come to us again, shows that the tax regime for micro-enterprises should not be abolished, even if only because the crises are repeated every time. Between the crisis in 2008, 2009 and today, we remember, as early as 2014 was the so-called crisis in Russia, the introduction of sanctions, when a number of sectors were severely affected. But without this solution to the crisis, the tax on micro-enterprises in Latvia is another essential... Perhaps, I would even say, the most important role. It is now the best tax regime for starting a business, which allows not only to start a business relatively easily, but also to withdraw from the game if, however, everything does not sound like what was originally planned and without such huge liabilities, because the tax is paid out of income or turnover. And one of the reasons why people really fear or do not get to start their own business is the real fear of the unknown, of the fact that the tax burden that needs to be borne can sometimes be beyond their strength. But the other is the complexity. If there is a complex tax administration, as I have said, not everyone has the skills themselves or, especially at the start of the business, money to be able to pay smart, knowledgeable accountants, thus also avoiding the yoke of tax debts in the long term. And one of these elements of simplicity is certainly a single transaction account. Estonia has shown with its experience that it is working well. Interestingly, yes, if it really succeeds in agreeing with the financial sector, and that is indeed in the initial period, even in 2017, when we discussed with the financial sector about this area, has been one of the obstacles... very careful financial sector, which was not clear to me, because most of us foreign capital banks are Scandinavian banks working in both Latvia and Estonia... And if Estonia was able to do so, why not do it in Latvia? But if this agreement is there, then it is actually very simple. If you look at the Estonian simple rule of law, it is really on one A4 page, where both the tax purpose and the subject of payment, the subject of payment and the procedure for using the single tax account or the transaction account for this business group are agreed upon. I call for support for this proposal, also knowing that the government as a whole has the intention of introducing a transaction account, then this would only reinforce the creation and determination of this transaction account. I call for a 'yes' vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U102	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U103	Yeah, thank you. My personal conviction was, is and will be, that the single economic account is an instrument to alleviate, firstly, the administrative burden on business start-ups, secondly, to simplify and reduce the expenditure associated with bureaucratic procedures and, thirdly, to help people to engage in commercial activities. Just like with specialization between people who are orientate and who are able to deal with precise sciences, as well as with... These represent only five percent of the population. It is similar to business. It is estimated that only about five percent of the population are willing to risk and do business. And it is an economic activity account that could motivate people to engage in and operate by taking on and gaining experience in this way. It has to be said that, unfortunately, because of internal conflicts and disagreements, the Ministry of Finance is mainly concerned with the fact that it wants to destroy small businesses as such, rather than allowing it to develop and allow fair competition to develop for those who can then move from micro-enterprises into more serious regimes, because it is absolutely clear that all those who are dealing with IT technologies in a different area or in other sectors of the economy will not be able to do business, and therefore the economic activity account is an instrument to be supported and implemented much more quickly. And for some reason, the Ministry of Finance very quickly developed and proposed legalising an instrument that provides for automatic punishment of taxpayers. For this, money has been sought and found, and no agreement has been reached, and the tool for automatic punishment of taxpayers is constantly being directed and updated. At the same time, the economic activity account has disappeared since it was first mentioned in tax policy planning documents in 2017. And one more important thing should also be noted. This year, when the first policy planning document on planned tax changes was created, it was February this year, then there was no economic activity account as such. It just appeared a little later and consequently... built-in. It should be noted that I was interested in requests every year and asked the Ministry of Finance to explain to me the stage of economic legislation... development, communication with the financial sector and search for the necessary resources for the creation of this account. And once again it appears that those instruments that reduce the administrative burden on economic operators, those that make it easier to work and that allow them to operate in a less resource-intensive business environment, are being carried out for the very last time or are not being put into practice in time and are not being discussed sufficiently actively and topically in a coalition. If we are talking about the interests of citizens and the interests of the economy in times of crisis, at a time of economic recession, a simple instrument is the aid that the minimal government or politicians can provide to society to prevent people from going bankrupt in order to prevent people from going to the shadows. Thank you. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U104	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U105	Colleagues, when talking to business organisations about the creation of this year's budget, about this single farm... account, of course, such a common understanding is that it is necessary. As colleagues have already said, it works in Estonia. We're now offering... The government proposes that it could be in a few years' time. Well, I think today we are witnessing the fact that we have one very strong group that will probably not be in the position of its Prime Minister and Minister for Finance. And we have to be satisfied with what the Prime Minister has said. So that this is actually a good job they are doing and that it will increase the social protection of workers in these regimes. Well, maybe it's right, yeah, but... on the one hand. On the other hand, the economic downturn is just now. And let us go back to 2009, when during the previous crisis this micro-enterprises tax regulation was in general, and the Ministry of Economics was what came with this proposal... a long debate... and members of the Saeima assessed the economic situation as it was for the small business at that time. Small business and the economy in general in the first quarter of 2008, if looking at the data published by the public media... which has been made according to the SKDS order... At that time, the pessimism index of 100 percentage points was 35. And this really made it clear that such a light regime regulation is very, very necessary. And they also showed both their right hand and their wrong side. And it has to be recognised for these bad parties that, over the years, all the Saeima have amended, corrected, and I think that at the moment, there are so few of these bad parties that there is only one thing left - the Ministry of Finance simply does not like the fact that there is some separate tax regime. That is not good enough, of course, for big entrepreneurs too. And it was a time when there were construction companies, for example, divided into many, many small ones, and then really they were able to compete in this way for large entrepreneurs, who employ 300, 500, thousands of employees, and appear to be such a small... a micro-entrepreneur working with another 300 in a single chain, which is in fact all under one roof. But such schemes have, in principle, been abolished during the previous Saeima, and now all of them are mere myths. And, as I said earlier, it was decided in 2009 to introduce a micro-enterprises tax regime. This pessimism index was 35, which was very much out of 100 points - it was very much. At the moment, my fellow Members, this business pessimism index is 42 - even more so than was the case during the previous crisis. Operators are those who require this single transaction account. And the opposition is what now offers to put it in, based directly on the Estonian model, which is already working in Estonia. It is just a political decision. Colleagues, I call you to be... listen to and be aware of the fact that the Members of the Saeima are those who take responsibility for the decisions taken, and in their hands they are supporting or not supporting one or the other proposal, both by the government and by the opposition and by the position. At this point, I see that the government has submitted a budget and the Members of the Saeima simply defend it blindly, without listening to the essential arguments put forward by the opposition, and without realising their ideas. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U106	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U107	Thank you for the great, great attention that has also been paid, let me say, to my person during this debate, thank you all. But when it comes to the proposal, because the changes after, I think, must also talk about the proposal, it is important if someone has read it at all... then actually to me... It must be understood that in the future, so from next year onwards, only those who have this single transaction account, which, as we know, no bank is offering to open, and, in fact, this would mean that... Then no one could be a micro-entrepreneur anymore. And I think that such a proposal, in substance, in this law... the draft law cannot be supported. That's why... Moreover, I must invite the entire Saeima to agree together, as they say, in one unity and in accordance with and vote for the draft law in this budget package, where it is intended to create this joint transaction account at the time when commercial banks and the State Revenue Service will eventually align their systems and agree on how it could work in practice. Well, otherwise I have to say that... I'm so... I, of course, accept that many do not vote when they read the proposals, but I try to read the proposals, and in this case it would really be unacceptable to vote on this proposal because I... I would very much like people to be the taxpayers of micro-enterprises in the next year, and therefore after 1 January. And actually hand over micro... the fate of the payers for the resolution of whether they will offer such an account to be opened from 1 January or not - either, in my opinion, this would be a diletarian level of policy-making to which we should not, as we say, land, so, of course, this proposal should be rejected. But what am I... I have to say... Yes, thank you to those representatives of the previous government, as they say, who were responsible for the financial sector, who also admitted that these discussions with commercial banks on the single transaction account were indeed sufficient, so to say, lasting and perhaps not leading to the result. Well, that's my natural wish, of course, would be to try hard now to criticise what wasn't done during the previous government... and this pressure on the State Revenue Service, for example from the Ministry of Finance... or the financial sector was not strong enough, but, as it was, it was. It's its own... for that activity and competence, the voter also gave his assessment. 13 The parliamentary elections and now we have moved forward. Yes, of course, you can make it faster, but at least I'm happy... and it was a great fight to get this thesis in that budget at all, that a single transaction account should be at all. It was a great fight because, of course, no one wants a change, where it is with the officials of the Ministry of Finance. That is also true. Another thing, of course, is... I am very surprised that Mr Zakatistov does not come and talk about his own budget, because when nobody sees him, he is usually a very, very active speaker. He's actually a bad cop who's always... if there is any good initiative, he always rejects it. For example, if you need to support an entrepreneur, he always comes up with 10 reasons why he should not do so, for example, during a comma crisis. And then there's always that fight. So I'm just surprised he doesn't come now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U108	Time to break. Registration of the presence of Members. It was a success. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U109	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. Debate on Proposal No 4. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U110	Hello, colleagues! One second... So in relation to... on the proposal to speak. It seems very interesting to me that it is difficult for the majority of the Saeima to approve... and reject the proposal made by this opposition member Dombrovskis and Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which in fact defines who is the taxable person for micro-enterprises. In particular, the substance of the proposal is as follows: the definition of a micro-enterprise taxable person, who is the owner of a micro-enterprise, who has acquired the status of a micro-enterprise taxable person and who has a single transaction account. Mr Feldman spoke before the break about the fact that we cannot now introduce this if the banks do not open a transaction account. I must reiterate to Mr Feldman and remind him that he is in a coalition of power and has the right to pass laws; he has a majority. And in fact, with the introduction of such a transaction account, the coalition, so the majority of power, can also be completely calm today, yesterday... tomorrow to oblige banks to open such a single transaction account in the territory of Latvia. And the whole problem! It's not a banking problem. Again, there's an old story about a scratch in another eye that you see, but the beam in your eye doesn't see. So it's just a legislative task. It is just like reducing these banking supervisory functions, which are essentially transferred from the police to the banks, which should be abolished so that the banks cease... might end terrorising entrepreneurs and Latvians. That's one thing. The second case that is relevant to the introduction of a single transaction account is... It is very interesting. We are always like such a lame man, a lame man who pulls around, and we have Estonia in front of us all the time. Historically, we can talk about taxes on many issues. Even for the same reinvested profits. Now it's a question. It works in Estonia. We're going somewhere again with it all... when Estonia is even further away from us in terms of competition, then we will introduce it as a great achievement or something. This is a huge mistake - not to do this at the moment. The proposal is logical and justified precisely for the reason that, now, how long we are going to be a lame donkey that is pulling off, increasingly lagging behind in the region. We are no longer compared to Estonia and Lithuania, and we are compared with Romania in the best case. We are one of the most lagging countries in the European Union for exactly the following reasons: that we have all the essential things that are intended to protect people and to promote business at all times too late, the latter, not the first... and so on, if. And then we boast of some huge achievement of sanctions or something else that... or for major repairs. They are also, as we see, a reduction in competitiveness. Therefore, dear people, you who listen to this live broadcast, you can see the nature of this proposal, 4, it is exactly one sentence that needs to be amended to the law: "The micro-business tax payer, the owner of a micro-enterprise that has acquired the status of a micro-enterprise tax payer and has a single business account." It's not so complicated! It does not pay absolutely nothing in the budget, no sands, the cost is zero. And from a supervisory point of view, it is also relatively very effective, because our coalition likes to monitor and control, and so on. Since Mr Feldman's speech is obviously aimed at the less educated or less informed sections of society in the hope that it will believe in these populist arguments, which are in fact not filled with any content and which absolutely do not prove that the problem is on the bank side. The problem is only on the legislator's side. Give the banks this right, impose such an obligation on the banks, and on 1 January all micro-enterprises taxable persons will have a single account in accordance with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U111	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U112	Dear colleagues, That coalition colleague too, who so much likes to remember his name! Listen to me, please! You cannot support this proposal because Latvian banks are not ready to open a single transaction account. Well, are you serious about that? We are talking about Latvian banks, Latvian commercial banks, which during the last two years, during your government, you have taken them to the point that they are even afraid of opening accounts for people. And you say that those banks... you do not have any tools to agree with those banks so that banks are prepared to open single economic accounts even if it is recorded in the law. What have you done, colleagues, over the last two years? I repeat to you... I repeat that in Estonia this regulation (this single economic account... a single transaction account) already works three - three! - years. You're a government for two years. You're... Mr. Feldman, this is not the time you're just... elected and you can speak... continue to talk about the fact that previous governments did or did not do something. I will remind you, Mr Feldman, that your colleague, Gatis Eglitis, is leading, by the way, the financial sector monitoring sub-committee. Couldn't this sub-committee have anything to do with the banks over the last two years? During these two years, so you somehow met about the Liepaja prison, but with this joint transaction account in Estonia you had absolutely no time... And I'll remind you... to you too, Mr Feldman, that you voted against the first proposal, which... The nature of the proposal, if you had read it, was of course to ask... give year - a whole year! - the government, in order to work on it and bring a simple proposal, not even solve it completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U113	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U114	Hello! After a break, I feel that Mr Dombrovskis is very much drawn up and obviously does not put pressure on this debate, but I call on you to come in because we have had a long time to debate this budget and it is important to debate it properly. And here I do not agree that it is that this specific proposal places some obligation on someone, for example, to open up... banks now come up with that service fast - a single transaction account that seems... by the way, it's not a panacea in itself. This simply says that those micro-enterprises who do not have this account can no longer exist at all. Well, I think it is absolutely harmful for the opposition to submit such a proposal. For example, if it really had already been its desire to have this single transaction account, then, for example, Mr Dombrovskis, who was the head of a think tank sponsored by a bank (an already bankrupt bank), would have been long with the banks, representing the financial sector, so that this single transaction account would be implemented as soon as possible in the Latvian business environment and, of course, in cooperation with the State Revenue Service. But that doesn't seem to be a good reason. And now, it turns out, the Microbusiness Tax Act is guilty that he has failed. That is, of course, very suspicious. I think it's not that it's gonna be a mistake if. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U115	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U116	Returning to the issue of banks and creating a single economic operating account, I will allow you to quote what the financial banking association presented in its presentation, pointing to the problem of high credit rates that exist in the country. ‘ Further development and efficiency of the insolvency and recovery process, including reduced time for return of investments to investors, as well as a significant increase in the amount of return investments - this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and the problem is pointed out by the banking sector." As one of the most important problems, the banking association points out: "encouraged zero tolerance to corruption, educational measures and training, explaining the impact of the shadow economy on individuals and on the economy as a whole". I think that this area of responsibility could also be linked to the Ministry of Justice in general, as well as to the group of colleagues of Krišjānis Feldman. Therefore, I strongly recommend that you look from the beginning around you and in your company, and in my group and then blame others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U117	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U118	The Commission did not support proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U119	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 49, abstaining - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U120	5. is a proposal by Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola, which provides for the introduction of a single transaction account for micro-enterprises. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U121	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U122	Dear colleagues, Together with this proposal, which... Well, I hope... especially those Members who say that they are reading very carefully... and the previous proposals - this actually forms the whole set of proposals on the basis of which Estonia is working on this single economic account by means of completely analogous legislation. And the commercial banks also have this legislation... It's done, and it's happening there. But, of course, they... As my fellow Members say, there is a saying: those who want to, they are looking for solutions, those who do not want or, more precisely, do not know, they are looking for justifications why something will not happen to them. Well, it is, from time to time, everything that can be said about the attitude of some of them to these single economic account proposals. There were also calls from my fellow Member Eglīks for some other members of the coalition (mostly those working either directly or in the vicinity of the Ministry of Finance)... call for them to speak and defend in some way the position of the Ministry of Finance. And in general, from the time of the entire government, 99 percent, all the Members who spoke talked about the Ministry of Finance, as if it were the Ministry of Finance's fault at what is now happening both with this Microbusiness Tax Act and with other so-called alternative tax regimes, as a self-employed, a beneficiary of patent fees... the payer and so on. But I would like to say, colleagues, that it is not so much the Ministry of Finance that is responsible, even though it is the Ministry of Finance, which drives (at least formally) all these draft laws, because the Ministry of Finance is by nature a government accountant... But let's ask a question, colleagues who are then responsible for business policy in the country. Is that really the Ministry of Finance? For example, in the company it will be an accountant or a financial director who would be responsible for the development of the company, for the company's work with customers, for the sales volumes? Of course not! This responsible ministry, colleagues, is the Ministry of Economics. It is the Ministry of Economics that is responsible for what happens to businesses in the country, including start-ups, with small business, with early entrepreneurs and so on. And the logical question, colleagues, is where then the Ministry of Economics has been all this time, while the government has been discussing them... alternative tax regimes, micro-enterprises, self-employed persons, and so on. So if we look at the wording of the bill, colleagues, then the Ministry of Economics is not there at all. It has not even participated in the drafting of amendments to this draft law. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs have not even participated in the meetings of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission where these amendments were discussed. Actually, a good question is, well... where is the parliamentary secretary of this ministry then? Where are these ministries, the members of this minister's party? Do they have anything to say today to defend? Because, colleagues, silence is consent. I think you do not think that the fact that you were silent means that all the fault will be borne by the Ministry of Finance alone. In silence about this, the Minister for Economics agrees to give his consent and support to what the Ministry of Finance does. Therefore, I believe colleagues that all of them, as if the amendments proposed by the Ministry of Finance were, de facto, the same... Economics Minister's policy vision of entrepreneurship in the country, about starting a business, about small business and so on. And it is his party colleagues who I am calling for an answer about why - why? - you have the following (not to be heard) ... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U123	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U124	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U125	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 52, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U126	6. is the proposal of Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola to supplement Article 1 of the draft law with paragraph 7: "an economic operator - a micro-enterprises engaged in commercial activities involving the sale of goods". This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U127	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U128	7. also there is a proposal by Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola to supplement Article 1 of the draft law with point 8: “a craftsman - a micro-enterprise who independently creates or produces authors’ works”. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U129	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U130	Dear colleagues, This is about the so-called French model. I would remind you that the Ministry of Finance of Latvia has openly acknowledged that, when making these amendments, it has actually copied the existing regulations in Estonia, but with one difference, namely, if the tax rate in Estonia is 20 per cent, then, in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, why create the same or more favourable regulation, of course? The Ministry of Finance then proposed a higher tax rate of 25 per cent. So in Estonia - 20, the option offered in Latvia - 25 percent. Of course, the question itself - why did the Ministry of Finance analyse only Estonian experience? Why did the Ministry of Finance not look more broadly, did not make a wider comparative analysis of regimes operating in other countries, and did not analyse what regime would be more appropriate for Latvia? We have done so, and we have chosen from a number of countries whose experience we looked at, precisely the French regime, which was established quite recently, although it has been working for years and has succeeded enough. So the essence of the French model is that it does not primarily look at the taxpayer as such in a uniform... medium, regardless of what this taxpayer is dealing with, in which sectors and what their cost structure is, but actually divides three main types of business, in fact even four, but we only take three. The first, of course, is those entrepreneurs who here are called merchants dealing with the sale of standardised goods or products. These could be traders, small producers and farms. It is assumed that the share of eligible business expenses for such entrepreneurs could be around 61 % of the total turnover. Go on. The next group is what French is called artisans, or craftsmen. These are those who constantly create or manufacture authors' works. So, unlike the first category, we are talking here not about standardized goods or standardized products that are sold to most, but we are talking actually about creativity, about relatively unique products. So here it is like a roof regulation, under which the artists, the creative persons, who create its creations, could work... and here it is assumed that the amount of eligible costs could reach half - 50 per cent of the total turnover. Then there is also the third category, which is the providers of professional services. Here (as opposed to the first two) it is not about a product or a product, but about a service. This is about accountants, professional service providers, lawyers, and so on. Here it is assumed that, of course, for such a category... Those who provide services... by the nature of their activities, their proportion of eligible business costs could be reached indicatively, up to a maximum of one third of their turnover. From this, a variety of approaches are developed in France as well... but the notional tax rates for those three main business types. That's why... Well, here, colleagues, I would also like to emphasise... Since recently one of the members of the coalition, even one of the leaders of the coalition party has called in Latvia... called on the government to propose modern regulation for micro-enterprises... So here, colleagues, there is a modern regulatory offer. Well, of course, some coalition Members... Like Mr. Feldman... considers it absurd what works in France, but, colleagues, then you should... Well, you needed to say when Mr. Macron was on his visit to us, to say to him: "Mr. President, you have, by the way, absurd regulation of micro-enterprises in the country." Well, which isn't modern at all. I guess no one said that...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U131	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U132	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues, I will refer to an interview and comment by the Head of the Chamber of Industry and Commerce of Latvia on this tax reform. Neither decision-makers, i.e. the Minister of Finance and Government, nor administrators, i.e. the State Revenue Service, can at present justify with the data how the proposed model will affect specific groups of persons, how much additional activities will be carried out, and how large the range of persons in each of the individual groups affected by the notified changes will be, how the traceability of information will be ensured. There is also insufficient prediction of a change in public behaviour in relation to introduction... No dosage adjustment is All in all, therefore, government decisions are very poorly prepared and not research-based and are very unconvincingly explained to the public. That is why I am asking for support for my fellow Members' proposal and not to rely on the unprepared and unparalleled decisions proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U133	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U134	Yes, colleagues! Last time, when we discussed this new concept in the form of a separate bill, the Member who opposed the bill was surprised why there is a plan to reduce the tax burden on businesses with relatively high turnover. I would just remind you that the micro-enterprises tax regime was applied throughout the first years to companies with a turnover of up to 100 thousand euros per year. And it is also close to the level proposed by these amendments - the turnover of economic operators up to 118 thousand euros per year... the rate would be 15 per cent for a group of undertakings which, by their nature of activity, are also expected to have relatively large acquisitions, which generally account for turnover. If, in turn, after the type of activity, the company is one that... which provides services or itself creates a new product which does not require large purchases and sales transactions, the permissible turnover and the different interest rate respectively are limited. The permissible turnover level from 100 to 40 thousand was reduced precisely so as not to use their regime in good faith or perhaps to identify these cases where micro-enterprises use the tax treatment for which it is not intended. And one of the reasons is that there was no calibration or such special approach to certain groups of operators. This proposal is more well thought out, either, by analysing the different types of companies and the specific nature of their activities, so it is absolutely justified to review the permissible turnover rates again. I call for support for this proposal and for all the others in the context of the joint offer. Targeted micro-enterprises (Sound defect.) ... the regime, taking into account the positive experience of France, taking into account the positive experience of Estonia - making the tax easier to administer - and also, of course, the experience we see in other European countries. And everyone is thinking about some special support mechanisms not only for start-ups, in our sense, not only for high-tech companies, but for companies that provide services or produce products that are needed in everyday life, based on local consumption.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U135	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U136	Yes, well, the specific proposal is simple... If someone has read the proposal, it is about making one specific definition. And here are some definitions. Proposal No 6 was also on the definition, and the next one is on the definition, which means different definitions. It was also possible to combine, if honest, into one proposal. But what is most embarrassing me, colleagues, what one colleague said is that he can't decide in any way which country it is... which country model then really he wants to bring into the environment of Latvian business, as he says, because on 22 September, for example, in an interview with LETA Dombrovskis, he said that he is even ready to establish a whole party to be... in order to be able to stimulate the economic development of Latvia at last. What he could not do when he was a Minister for Unity Economics. And it will be a party whose main ambition will be to build the Baltic Singapore. And the question for me here is whether Mr Dombrovskis's hobby is to some extent not simply to gather the most diverse laws from different countries, for example, to talk before the elections about introducing Singapore and a minimum pension of EUR 400 in Latvia. I do not know how he is doing this, but the EUR 200 pension will be (at a certain length), by the way, next year. Today we are talking about the need to introduce the French model. So we should introduce all kinds of models, but not specifically look at the reality of the situation in Latvia and how real people could work better. And that is why these calls, including for the Ministry of Finance, are being made to work towards better and simple regulation and, finally, to achieve the same single transaction account from 2022. And just so that this simplified tax can also be paid. In my opinion, this is what people need, not Singapore's kind of model, where every sentence can be put forward as a separate proposal and a long and broad speech, or, for example, the French model, where every proposal can also be submitted separately and we are pleased to see how many proposals have been put forward. I just, well, try, I'm calling... I invite - which then remains for me - Mr Dombrovskis once to understand which country model he really wants to introduce in Latvia, and also to answer the questions why he did not do it when he was a minister for the economy. It is difficult, among other things, to understand their criticism of the opposition and the conflicts between such opposition in relation to the Ministry of Economics because, if the memory does not hesitate, it was the FAO colleagues who actively supported and voted for the existing Minister of Economics, by the way, without even being in a coalition and in any respect in relation to the coalition, voted in favour of the existing Minister of Economics and supported everyone. Then I do not understand whether there is now any kind of dispute, a conflict between opposition parties, where even now one is criticising another that it has, however, supported the wrong economic minister or something. So, no, well, thank you, of course, you're also constructive... The opposition, let us say, sometimes we see work that we support these, now coalition ministers, also express their confidence, that is right. Well, here, of course, I return to that French versus Singapore model where Dombrovskis would need to understand, before the party is established, in which... in which direction he wants to go. And, of course, we are all interested in the success of introducing a minimum pension of EUR 400, which is also a very interesting issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U137	Colleagues, I recall that the proposal reads as follows: “a craftsman, a micro-enterprise that independently creates or produces authors’ works”. Please return to the proposal. The debate is already very broad. Also for the new parties and the whole spectrum. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U138	Yes, colleagues! Thank you, Mr Feldman. Let's start with... let us start with Mr Feldman's embarrassment about the number of proposals or proposals... or how. Well, I somehow... At first, you say that you are learning to read and that you are reading very carefully, then you are being confused about those proposals. You can, Mr. Feldman, look at it again there... where all those proposals are put together in a single bill, which was examined if I remember correctly, last week and... where you were even the Member who spoke 'no' and called French and also partly Estonian workers legislation absurd. And also populist. Okay, but populism, as I said, I will not comment. I am also pleased that you are so aware of my plans for the party and so. I understand that after some time you will probably also ask if it is possible to join this party... and so on. We will also be able to discuss it then, perhaps. What about... No, colleagues say no, Mr. Feldman. I'm sorry... Regarding pension reform. You will soon, Mr Feldman, have an opportunity to look at how this can be done and perhaps also to speak... speak against and tell me how absurd it is. As regards the countries, Mr Feldman, you will now support Estonian copying... So to copy the experience of a country is obviously not a problem. Well, that's the difference, Mr. Feldman... Whoever is interested in me will study it. I know what is happening in many countries and try to get it from each country the best and most suitable for Latvia. That’s how it works. — Sound Break. ... Mr. Feldman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U139	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. ( Pause) Mr. Dolgopolov, please. Mr Dolgopolov has now left the sitting. That concludes the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U140	In the Commission proposal 7 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U141	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U142	8 / 8 - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U143	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U144	Thank you. Colleagues! Here I will take the opportunity to explain to you a little bit about why it is worth learning from France in terms of...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U145	Mr. Dombrovskis! Let us return to the debate on the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U146	Yes, but this particular proposal... Madam President, this is about... on the need to profile taxpayers, and I would like to give Members an introduction, I take a historical view of the way in which France has reached this opinion. I think it would be interesting for colleagues to listen to this. You see, when it comes to taxing small business... France understood quite quickly, of course, that most tax revenues are collected from a relatively small number of large, mostly large, companies. And there are very many small businesses (some call them lifestyle companies and so on) from which they are not taxed to such a large extent, but of course some of which should be taxed. Thus, France, some after the Second World War, came to the so - called presumptive tax system that was actually complete (not to be heard). ... in this field. So, for example... Because it worked... Let's say, if the business worked as a cafe, then in fact this system worked in such a way that a tax was imposed on each table of the cafe. The tax inspector came, counted the number of tables and applied a presumption tax on this basis. That, of course... Either, if it was a hotel, the number of windows or numbers were counted. And then, in this way, a very simple system of administration was combined, as well as all the small business gave its contribution to society. In time, this evolutionaryized more into a system that is a taxpayer's profile. In France, there is also, in fact, another fourth category. This is the seasonal business that does exactly... seasonal business, which operates exactly in the hotel business and which has a rather different tax regime, which is mainly due to the fact that this business works mainly during the summer - when there is a tourist season. Consequently, the other arrangements for paying taxes are also applied. Who's that... Here I think that, given that tourism is also a rather important sector in Latvia... I think it would be possible, in time, to add this fourth category to our proposed order. But this approach, colleagues, I think gives a very good answer to the question: how can one combine the need for at least some kind of taxation on small businesses at the same time, and do so as precisely as possible by dividing it into three categories: those that produce or sell standardised goods, those that produce and sell unique goods or new products, and those that provide these professional services. This last proposal, such as colleagues, I think quite well responds to the frequently asked questions of the Ministry of Finance, the criticism of this regime, namely that it is used by the majority of those professional taxes... Forgive me, professional service providers to optimise their tax payments. So that you, fellow Members, will see in future proposals, it is... Considering that the proportion of eligible costs for professional service providers in their total costs would be... is quite small, here is generally assumed to be a third, maximum. It is then also proposed that professional service providers will be offered to pay higher taxes as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U147	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U148	Yeah, colleagues. This proposal. In my opinion, it is also absolutely appropriate to describe entrepreneurs by group. This offer is somewhat taken from our neighbour. And I would like to answer, however, why the opposition submits such loans from a neighbouring country to this draft law. Because it's just... the regimes that have been in operation so far, which have been shown as a successful, working regime, the basic norms of these amendments, which have been tabled from the government and which are supported by the responsible Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission by Members... simply renders it uncompetitive. Latvian entrepreneurs, including service providers, will be much more uncompetitive than our neighbouring country entrepreneurs. Where else is it? If we look at this internal competition, these small entrepreneurs with big entrepreneurs will unfortunately no longer be able to compete, and its choice will be very simple: to go in the shadow economy, to work in a large company, or in the worst case, which would be... That would be a large population of an abandoned country. There has already been a crisis in the past, and I would call for the mistakes made in the past to be avoided. For this approach that we are taking away something from Estonia. Mr. Feldman earlier... I couldn't understand these here... Mr Dombrovskis' point of criticism for taking some kind of models. France, Estonia, Singapore - well, call it what you want, take it even from Malaysia, there is no difference. The problem is that in Latvia special tax regime as such... it will, by its very nature, no longer exist. And it will be the competitiveness of small businesses. That is why the opposition has also offered its vision by taking up the basic offer of Estonia, which has been operating for several years... include our legislation and call on other colleagues to support it. This proposal, as Mr Vjačeslav Dombrovskis has already mentioned, is specifically a profile of the types of service providers, the types of business, and should be supported in this common model. It will also have the next proposals related to this, so that they are incorporated into such a normal, understandable law. At the moment, it is Members who have the opportunity to improve this law, and today, with this debate, we have still not heard any arguments about why the existing regulation is better than that proposed, except that someone is beginning to talk about the texts. I would call for these proposals to be seen as a cluster, because it is also... These are components of the draft law which the opposition had already tabled once and which was not even referred to the Commission. Well, then we were forced to go that way. That is why we are also debating this debate here today, and this debate will also continue. Colleagues, yes, I call for support for proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U149	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U150	Colleagues! I would like to say that 10 years ago, when I finished RTU with a Bachelor's degree, I wrote a diploma work - I compared the Estonian tax system with Latvia. The only thing I would like to say was that there was a conclusion that we were behind, well, somewhere for 10 years. At that time, it was. Today, well, I could say that the reinvested profits, which we do not tax, we have already introduced too late, and I guess we are behind now, all 15-20 years from Estonia. But what exactly did I want to say today? Both the fact that Member Feldman accused Vyacheslav of mentioning some French example there and how they introduce that tax when they count tables or chairs... I want to remind my colleagues from Vidzeme... That is, Mr. Mozhville, Ieva Krapāne, Blumberg... Because when we... During the pre-election period, we all talked about the French experience and each of our constituents... Every day we told our constituents about the French example that we will introduce. It's not gonna be that we're paying for... During the year, the whole turnover, that there are situations that a man opens his own booth for the season... It's not going to happen anymore. We promised! And it was France's example that we talked about how the French solve it... and solved the problems of their restaurants, and everyone was satisfied. I think that is why we became Members. I think you should keep your words and vote... and support these proposals. That is first. And secondly, about Singapore. We even had a working group, I now turn to all the JPV LVs... We had a great working group with excellent supporters who, however, worked in Singapore. It wasn't just a theory, it was a practice. And now we all sit and remain silent, as if nothing was said, nothing was promised. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U151	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U152	Colleagues! I fully support the fact that we should really be more... less perhaps to look around and take over such unprepared practices, but more to apply, let us say, the rule of law to the situation that Mr Feldman pointed out to us. However, I have to answer here that this model of party financing, which was imposed on last year's budget, was, on the part of Mr Feldman's party, very much advertised, directly using foreign practices, setting an example for the same Estonia. I think... Probably the same France was mentioned there. Here in other countries party funding is much, much higher than with us in Latvia, and that is why we now simply have to take over this practice. As we can see from this example, taking over this negative practice - party financing - has done even more harm: public confidence has been weakened and we also have some customers in this area who have shown that they will never have enough. Therefore, returning to the same question, I believe that the proposers, as we know, have really studied this issue to the bone, they understand this here... the possibility of applying this model in Latvia, so, well, to accuse them that this model is not proper... not applicable in Latvia, it would not be correct. I call for a real debate on the specific subject in which we could help our entrepreneurs, not on the fact that the opposition has once again done something wrong. If we want to improve this situation together and to prevent the damage that the Cabinet of Ministers has brought to the Saeima, indeed by transferring responsibility to the Saeima's shoulders, then I think that, by the way, the UK accusations to the Ministry of Finance are, in my opinion, quite rightly justified to the extent that we do not hear today any justification from the parties involved, who are directly responsible for preparing this draft law. We do not have either Mr Bondara or Mr Zakatistova - complete silence around us. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U153	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U154	Yes, thank you, colleagues. I offer, colleagues, a look at the budget and the tax package in the context of the budget from... through the prism, like a state and... as public officials, as the leading politicians in this legislative package, not only offer the means to spend the budget, but what mechanisms and tools are offered to the economy, to taxpayers in order to earn money. To be able to earn, to provide their families, to provide jobs to ensure competitiveness. To ensure competitiveness not only on the Latvian internal market, but on the Baltic market and the European Union market. And indeed, the best experience in neighbouring countries, complicating it and creating an optimal option, adapting it to the Latvian economy, is a tool that could directly allow people to earn, not to go to insolvency, not to go to benefits and unemployment benefits, but to provide directly instruments to provide jobs, to secure work and to secure income. And income not only for their families and personally for them, but also for the state budget. Unfortunately, in the context of the budget package, I can only see how money is spent, how money is spent, and I do not see any instruments that tell us how we will earn, who will earn and who will support them with profit-making instruments, or what these additional tools will be. This proposal by Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and Dana Reizniece-Ozola directly gives them an instrument for a certain category of population, how to earn for themselves, how to earn the state, how to pay taxes, how to secure the family. I therefore ask for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U155	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U156	Yes, colleagues, this is one of the proposals for a conceptual approach to segment taxpayers depending on their nature of activity. In this particular case, those micro-enterprises taxable persons who are service providers are also subject to a higher rate, given that expenditure related to their professional activities would be less. They should be smaller. Such segmenting is also, in my opinion, very much in favour - also in the light of our previous experience - of economic operators, self-employed workers. One of the reasons why we limited the proportion of eligible expenditure during the previous reform envisaged that at least 20 per cent of turnover should be left as a tax base. Unfortunately, there has been a negative experience that sometimes service providers, such as legal service providers, have actually tried to write off almost all their expenses... including even, of course, their work suits in eligible expenditure, and thus, in practice, tax evasion. This approach is based on an example from France - and perhaps also on Mr Feldman as such. To him and the rest. Segmentation of tax payments and application of different rates - this is the experience that is implemented... France has introduced this principle, which is based on France. Simplified tax administration and introduction of a transaction account - this is the experience that has been taken from Estonia. And I think colleagues that it is really worth looking at what other countries are doing. Learn from best practices in other countries - it is far smarter than writing unthinkable political letters to neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U157	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U158	I have to say this: it is not only my dissonance that Mr Dombrovskis is living all the time between Singapore, France, Estonia and all the other countries. It's like a walker, you know. It's always better somewhere else. But I was embarrassed that Mr Dombrovskis said, like white lies, in one of the previous proposals during the debate. If you remember, he said that, given that the Saeima previously rejected the bill, we submitted these proposals in this law. Well, that would mean there's this... these proposals, as well as this proposal, are if... be submitted after that draft law has been submitted, which was rejected by the Saeima, which... What is it, where 10,000 wages... apply a low tax on their income if someone remembers. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Because these proposals were submitted by the applicants on 30 October at 11.10, while the draft law allegedly rejected before and why these proposals on 30 October were submitted with all the same articles, with the same text only on 4 November. So several days later. So, well, it's the process of... We had to listen to the legislative process as they were... such deception. Because it's not... Because it has not been that the law has been rejected and then these proposals have been tabled. It's completely different. Proposals were put forward, and then obviously so that... to perhaps lead to some debate about the fact that 10 thousand per month... that turnover per month... that then we need a low tax and that it is the micro enterprise that has 10 thousand per month that income. Income and not turnover. Well, then... and then, so to embarrass the Saeima... I call for such impreciseness to be prevented and for it to be said, as it is, that we just wanted to use the same thing twice. Double. To debate the same subject twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U159	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U160	Dear colleagues, It is very good that Mr Feldman honestly admitted that he did not understand either the substance of the proposal or what it was about. That is why all these speeches about political affiliations, political plans... Singapore, France and so on. This is not about it. This is a proposal that is really necessary if we want to talk about improving the micro-business tax law. Segmentation in this case, especially for micro-enterprises, is extremely important. Just to set the tax on micro-enterprises at 25 per cent - it is very good in terms of revenue, but it will not work, because it really leads to a number of micro-enterprises going down. Segmentation helps to differentiate between different types of taxation, depending on the particularities of each type of sector. For each type of activity. And that is why the proposal is to be supported not only as a separate proposal, but, to be honest, those former ones should also be supported. And there could be a further discussion on whether it is an exhaustive list, or whether it could still be complementary, given that the activities are in general very diverse, diverse and very complex. Therefore, when it comes back to its proposal, it is indeed - the honour of which is honor - a systemic proposal, and the system of the proposal is proposed. Unfortunately, the fact that people do not understand what this is about does not justify the legislators in general from making inadequate decisions. And the last one. It is very difficult to base the substance of the proposals on the voting machine. The voting machine has no ears, there are no other parts of the body, but there is, the only long button for pressing. And this must be taken into account, also in terms of the efficiency of our work. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U161	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U162	Yeah, thank you. The personality caught by the sexual scandal and family distrust was unable to realize his party “3 × 500” in politics...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U163	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U164	Yes, colleagues, on this proposal. I would like to remind Mr Feldman, however, that your investigative capacity is really fantastic, but I think that, after these votes, people will not have to have the particular ability to understand that the opposition twice offered a different, alternative regulation for micro-enterprises, and also to postpone the draft law as such in principle and to develop it over the course of the year... to develop a new framework. That is what I think every citizen will see, and behind these votes there will of course be the names of Members; who has had a position, and I think we will all see that. With regard to what will happen afterwards... In this case, if we come to a situation where the group representing the author of this bill does not speak, then I will have to start quoting him. Mr Asheraden has today managed to do and came up with the sentence that after the crisis we should prepare ourselves for an economic leap. Yeah. And there's also the discussion that could then be. I think this economic leap will be - for whom? It will certainly not be micro-entrepreneurs and these small entrepreneurs. That economic leap is likely to take place in the fact that Krišjānis Feldman and Arvilas Asheraden and others will come and demand additional over 100 million airBaltic out of the budget money that these small entrepreneurs will earn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U165	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U166	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U167	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! - 30, 53, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U168	9. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola. Defines the purpose of the draft law. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U169	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U170	Dear colleagues, This is a very important and conceptual issue. I am now telling you that some colleagues are not all reading the proposals... I would like to read to you the aim of the law, which is now... current legislation. Thus: ‘The purpose of the law is to reduce the administrative and tax burden on micro-enterprises, in particular during the start-up period... “ and now, my fellow Members, I would like to... Please, pay attention! The following text follows: ‘... and in sectors with low income potential, while respecting the common interest of society in the field of fair competition and social security." Well, here's my fellow Members, I believe that the aim of this law at the moment is to give very wrong settings, especially in the section that it gives very clear, well, the least... as a minimum, the hint that those who act as micro-enterprises operate in some poor sectors with some low growth potential, so they are immediately placed in such a dubious position. I would also like to read to you, colleagues, what the same Global Business Monitoring says about entrepreneurship, under which, I think, the politicians and politicians of almost all developed countries are signing. So, colleagues, please note: "Business is an essential driver of public health and well-being and also an important driver of economic growth. It promotes innovation, which is necessary not only to exploit new opportunities, promote productivity and create jobs, but also to help address some of the most difficult societal challenges." So, colleagues, here, well, nothing is said about some low growth... low growth potential sectors or something like that. All entrepreneurs are doing important work. Here is also what has been said, either, at least for some colleagues such a view, that, behold, those right and best entrepreneurs are so-called start-up, those sighted, perhaps there, a maximum of 400 or how. And everyone else is like that, well, the second-class-- at best. And then, colleagues, is that the “lifestyle entrepreneurs”... That's the name it's called... This is not the case, my fellow Members. And it's very wrong to talk like this. Economics, economics, colleagues - this is not a static thing where there is a company, it has an employer, then there are employees, and that's everything. The economy is as an ecosystem... is a very dynamic system, where its part on the downside of the pyramid are those young entrepreneurs who are always trying to control, introduce some new ideas in absolutely every economy... to compete in areas of society and with these new ideas, to challenge those already working in these areas. And this layer, my fellow Members, is extremely important, because in this way there are constant challenges for those who were once one of these entrepreneurs and who have managed to create their own business. And the more such challenges, the more active this layer is, the stronger the companies - the medium-sized and large companies that we have. Therefore, to give an immediate statement that they seem to be operating in some of the wrong sectors, colleagues, is extremely wrong. Then I, my fellow Members, would also like to draw your attention to the fact that... in particular the words ‘in particular during the start-up period’ in the current law. And there is nothing in the Ministry of Finance: absolutely no measure that would give an incentive, especially during the start-up period, that would only happen if the tax regime were particularly favourable during the start-up period. There is nothing like that in the current legislation or in the places proposed by the Ministry of Finance. But such proposals have been made on our part, and you will see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U171	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U172	Continuing the work of my colleague, I want to read the current aim of the law, which is in the wording of the current law, to the very end, because Vjačeslav was up to the point where it was said that the task of micro-enterprises tax is to support the sector with low income potential, then it is a comma and then follows: “... while respecting the common interest of the public, fair competition and social security." It seems innocent and as if positive words - we take care of fair competition and social security, but in fact this is part of the sentence, which, by definition, has coded the attitude of entrepreneurs towards the aim of the law... micro-enterprises, as such, are likely to distort competition and certainly undermine social security. And these are the words which, for this reason, must be taken away from the purpose of the law. I would not be so concerned about them if, in this draft piece of legislation that is put forward in the budget package, it was precisely these key words - the micro-entrepreneurs, the demise of competition, the micro-entrepreneurs, the demise of social security - that would not be used to restrict this regime. Our proposal is to leave the aim of the law, where it is said that this is a regime which must support entrepreneurship, which must ensure economic activity, without making there any 50 greys and suspecting in the very definition of the law that this is a regime that is used by all kinds of cheats. Colleagues, the same Global Entrepreneurship Monitor or the World Business Browser in its analysis shows that in Latvia last year 15,4 percent or 186 thousand... A little more people are operating in early business tax regimes, and its argumentation of 68 percent of these surveyed people is to earn a living. To earn a living, not to cheat or to circumvent tax regimes in any other way, and that is why such solutions to support small business regimes should be available. We have already talked a great deal about various statistical data, but this same study also shows that in Latvia only a third of the population - even less so - agreed with the claim that starting a business in our country is easy. This is one of the lowest in Europe. It is even lower, colleagues than Belarus. Well, and comparison: in Sweden, 80 percent of citizens think it is easy to start a business (Sweden, which we believe is a relatively expensive country in the area of taxation), Poland - 90 percent. Well, we've got the same level as up to the stars. But in any case, what we should do right now - if we cannot offer any additional motivation for starting a business, then at least we don't steal a branch on which we sit and destroy the last desire of those who want to take risks, they want to start their own business, they want to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U173	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U174	Yes, colleagues! I am in favour of this proposal - it is a very good proposal in nature, there is one nuance. Let us simply look at both versions in a comparative way. Thus, the wording proposed by Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola reads as follows: ‘The purpose of the law is to promote entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and creativity by reducing the administrative and tax burden on micro-enterprises, in particular during the start-up period’. And accordingly, the version from which it comes... Such an addition is proposed as follows: ‘The objective of the law is to reduce the administrative and tax burden on micro-enterprises, in particular during the start-up period, as well as in sectors with low income potential, while respecting the common public interest in the field of fair competition and social security.’ So that's the original version I have to say first: the law cannot in itself be... Let's say, the first sentence in the original version of this can't be made, saying that they're reducing... that they will reduce the administrative burden. The purpose of the law cannot be to reduce the administrative burden; the law can be to promote commercial activity, to promote development and everything else. This is in essence because reducing administrative burdens is, in fact, simply an administrative task that can be done without creating a specific law. It's not... the legal structure... the law on administrative burden reduction as such in substance. There is illogical, legal illogical in general in the target formulation, which is the original version. And so the objective of this law alone should be amended, because such a generally absurd legal structure should not be allowed. From this point of view, the proposal made by my colleagues Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola is very correct. There is one small component that should be corrected, so it should be confirmed and then it should be corrected. This can be done, it does not mix the substance of the matter at the moment. But I want to emphasise such a detail that it is written there: the purpose of the law is to promote entrepreneurship, comma, and business. I must remind you that, under the Commercial Law, commercial activity is one of the types of business. In fact, when we say the word "business", we automatically introduced the word "business" into that word, because all commercial activities are, in any case, by law and also by legal theory, business. Consequently, it only results in a editorial, technical improvement that would be such a breakdown of hair and a connection to my colleagues. But in essence, you have understood that the main emphasis is on the fact that lawmaking cannot be the law on administrative burden reduction. The administrative burden is simply reduced by Prime Minister Kariņš, the JCPOA and other power coalition parties who should do so, not by creating laws, but simply by carrying out administrative actions within their mandate. The law, on the other hand, must be designed to help improve the tax situation in the country, to help competitiveness issues and so on. And even from the point of view of legal theory, there can be no law, in my opinion, to form such negative forms, so that we limit something there, so that we limit the administrative burden, but just from the positive form. At least it teaches... teaches law schools, and so I am taught that laws are actually written... in fact from a positive form. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U175	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U176	Dear colleagues, I also call on you to think about why it is important that the objectives of the law are so clear and formulated, from this point of view: what the Ministry of Finance proposes to do is to fully unify tax regimes absolutely for all. In fact, the Ministry of Finance proposes that we have the whole economy so that everyone would be either employers, of course, very few employers or very many employees. But think, colleagues, about such a thing. Every person, every individual actually... Can you tell me... it looks simple... choose from two things - security, that is, his job security, or what risks it involves, and income in such a job. From this point of view - if he is, of course, a worker - the maximum safety in the labour market is chosen, because he is actually guaranteed by his employer a lot - a stable wage, the fact that he cannot, it is impossible to be laid off so easily, and so on. And then think about the motivation for the worker to become an entrepreneur? Because it actually means he refuses the safety of all the jobs he is offered to him by the status of worker - from the guaranteed salary and so on - and moves into an environment that is extremely insecure, where he is dependent on what he will or will not be able to sell... That's what his income will be. Then the whole Ministry of Finance also offers to keep absolutely the same... identical tax burden. And we remember that the tax burden on labour is one of the highest in the world. Then the question remains: what is the motivation for becoming an entrepreneur? And the Ministry of Finance does understand what it does? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U177	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U178	Yes, colleagues, on proposal 9. At the moment, I will allow a little bit of what our Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš has said, yesterday when Latvian Radio talks about social security and alternative tax regimes - that changes are made as slowly as possible. One is about this speed, Mr. Kariņš's opinion. I would also like to ask Members to get to know the association Small Sea fishermen, for example... what such societies that are real in this mode - what they think about this Kariņa’s “as slow as possible” speed... What do they think about it. But - important - in this same interview Mr. Kariņš also refers to the Covid-19 during the first outbreak... that it was discovered how many workers are socially protected and how many are not. It should be noted that during this first outbreak they were exceptional circumstances. I think that not only have these entrepreneurs operating under this special regime been in difficulty and have had problems, but also have access to the general tax regime for these entrepreneurs... I found myself in trouble. And if we look at how the costs of the crisis were divided, how much the aid was paid, then... Colleagues, I am looking, Mr Feldman has applied for the next debate. Maybe you could refresh all the Members to remember how much the rescue of airBaltic cost us, how much we paid... How much did the “Latvian Railways” have to pay?...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U179	Mr Valaiņš, I will remind you that the subject of the debate is the specific draft law. The purpose of the law is therefore to promote entrepreneurship, business and creativity, and so on. Let's go back to the subject!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U180	That's right. What you have not read to the end, Mrs Mūrniece, is 'in the public interest in the area of fair competition and social security'. And that's what I can't agree with in the current version, and I'm trying to explain to you that in the field of social security... who, in the applicants’ opinion, and to which the Prime Minister also refers... is the crisis of the previous Covid-19 spring, during which it became clear that these entrepreneurs do not have this social guarantee, and now we are for them... Let us make them pay now, and this is also coded for the purpose of the law, namely these social guarantees and fair competition. This is something I cannot agree with in any way, and that is why there is also this alternative proposal, where these things have been taken out, and I think that is the main point. I therefore call on my colleagues to remember how cost-effective these social guarantees were for micro-entrepreneurs... beneficiaries and how much we paid such companies, large state-owned enterprises and other companies in support mechanisms to help overcome this crisis. On the other hand, this tax burden is being reduced for these large companies and increased for these small ones, but if we look at these support mechanisms, which are now, I think so... And for good reason, I mentioned in one of the previous speeches: just as January will come... February, when the Saeima will have to decide again... I think it will not be dozens, it will be hundreds of millions that will be invested again in the state capital company airBaltic. And how it correlates with this fair competition, as it correlates with these fair principles, social guarantees... Colleagues, its amounts are not comparable, and we are fighting here today for these small entrepreneurs all day long... Eighty thousand employees working in these companies and we invite you to listen in some way. At the end of the day, we will make life very difficult with these social guarantees for these entrepreneurs, but overall this will not improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U181	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U182	Thank you to the opposition colleagues for the easy-to-cock debates, including 50 greys, but when it comes to the proposal, it is... This proposal 9, which has been tabled, is rather strange, because it actually strengthens the objective of the law, which we are against... In the previous speaker's speech, we could hear claims, for example, against the fact that the aim of the law cannot be to reduce administrative burdens, but this proposal is specifically intended to record once more that the law is aimed at reducing administrative burdens. It should also be accepted that the proposal is also, however, not correct from a terminology point of view with regard to the use of the concept of business and business, since it is really things that actually involve one another. But what surprises me about everything more. I do not, of course, expect any of the Ministry of Finance to give a vision, but it is my private ability to give - why? Why is there such a dislike in the aim of the existing law, which deals with the common interest of society, in particular in the area of fair competition and social security, because I think... I am, of course, a conservative economist, and I have always thought that the so-called left liberalism approach that we saw when the SAICA supported the creation of a waste monopoly in Riga, so it was a waste monopoly that was such an anti-competitive approach, so looking... Well, I'm already on competition again, and I always think that competition should be fair, because... Although purely subjectively from a business perspective - well, a strange businessman who doesn't want to be a monopoly. Well, it's always been and it will be, but it's all... It is in the general interest of the State and the business environment to ensure fair competition. Social security too, however, is an important thing, which is particularly... Well, it is this year's crisis that will become increasingly important, and in the past people even protested and demanded social... Social security, including health, would be strengthened. Then it was... It happened very loud... And in general, too, so looking around what those opinions are, including in the circle of closest acquaintances, maybe also colleagues and other persons... Contacting other persons... people, perhaps voters, are absolutely clear that society is really concerned about its social protection. And interestingly, if in earlier times this was not so pronounced, especially in a relatively younger generation, younger workers may not be concerned about... including for your pension, for the accumulated pension capital at the first level, then now... I do not have precise data, but Latvia.lv service, where you can find out how much you have pension capital accumulated, is quite popular. I therefore conclude from this that fair competition would be the thing that should be left to the aim of this law, and also the talk about social security... That is a very important thing. It is strange for me to hear from the Social Democrats that they suddenly want to remove the issue of social security from the law... someone... in general, any purpose of the law. It would seem to me that it would naturally be that social democrats in all possible laws would like something to be about social security and that... Well, there would be social-democratic manifestations. And here, delete if? But, as I said, the proposal must be rejected purely as well, so in terms of terminology... the use of terminology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U183	Time to break. Registration of Members is closed. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U184	Dear colleagues, We will continue the budget session. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”. Debate on Proposal 9. I call on Members who wish to continue the debate to apply for a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U185	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! Reflecting on Mr. Feldman, who specializes in grey colours, the above, and returning to the definition of the aim proposed in the draft law, I think it is very important to understand the fact that, when defining the purpose of the law and adjusting the definition, then to the State Revenue Service and those who implement the law - they will be much simpler and more understandable, then realising and... in performing its functions and in fulfilling the law, to ensure an understanding of how to ensure the enforcement of the law in their life. And that's why I think it's the focus on it as micro-enterprises... and this law concerns simplification and access to commercial activities... and at the initial stage is precisely the instrument that would allow the tax administration, in the exercise of its control functions, to provide an understanding of how and by whom the taxpayer can, in what way and for how long... and at the same time it could also be a tool for the segmentation of certain taxpayers and perhaps even recommendations, thus ensuring that in the future the State Revenue Service could focus more on a consultative function rather than on a gardening or controlling function. I therefore ask my colleagues to support this proposal by making the legal framework and purpose of micro-enterprises clearer and more understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U186	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U187	Colleagues, I would also like to reflect what my colleague, Mr Feldman, said, is saying that the law must include... The objective of the law, the purpose of this law, must include a framework that concerns fair competition. From a legal point of view... I must make it clear to Mr Feldman that from the point of view of legal technique, competition issues are regulated by the Competition Law and in other laws, as this should not be repeated, should not be duplicated. But Mr Feldman, of course, might not know that, and that was probably why I have historically represented Mr Feldman's interests in the court. And when it comes to the evidence-based conservativeism that Mr Feldman is talking about in the context of this proposal, it must be said... It seems to me more that there are individual issues, including where such evidence-based ultra-liberalism of grey colour is present. Well, if someone has heard about Bordeaux from Norway, politicians... Then they will understand what they're talking about. Who does not know, they can look at Google and bring some parallels with Mr Feldman also in the context of this proposal - let us not repeat, let us not duplicate the laws. Competition law is about fair competition, and this law absolutely has no place. The proposal submitted is logical. As I said, there is little legal nuance about the fact that the word 'commercial activity' would not be necessary, because entrepreneurship itself means also commercial activity, but in all ways let us not support what Mr Feldman said.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U188	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U189	Yes, I, my fellow Members, would like to reflect on what Mr Feldman said about the misunderstanding about these social guarantees, about the addition to the norm proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is precisely this comment on social security guarantees that makes it an obligation and, in essence, increases tax payments to these special... micro-enterprises, and in essence makes it uncompetitive not only against our neighbours, but also internally uncompetitive, because if it is a company... micro-enterprise by nature, now he also has... there is no equal opportunity with any large company. If we compare a company with 100 employees, it is likely that there will be much more opportunities to participate in various public sector procurements, as well as other opportunities that open up... credit facilities and many benefits that open up to a large company but a small company, such as a household company, do not have such facilities, and any such burden makes it less competitive. We're so much cared for social guarantees... Either, for example, in the case of a municipality where people come for social assistance (people who do not have any income), the municipality then helps people in difficulty. And in this case you are not required to pay something from the beginning to the municipal budget, and then we will only help you. This is not shared. And in this case, too, this approach is devious. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U190	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U191	Colleagues! It is good that Mr Feldman is taking part in the debate, and then they become much more relevant - at least there is one to answer. I also wanted to comment on their surprise as to why the concepts of fair competition and social security should be excluded from the aim of the law. They are, of course, not guilty, and what we understand is that any tax regulation - whether it is a micro-enterprises tax regime or something else - must respect these principles. The fact that these norms are inserted here, in the aim of the law, unfortunately has a connotative meaning, and it must be read as follows: “Micro-entrepreneurs, you will have to pay a much higher tax because you have to take care of fair competition and social security. Micro-entrepreneurs, you will not be liable for VAT. Micro-entrepreneurs, you may not be a SIA. Micro-entrepreneurs, preferably in this mode you do not work at all, either, a maximum of 21 per cent or 19 thousand of you to stay here, but the rest of you, please go away!” It is, unfortunately, the purpose of this law and that particular part of it. Therefore, our proposal is to remove these principles, which seem to be good, but their function in this aim of the law is not good, and leave a simple motivation for this purpose of the law... in this aim of the law, to promote entrepreneurship, especially at the start of business.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U192	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U193	In the Commission, proposal 9 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U194	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U195	Proposal No 10 has been received from Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozolas. Article 2 of the draft law is intended to read as follows: ‘... the taxpayer of micro-enterprises may not act as an employee, official, shareholder or beneficial beneficiary in a commercial company engaged in the same or similar activities.’ This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U196	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U197	Dear colleagues, Thank you to the rapporteur for reading the substance of the proposal. As you can understand, this is an anti-avoidance norm. In addition, the anti-avoidance norm, which is quite precisely copied from it... The same anti-avoidance rate that works in Estonia as well... I think you can, colleagues, understand that, in essence, it says that you have to choose how you want to work in a particular area. If it is SIA, then you can't do it at the same time as the owner of a micro-enterprise, or if you somehow work as an employee or how... in a company, then you cannot also work at the same time as the owner of a micro-enterprise. I would like, colleagues, to focus particularly on this avoidance... tax optimisation element as such. For us, the Ministry of Finance and several government politicians have been talking for quite a long time about the fact that, here, those working in both the micro-enterprises tax regime and other alternative regimes (such as self-employed workers, beneficiaries of royalties and others) - that most of these people are doing so to optimise their tax payments or, in other words, to avoid paying taxes. So this is a very serious statement, a very serious accusation from the Ministry of Finance, even from the Minister of Finance personally. It is even recorded in the annotation of this draft law. But, colleagues, despite all the slogans that we need to build an evidence-based policy in the country, for example, the Ministry of Finance believes that it can simply record such a statement in the wording of the bill without offering any evidence at all that some substantial part of these people - businessmen - really use this regime to optimise their taxes in order to avoid paying taxes. But now, colleagues, let's look at facts that I think completely overturn this Ministry of Finance... The government theory that these alternative tax regimes are limited to tax optimisation. According to the Ministry of Finance itself, together the so-called alternative tax regimes operate, now an absolute maximum of 211 thousand people. That's the upper limit. It is possible that many people are simultaneously registered, such as both as economic operators and possibly also as beneficiaries of royalties, so that the true figure is probably lower than the 211 thousand. Then let us look at the same global business monitoring study that has already been mentioned, in which a survey has been carried out in Latvia, and whose aim is essentially to get an answer to the question - if we accidentally take 100 people, how many of them will be entrepreneurs? Thus, for that monitoring, there is a definition of an operator who is an early-stage operator. These are people who are so-called future entrepreneurs who are working on the creation of their own business, and those entrepreneurs who have founded have started their business in the last 3.5 years. And then, colleagues, it turns out that last year, there were 15.4 percent of the adult population, or more than 186 thousand people, who are very close to the top border of the 211 thousand. Therefore, colleagues, first of all, we find that 186 thousand entrepreneurs are the real entrepreneurs who work on creating their own business development rather than making tax optimisation... for avoidance purposes. If we look at this survey, 68 percent of these people respond that their main motivation to do business is to earn a living because there are few jobs. This too, colleagues, is one of the highest figures in Europe, a very non-European indicator, by the way. It is much lower in most European countries. And this indicator is even higher than in Belarus, colleagues. I think that even in Belarus, there are more job opportunities than in Latvia. Unfortunately, that is very disgusting to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U198	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U199	Colleagues, on this proposal, I would like to begin with one quote: 'To blame honest micro-entities that this tax is being used for tax optimisation schemes is totally unfounded, because monitoring compliance with tax laws is not their function. On the other hand, it would be illogical to punish them for the failings of the supervisory authorities. This would, however, be the same as the abolition of compensation for transport or residence for Members of the Saeima simply because some of them have used them in bad faith." Well, like a nail on your head, right? And this quote has been said by a businessman in 2016 - Krišjānis Feldmans. Why did I quote this, my fellow Members? There is a large part of the truth there, because from the very beginning the Microbusiness Tax Law lays down norms that oblige the State Revenue Service to also assess the economic nature of companies operating under this regime, and unfortunately because this function was not fully implemented at the outset, there were indeed a number of cases when we saw that the largest companies split into smaller ones... micro-enterprises, even state-owned companies, have used such an attempt to optimise taxes, thereby significantly undermining this very good corporate tax regime. But since then, of course, much has been done - both the regime is organised and the State Revenue Service is working more effectively, and, as I have tried to tell you today, most of the companies currently working in this regime are really in line with the nature of the regime (the relatively small turnovers, I must also say, largely really lifestyle companies, for which such a regime is the most appropriate). However, in order to avoid any other possible tax optimisations, such as the creation of a number of micro-enterprises in the same sector, thus reducing turnover, optimising tax payments, it is proposed that this rule, which states that a micro-enterprises taxable person may not act as an employee, nor may he be an official or owner, or a real beneficiary of a commercial company operating in the same or a similar field of activity. I call for my proposal to be supported. Even regardless of all the other concepts, this is one perhaps an extra safety valve.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U200	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U201	Dear colleagues, I think that voting on this proposal in particular will be the greatest possible proof that the proposals submitted by the government and also by the coalition opposition are not, in substance, valued. And again. The government, as recognised by the Ministry of Finance itself, fully copied its approach from Estonia. Of course, with the exception of their single economic account and some other things. This anti-avoidance rule is exactly the same... how it works also in Estonian legislation. Second. The government itself, the Ministry of Finance itself has been talking for years about the use of this micro-enterprises regime for tax optimisation. This is even the case without any evidence, as I said, written in an annotation. And there's an anti-avoidance rule. Logical question, colleagues: why then did the government not support the anti-avoidance rule if it itself talked about tax evasion all the time? Why did the government not support exactly the same anti-avoidance rate that exists in Estonia, if the government itself has acknowledged that it has copied its approach from Estonia? As we learned, colleagues, within the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the government spent 30 seconds on average on examining one opposition's proposal. Within 30 seconds, colleagues, the government examined, assessed, debated and rejected every proposal from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U202	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U203	I would like to correct Mr Vjačeslav Dombrovskis - I think it would be very much said for 30 seconds how much time the government has devoted to studying each proposal. But when we talk about this proposal, of course, these examples and... I think that, at the moment, we are living more on those tax optimists who optimise taxation through the micro-enterprises tax regime and, unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance also lives in these myths, which also states in this way that there is still a problem. This problem really existed, and I have already mentioned here the area of construction, where these types of business chains were deliberately built. We have also seen a taxi business (also in the media) how these taxes are optimised... in this, legal, manner. And, of course, the example that Lattelecom's master, who walks into a stable, also turns out to be not a master of Lattelecom - he is a micro-entrepreneur. Well, there have been examples of this, too, and I say this in the form of the past. If there were quite a lot of them in the past, then now there are some exceptions. Of course, the government with these... with such an approach to point it out as the main problem and shoot with a gun through the sparrows is very simple. Of course, no sparrow will be left over there, but it will be quite difficult for the economy and small business as such. Therefore, the opposition has also, in a way, proposed this proposal, which... I no longer see the technical specialists who are going and telling about the editorial features of this proposal. This proposal is really in place and it is right if we really want to fight for one person not to set up six micro-enterprises and differently... Even though this is already difficult to do today. And there are very, very few such cases. But in this case, we are offering, if this is the problem - please, this is the solution. And this proposed solution will allow Jelgava to continue to eat bread and operate in the micro-entrepreneur regime, compete with large bread entrepreneurs with foreign capital so that local traditions can be maintained in some way, so that small business can be maintained. I think that is the right direction to go. This proposal, which has been tabled from the opposition, excludes some form of possible fraud. This makes it very clear that a taxpayer of micro-enterprises cannot act as an employee, an official, a property holder or a real beneficiary in a commercial company operating in the same or similar field of activity. I think that this is a very clear statement of these restrictions, and the vast majority of those working in this regime would not be subject to this. I therefore call, colleagues, on us to stop living in myths for those bad little entrepreneurs. Maybe let's open our eyes, let's see, maybe those big businessmen who will now be relieved of this tax burden... Perhaps it is necessary to look at whether we really have a proper control over how the taxes are optimised precisely by these big businessmen, where one businessman can optimise as much as all the small businessmen together are unable to cause budgetary damage within a year. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U204	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U205	Colleagues! Mr. Dombrovskis, too. I think that the government has not supported this proposal because fair competition and social security, as a draft law, are actually just a pretext... not really to secure these two things, but to eliminate the micro-enterprises tax regime, because we remember - one example - even by increasing the tax rate, the government, initially under the slogans, that we should take care of social security for those working under the micro-enterprises tax regime, proposed to reduce the part of the micro-enterprises tax rate that would be passed on to national social security contributions from 80% to 67. Well, I don't know, in the hope that someone won't notice, maybe. And another thing. Yes, fair competition is being talked about, but, for example, this proposal, like all the others, with absolutely no discussion, perhaps without even being read with confidence in the preparations prepared by the Ministry of Finance, was simply voted against in the draft decision. If social security and fair competition were really to be taken care of, then I think this is one proposal that should be supported by the government. But I hope that the Saeima will not be accompanied by a complete government and, at least, such painless, sensible proposals will be able to be supported. I therefore also call for this proposal to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U206	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U207	Dear colleagues, The Saeima will, of course, support the government's proposal by means of a majority vote, but several things need to be discussed. The first is that the optimisation of tax payments is a phenomenon that exists in all countries of the world. It is enough to remember an example in the media of how one famous American businessman has paid about a hundred or a hundred dollars with his billions. Maybe each other knows the businessman's name, it's Donald Trump. You can punish it and appreciate it, but attempts to use any loopholes of the law - it belongs to people, and it is a normal phenomenon, perhaps not under abnormal circumstances. That's the point one. Two points. This is not just about restrictive factors. This is about setting criteria. If we are talking about micro-enterprises as a separate business sector or a sphere or an area of activity, call it what you want or structure, naturally - the clearer those criteria are, the easier it is to avoid optimism and other unemployment. In this case, it's really the same... a similar criterion as, say, the volume of turnover, the number of employees and so on, and so on. The clearer these criteria are, the easier it is to organize the work, the easier it is to monitor this work, and there is less possibility of administration in this case, too much administration. That is why this proposal must undoubtedly be supported, even though I have started... I have no doubt that the voting machine will work in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U208	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U209	Colleagues! In order to have a context, however, I would like to return to the far away on 14 December 2016. ‘ Delfos” Krišjānis Feldmans publishes the article “Microbusiness Tax – the unintentional step towards efficiency”. I would like to quote in the context of what Mr Feldman said today in order to be able to compare and analyse. Thus, I quote: “The principle of paretosis implies that, as a rule, 20 percent of the causes cause 80 percent of them. The same is true in the context of tax revenues. It is normal that 20 per cent of the taxpayer pays 80 per cent of the tax revenue. It seems that in Latvia the proportion could be even higher - 10... and 90 percent. In view of this proportion, on the other hand, on the tax administration side, the principle of cost-effectiveness, which is not currently being done, should be respected. It has also led Latvia to almost three times as many employees as in Estonia in the State Revenue Service. But it cannot only be the SRS, because although it has a strong lobby influence on decisions made by the decision-making authority, SRS is and remains the executive body that does not adopt laws. Then, seven years ago, when the economic crisis was the deepest one, the government was in front of the fact that the state budget could not be fulfilled. Unemployment grew rapidly, the people were not only in fact insolvent, and tax revenues in the budget dropped sharply, but people also demanded and exploited the opportunities offered by social assistance, mainly in the form of unemployment benefits. Therefore, the best possible solution to the crisis, which even ideological opponents in the Saeima could agree on, was the system of micro-enterprises tax. With a relatively low rate of interest tax, many started making their own money, becoming their own employers." And, as Mrs Reizniece-Ozola also quotes, Mr Feldman writes in this article: ‘To blame honest micro-entities for using this tax for tax optimisation schemes is totally unfounded, because monitoring compliance with tax laws is not their function. On the other hand, it would be illogical to punish them for the failings of the supervisory authorities. This would, however, be the same as the abolition of compensation for transport or residence for Members of the Saeima simply because some of them have used them in bad faith." We know some of these things, don't we? Well, that's the spirit. Do you understand? The context in this whole case is that four years have passed, Mr Feldman is walking down at the Saeima troupe, then he was not a Member, now he is a Member. The facts are identical. So there has been a crisis at that time in the article, today is a crisis, the state budget is not being fulfilled, unemployment is growing, and at that time Mr Feldman says that the best solution is the introduction of a micro-enterprises tax. Over these four years, when he comes to power, Mr Feldman has radically changed his mind, even though the actual situation in the country has not changed. No facts have changed at all... and is also not named from the parliamentary tribunal, which facts have changed. If there were such arguments, based on evidence, Mr Feldman - based on evidence! - Mr Feldman, then we could discuss it, but the evidence from the parliamentary troupe today has not come from a coalition of power. And so there is reason to believe that the actual destruction of the micro-enterprises tax regime, at this point in time without offering anything, has led to a situation where the less prosperous part of society will again suffer, the weakest part of the entrepreneurs who have just started their business, who have no working capital or who have not yet been able to attract enough investment, and who are essentially solely concerned with ensuring their family's own consumption to survive. That is why I am calling on Mr Feldman to explain... evidence-based arguments that have then changed so significantly as tax data, as other statistics show these substantial changes. Why is your opinion today, Mr Feldman, absolutely the opposite of when you were not in power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U210	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U211	Colleagues! However, I would like to oppose both Mr Dolgopolova's fact that the voting machine will work and all those who believe that this proposal will not be voted on. I very much hope, however, that the vote on this proposal will be positive. And I would call on my fellow Members to stop a little bit from fearing this budget of the biggest disaster, which is a deficiency of 3.9 per cent. And the 3.9 percent deficit - it is the greatest disaster precisely because we have to look at this type of bill and fight today for a micro-business tax regime all day long. It is precisely this 3.9 percent deficit that is why all members of the coalition will fear three and shudder and are not prepared to listen to the substance and vote on a proposal that could potentially change something in this number of "3.9". Everything else is nuance, and we are now in a situation where we are third in the European Union from above with the lowest budget deficit, even though all the other countries of the European Union are investing in their economies. We were an absolute leader in the benefits of late retirement from the amount of unpaid benefits for entrepreneurs and people who would need it. And in this case, too, we will be, I think, in the footsteps of the 'leader', when we will spoil a well-functioning system and be able to rejoice at the fact that we have the smallest deficit and the half-deficit economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U212	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U213	I am very honoured by the fact that my economics are quoted, including those from 2016, which have obviously not been lost today. And I have to say that over time, if we are still talking about the situation in 2016, the micro-enterprises tax regime was very different than it turned over time... For example, as was the case in 2018. Both this regime was limited and the rate was raised, it was even during the previous parliamentary term, and in fact it created significant reflections for many micro-entrepreneurs, and to a large extent they found other methods, as well as other forms of business, as it was even more advantageous to continue their business, including the ordinary regime SIA. And that's why the situations, for example, are talking about wage levels for one employee, who in the original regulation was 720 euros, if someone remembers 500 lats, and what is 720 euros maybe now... those things are not comparable - 10 years ago and now. Even these absolute values, as they were. And so... Of course, time is ahead, and solutions are also found more beneficial. And technology also helps to find solutions. For example, the same single economic activity account at that time in 2009 - I doubt that I could fantasize in Latvia about some single economic activity accounts and similar matters. Now... Over 10 years, technology and all other infrastructure have evolved, including in public administration, crucially, which also provides new opportunities to promote more effective tax regulation. But when I talk about the proposal, I... This proposal too, it must be said, is perhaps strange, because if the current version supported by the Commission provides that the person will therefore be able to carry out... Thus, only one form of economic activity will be allowed to be a taxpayer of micro-enterprises (it is not, by the way, different from the previous rules in particular, since only one of the companies, for example, the taxable person of micro-enterprises, could, in the past, be a taxable person of micro-enterprises), whereas this proposal states that the taxable person of micro-enterprises cannot be an employee, an official in any other similar company, but in fact he can be a taxable person of micro-enterprises in another form of business. In that case, that's... Well, I wouldn't say that this would be a move towards avoiding schemating. Then I have to say that the regulation supported by the Commission, where there are obviously people who have improved it for years... I also see that the current version of the draft law was modified on 12 December 2016, and this same article was also amended... Well, I think they're... its cases have been drowned over time, and they are not free of charge. And, to be honest, I have not heard that the taxpayers of micro-enterprises are currently very protesting on that point. They may object to other things. So I am calling for this proposal not to be supported and perhaps to continue to see my articles about the economy, which have not been lost today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U214	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U215	Thank you. I will not argue or discuss with the classics of economic literature, but I am ready to reconcile with Mr. Valaiņa's respectable on one of the units of excise goods... the result will be as I said, but in any case I say once again that this is one of the criteria - one of the criteria! - as set out in the proposal laying down the principles governing the functioning of micro-enterprises. This proposal is therefore a) to be supported and b) to be welcomed as it makes action clearer, clearer and more transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U216	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U217	Dear colleagues, If we also look at what is written in the annotation at this bill, then it is clear and clear that it is gradually destroyed... Well, in my words it will be said... There's a different... Therefore, this regime should be phased out. And I have to say that probably we are now... We are dealing with two different Krisjan Feldmans because that Krišjānis Feldman, who is speaking to us today from the screen of the debate, is quite different from Krišjānis Feldmans than, for example, what was on 8 July, who said that the tax on micro-enterprises is being destroyed. He said: “What is the secretly humiliated plan of the old Unity and their adopted politicians for the famous tax reform? Very simple! Abolish non-standard tax regimes by introducing minimum social contributions, raise taxes by reducing the importance of the non-eligible minimum, including for dependants, by shifting the tax burden from the IIN to the GSAOI without taking any step towards reducing inequalities!" And what else is important is what he says: “And clearly, the tax system must be fair! This element of fairness and economic heating, which stimulates internal consumption, is an insurmountable minimum! There is a need to raise salaries for doctors, teachers and everyone else, but to respect all taxpayers." And the most important thing is: “If the current Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and other tax collectors, who have a political jealousy behind their minds, are unable to do so, we can offer our competences!” Colleagues! What we have heard was Krišjānis Feldman's opinion - a openly dissatisfied opinion - on 8 July, which he expressed to his readers on social networks, thus making it clear that Krišjānis Feldman, together with his colleagues, struggles tirelessly for maintaining the possibilities for these entrepreneurs to continue working and to avoid "the secretly humiliated plan of old Unity and their adopted politicians". But what do we see now? Unfortunately, with such a little squeezing, but Mr Feldman still supports and votes like the old United Nations politicians and their adopted friends. We have two Krišjāņi Feldmans, probably. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U218	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U219	Colleagues! I agree with Julia Stepanenko that we really have two if not four Krisjan Feldmans... according to the need, speak exactly the opposite of what is actually done on any question. The problem is... Krišjānis Feldmans says that the taxpayers of micro-enterprises have moved into other, best tax regimes. He thought it obviously, I can't say it, but there is no better tax regime in Latvia - they are just outside Latvia, so... I mean, people from Latvia have left. And in fact, the reason people leave Latvia is precisely Krišjānis Feldman's action, speaking one thing, but doing the opposite completely. Here too. When it comes to protecting business as if, but in principle, doing completely the opposite and hoping that the less educated and uninformed voter will catch up and vote on it in the same way as... Well, we all know about the conservative party... I think we don't need to get out there. In the context of this proposal, we have not heard any evidence-based arguments. No one! There was only demagogy, populism from Mr. Feldman. There was no statistical evidence to support what Mr Feldman said. None of this happened! And it is not a probative policy: it is actually a probative policy of the champions of lies, which Mr Feldman has so much liked in the past, and I call on him, however, to stick to the probative policy, because he is a model for all of us so that we can praise and take an example of how we need to demonstrate every proposal correctly statistically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U220	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U221	The Commission did not support the 10th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U222	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Reizniece-Ozola! Please, let's vote! For - 33, for - 56, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U223	11. is a proposal from the Members' Group - Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmana. This means maintaining a limited liability company's possibility to work under the micro-enterprises tax regime. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U224	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U225	Yes, thank you, Mr. Cielen. Indeed, this proposal maintains the possibility for a single-holder limited liability company to benefit from the micro-enterprises tax regime. And I ask those Members who support this concept to also vote in favour of this proposal, because otherwise it really happens that we are just a little bit at the moment for big entrepreneurs, but reducing the tax burden. They are also, in a way, protected from high risks, while we both try to impose additional significant increases in taxes on small businesses and increase their risk of doing business. In fact, as we have said before, this is how we motivate people to enter the insolvency proceedings of a natural person. I call on you to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U226	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U227	Colleagues! A small derogation. On this proposal, I cannot touch on the vote on the previous proposal. I am really disappointed, and perhaps this remote regime has, in some way, saved me from losing some excise goods, because Mr Dolgopolov is too far off me. But the substance of this proposal is to protect entrepreneurs. Just as Dana Reizniece–Ozola said, to create a sense of security for them. If we work in SIA mode, then there are clear rules and also addressing company owners. This is a peculiar process, and if the businessman worked in good faith, the conversion of the businessman's private property is close to impossible. However, in this case, if we force all the entrepreneurs to operate in such a regime, we do not allow them to create a... However, the substance of this proposal is to retain this possibility. We are simply restricting the business of these people. Question: "Why is such a restriction necessary?" Are there really so many bad cases where someone has abused this regime in bad faith? I think, if there are cases like this, then they will probably not be interested in what mode they are working for. They will be transferred to SIA, will be transferred to the grey economy, and there are already other institutions to work with this type of entrepreneurs. But this is like a safety cushion for every businessman, potential businessman or existing businessman. One of the... If we are not talking about rates in this case, we are talking about the forms of business that I would call for support. In this way, we will more support... And even if the rate is increased, there will be social security if suddenly this businessman gets all the security from the creditors... in this case will be substantially reduced... and really anyone who will at some point imagine the possibility of starting their own business. It will be a serious question whether he will be ready to operate in the already large SIA regime with all the administrative progress that comes with it. If he is not ready for this, of course, he can automatically look for other alternative options. At the beginning of the day, we heard about start-ups. Well, most likely if that businessman is... I don't know, I mentioned an example here today: to drop spoons. If he has chosen to burn spoons, sell them at fairs and this business form, then choosing that he can be turned against and potentially threatened with insolvency... in this private insolvency regime, in case of business failure... This, in my opinion, is a good reason for the businessman not to go on such a path. I therefore call on you, my fellow Members, to support this proposal. The fiscal impact on this is not at all, and it would be very good if any of the promoters of the bill, perhaps Mr Cielen, could tell a little more what happened in the Commission then, what was the debate, or outline what was then those, or... and how bad the bad things have happened when someone has used this standard in bad faith. Colleagues, I am calling for some vision to be given on this issue and, at least on behalf of the Commission, for a more general account. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U228	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U229	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that the Commission did not support this, the 11th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U230	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U231	Proposal 12 was received from a group of Members - Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Koite, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskis and Bergmanis. The third paragraph of Article 2 of the draft law is worded as follows: ‘The micro-enterprises which have opted to pay the micro-enterprises tax cannot, at the same time, pay personal income tax or a patent fee for income from economic activities.’ The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U232	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U233	Colleagues! Thank you to the rapporteur. We can really learn to read. A much greater value would be if you tried to explain and give some arguments to one or the other decision of the Commission. But for this, colleagues. This proposal and overall amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law are related to amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act, which provides for the elimination of patent fees, leaving only reduced patent fees. This means using this tax regime for a limited group of companies, such as pensioners... Next year it is planned to allow the patent fee regime to work, those who are already registered will no longer be able to start new ones, and to a large extent, colleagues, this will lead to the situation that the people who are currently using this regime will go into the shadow economy. Why do I say that? Of 3826 patent fee payers, a large part or approximately 29 per cent, according to state revenue service data, are hairdressers, 11.6 per cent - naughters, 8.1 per cent - photographers, and other groups of professions are smaller. But these are basically people who provide their services to private individuals. If they are forced to switch to a more complex, more expensive tax regime in such a short time, at the moment of the crisis, then unfortunately, it will be a logical choice not to try to register as an economic operator or look elsewhere for a job (it will also be difficult to do it during the crisis), but simply go into the shadow economy and not show your economic activity by receiving cash payments from customers. This was pointed out by the State Revenue Service in its analysis of the impact of changing the tax regime for this group of taxpayers, noting in particular that indeed those groups that do not need special advertising for their services, which have their customers, range of their customers... babysitter, hairdresser, it's gonna be... It will be a natural choice. Colleagues, Latvians have such a saying “Seven times the size and then just cut off”. This is one concrete example when it looks like the government will first cut and then think and reflect seven times why it did, because it will be much more difficult to bring these people back to the legal economy than it is now, allowing them to work legally, paying a tax of EUR 50 or EUR 100 in the form of a patent fee, which is not a small money: EUR 100 if they pay a monthly hairdresser. And a great deal still needs to be earned to be a low turnover tax rate. I call for this proposal to be supported, because it really provides for a editorial clarification, but in fact it is a reference to changes in personal income tax where we call for the patent fee regime to be maintained.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U234	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U235	Yeah, I would. Colleagues, if you have assumed responsibility for the progress of this budget in the Saeima and have also assumed to report on these draft laws, what the opposition has repeatedly said, including my colleague Dana, is perfectly expressing the meaning and nature of the proposal... It has already been reported on none of the proposals that there has been no debate in the Commission on these proposals and... or... I would therefore be asked to dispel the concerns that these proposals have been rejected without debate... I don't want to believe that Martin Bondar's commission doesn't have a debate... and to explain a little more to the rapporteur of the committee responsible, which are the reasons why one or the other proposal is not rejected. The patent fee payers are... Now they're thousands, as... more than three thousand, as my colleague Dana has already mentioned. In this case, I would call for this proposal to be supported, because the transition is already the case in the limited circumstances which are... Many patent fee payers are also so-called... Those who are in a very bad situation right now... And the manicure... There was a protest campaign at the Saeima this week. You noticed or didn't notice, but it was. And one is to support this sector through support mechanisms, the other is to support it through regulation of tax policy. In this case, this is the right place to include such regulation, and it is... because in the personal income tax, this waiver of patent fees takes place. In my opinion, it is a very logical proposal; it can also be... If it is clear at the moment that there is really a very great victory on the part of the government, how to deal with special tax regimes, I would call on the Saeima to listen to it, however, and put a plug in this way of winning the government. These talks on current accounts, that all of this will come to us in two years' time, I think it will end at the very moment the Saeima votes on this year's budget. Then there will be something to return, I would like to say, impossible. Like us... I'd put likes like we... Colleagues to better understand what I'm talking about... It's... Administrative territorial reform, in which additional changes were adopted and promised, a great deal of additional changes, I think there are no additional changes between them, but they were promised - both the administrative regions and the zero level municipalities and all the other special regulations. I won't list them, it won't be the right place. But it's clear that... Well, I doubt, I doubt very much that this Saeima will vote on something like that at all, maybe it will talk like it will be on the single account, but I doubt very much that something will be going through daylight. If we do not defend special tax regimes in any way at this point, the adoption of this draft law will mean abolishing the tax on micro-enterprises as such. Then it could have been easier to submit the law... the law of termination and not confuse people with the mind that we have some kind of micro-taxpayers' regime. We call, in this proposal, for attention to be paid to patent fees, but for them to be maintained. It is a time of crisis. Once the economy starts to recover, the living conditions of these people will not improve, they are likely to work in the shadow economy, because it will be impossible for them to operate in a general regime, or very, very difficult and... but to return to this regulation by seeing the budget deficit as it is today... I have great, great doubts that there will be some kind of debate at all, ideas at all that something should be returned. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U236	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U237	The Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance are basically destroying the micro-enterprises tax regime and the self-employed tax regime without offering anything. ‘ What we are offering is this indispensable minimum of EUR 500. This is essential for people to be able to migrate from these alternative tax regimes to the standard regime,” said the young conservative politician Gatis Eglitis. This view also sounded in the summer... in the middle of the summer. Then, as we know, the people of Latvia's largest parties were very active in the Riga elections, and it is likely that this very clear and truly bold opinion was put to use to increase recognition, popularity for the election of certain conservative politicians in the Riga Council. No way I can't treat it. I would also like to understand whether this silence on the conservative side on this very painful topic, which was very painful for them in the summer when we were talking about a tax of EUR 500... this €500 exemption... whether it could not be that this silence, which is already clear, is due to the fact that we have recently supported amendments to the Education Act on Remote Learning. It may be that it is a coincidence, it may be that no, but something was definitely exchanged against this silence. If we are talking about a patent fee, then, yes, indeed, as my colleague Mr. Valaiņš said, they... Now, in principle, it was probably only women who came to the Saeima - representatives of the beauty industry. And they really have an extra task right now that they have been denied work. The first challenge now is to try to survive without means, and the second challenge for these women, who, as we know, are many children's mothers, single mothers, who very often choose to work in such a, say, industry... They have an additional task, and now in December, they need to figure out how to re-register in order to keep this regime for another year, because in 2023 at all, the hell will start. In principle, its mothers and women are now preparing to work. So they need to find not only a chance to survive at the moment, but also an accountant to help prepare this transition. The accountant's services, of course, also cost money. Perhaps you could have some benefit, however, at last start paying for those people who are now denied work and those who are denied work and who have more... to meet all obligations towards a country that prevents them from working and earning income... In order to meet these obligations towards the state, they must go further now and do something more and re-register. Perhaps, however, you will at least pay some benefit to the accounting officer or how. You can imagine how people who have been denied work are now feeling and, secondly, how they can continue to work next year - when they will finally be allowed to do so. Thank you, colleagues, I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U238	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U239	Colleagues, I would like to keep on the subject that Mrs Stepanenko has already begun, because there is indeed a fitness camp for year-end accountants, where the main coach in the role of a government at a very high speed, I must say, unthinkable tax changes, where they themselves are trying to understand what the administration will be, what the rates will be, how they will be at the end of their offers. I must also mention practical examples because, at the moment, it is very difficult and difficult... and, unfortunately, there is a great deal of uncertainty about what will happen in 2022, in 2023, in the self-employed's tax regime, then what part of those working in this regime is trying to do is to register as a patent fee payer this year by the end of December, because then they realise that there will be some stability for at least one year. But, colleagues, the next step, probably, will be for those people who are currently re-registered from the self-employed regime to the pay-as-you-go regime, a step in the shadow economy, when you will also break the pay-as-you-go regime. It is unlikely that those people who are already at this increase from five to 10 per cent in the minimum social contribution rate will then be happy to return to self-employed, when you will increase your social contributions to more than 30 per cent. It must be understood that everything is linked to the economy. If you pull one diver, you have to try to predict how it will affect the whole system, such as the effects of a butterflies.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U240	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U241	Colleagues! I too... I was moved to reflect on what Mrs Stepanenko said here, to reflect on the fact that this suspicious silence has been replaced by something. It would be interesting to hear these special tax regimes closing down, which could be even more important for political parties than that. And in this case the patent fee payers. Whether it is political belief or political agreement. One thing is clear. It is a state of 3.9 per cent deficit, which is a completely false state of affairs in this period of time, which leads to such difficult decisions and, in a way, very wrong decisions in this... exactly in this period. I would, however, call on colleagues to say what is then what the political parties have gained. Perhaps the UKP has obtained some changes to the Education Act, how many gambling machines have gained for Development/About!Is that so? How many... What is the benefit of the New Unity? Maybe it's a belief that it's the right direction? What benefits does the National Association have? It is true that we do not hear the slightest arguments about why it should be done and why it is right. Mr Feldman is also a little quiet at this moment when we are talking about very specific... the form of business. Perhaps you have an answer to all these entrepreneurs, more than three thousand, how do you give them your daily money in the future?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U242	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U243	On the one hand, it is, of course, sad that the ruling coalition is currently extending this act of actual self-destruction, eliminating the micro-enterprises tax regime and forcing people who are already without income to pay, including patent payments. For example, even if a person has worked there for five, 10 days or no matter... or have not received any income, especially in times of crisis, in a different way than such a Harakiri I cannot call myself. This is, of course, very good from the point of view of the opposition: the more the ruling coalition will do this, because, of course, we will be very fast approaching the end of the ruling coalition. But from the point of view of people's interests, from the perspective of the protection of the interests of Latvian citizens, it is clear that from next year all the many thousands operating under the micro-enterprises tax regime will experience very unpleasant moments, very, very unpleasant moments. And then the question is why the ruling coalition has chosen this group? Is it a purely socially calculated fact that this group has nothing to do with the results of the elections there or... Forget it. That is why I want to call all of society to remember. At the moment we come to the next elections, remember all these decisions that have been in place this year. Do not forget everything that is usually forgotten. And I think the proposal is very logical at a time when there is a crisis in the country. The economic crisis too. It is a clear, clear economic crisis, and it affects the private sector most, namely those who actually produce taxes, from which the entire public sector, from which we are supplied, is served. This tax-producing sector is most vulnerable. And even more, the least protected are those who produce taxes to feed themselves. Not to feed others, but to feed yourself to survive. And it's very big absurd. If we look at other parts of the world... Let us take the example of the United States. There is no European Union, but let us take it anyway. The United States (and this is no secret) paid compensation for the crisis to all its citizens, including those living in Latvia, and, most probably, Krišjānis Kariņš. Don't ask what they're doing. Just took and paid thousands of dollars. Their constituents, Latvian citizens with American citizenship, are writing to Members, including to me that the American state simply paid the same price for nothing, just because there is a crisis. We read the press - Germany, Switzerland, no matter, Denmark... I'm told by businessmen who have opened up companies in Germany, small micro-enterprises. Everyone at this moment receives a huge amount of benefits, aid, huge support from the State. It is the smallest in Latvia, and it is very sad. But it can only change because we have to endure this moment of truth. If there weren't such a moment of truth, then it might probably be enough to keep umbrellas for more subtle officials, but now the crisis is as bright as once, how good managers in the country are at power and how good these managers are in management in order to raise the welfare of Latvia's people rather than fall. So far, it seems that prosperity is falling rapidly for large, large, tens, tens, and perhaps even hundreds, thousands of people. And therefore, dear society, dear viewers, remember these votes. They are not just political votes; they are votes on aid to people at the most difficult times. That is very special. I'd like to call... I really must say thank you that Mr Feldman has come to the debate - for now the only... has the courage to speak on behalf of the coalition, at least about it to him. That's not true.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U244	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U245	Everything's bad in the country. Such feelings take place by listening to previous speakers. But under the parliamentary roll of order, it would be necessary to talk about the specific proposal. And the specific proposal, although it is very long, provides for the whole point to be put to a different wording, in fact only one word,'reduced', is deleted. I would have expected legal arguments from the lawyers who debated this proposal about the need to remove one word from the legislative text supported by the Commission, because otherwise it might not be clear why this proposal should or should not be supported at all. Although people have already debated at least six times before this proposal, unfortunately some legal arguments about why one particular word should be removed from its wording could not be heard. And in this case, there's nothing else left purely logical to say that its arguments were not... and the proposal was rejected. Another thing that must be said is that I should not be the one who says whether or not this proposal should be supported. I would have expected the responsible political officials of the Ministry of Finance to come... The Minister of Finance may, by the way, take part in the sitting of the Saeima and speak for each proposal long and wide; the Prime Minister may also defend, speak in the sitting of the Saeima. The Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance may also speak and state. And, of course, I'm very surprised why he's his salary, which maybe now... Let us say that I would not want to criticise it too much as absolutely pointless, because it is already the work of the opposition - to say that everything is bad in the country and everything is always bad for everyone. So why don't they come and tell it right? Among other things, I must also praise... In the conservative wing, there have been politicians who have intervened... not only the new Conservatives, but also from another party... for people who are self-employed, including craftsmen and other professions, because with great struggles - with great struggles! - only reached the so-called 10 per cent rate that would have to be paid to the self-employed up to the minimum wage, where the income is relatively lower. Now that fight was actually... Well, as they say: if someone is playing poker, then going to the whole bank from all possible sides. But this is the question that we managed to fight. We will probably see this in another draft law. But it was precisely on the particular proposal that I did not hear why that one word should be so important and deleted. In that sense, I... lawyers should already be able to argue, especially now... who also, you know, has represented everything in the courts if that... the extent to which its legal consistency is removed from it or from another word. And viewers and society could also be very important. Otherwise, it seems that this proposal is only presented in order to have a proposal in the table. But I say nothing, I say nothing, it is Members' rights. In any case, I have not heard the argument at the moment, perhaps we will hear it again. Thank you in advance. I call for this proposal not to be supported at the moment. Just not to confuse everything as they say... apples or oranges... and in order not to disrupt the entire law, make no use at all, because it is important that in any case next year all micro-enterprises do not end and continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U246	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U247	Madam President, Dear colleagues, It seems that discussions about the micro-business tax law are really very valuable. Now I'm going to reflect apparently on the UK intellectual flagman... to what Mr Feldman said about a number of proposals, but especially about the latter. I am very pleased that you are taking part in the discussions, because there have actually been two things in the meantime, and I also understand why you are talking so long. The first thing, you are talking so long about all the proposals, precisely because in the meantime it has been possible to ask your minister for a resignation. And secondly, you made a guess...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U248	Mrs Papules, on the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U249	... At the beginning of this day, about...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U250	Mrs Papules, please, for the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U251	... on one of the proposals you made, and you cannot decide at this time - to join in under or in New Unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U252	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U253	Mr Feldman, I understand that you are calling on your coalition colleagues to also help you in this debate. But the problem is that the most influential article in the press... Thus, in fact, the government is led by Mr Bordan, and that is probably the reason. Everyone's waiting for something...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U254	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U255	Colleagues, Mr Feldman has just said that he needs further clarification of this proposal. The submitted proposal retains the patent fee, contrary to what this draft law, which was brought to the Saeima, provides. The fact that Mr Feldman, without understanding the proposal, calls for the proposal to be rejected immediately does not indicate good practice in the work of the legislators. If Mr Feldman has now received this clarification, then perhaps Mr Feldman can also call on his colleagues to vote in favour of this proposal. And perhaps Mr Feldman can once again suspect that the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) should be broadcast live on the Internet so that all Members, including those who are not members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax), can hear detailed explanations and equally undetailed rejections of these explanations from colleagues in the coalition. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U256	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U257	12. proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U258	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! - 29, against - 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U259	Proposal No 13 was also received from a group of Members - Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Koite, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskis and Bergmanis. The proposal provides for the exclusion of the fourth paragraph of Article 2 of the draft law. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U260	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U261	Now, colleagues, on the substance. At the moment, the draft law proposed by the government to the Members imposes significant restrictions on the owners of micro-enterprises. In particular, this Article provides that the owner may not at the same time be a person's income tax payer from an economic activity, including the payment of personal income tax on the income of his individual enterprise or farmer or fisherman's farm. Colleagues! We have just discussed the anti-avoidance norm, which was very opposed. And now, your vote has shown that you have little interest in preventing cases where the taxpayer of micro-enterprises is perhaps actually a larger company and divides his economic activity into several micro-enterprises, thereby circumventing the corresponding taxation. Here quite clearly you say that if you have already chosen a micro-tax regime, then you can no longer do anything else in your life. For me, for example, as well as the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission in discussions, where it happened in the same way... consideration of this proposal to an extent... exclude the fourth paragraph of Article 2 of the draft law without any consistent argument from the Ministry of Finance, from the Ministry of Agriculture, from the Ministry of Economics, from the colleagues of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) why such a restriction would be necessary. Because we have also mentioned that there are, for example, cases where one farmer who is a person's income tax payer, given that agriculture as a whole is a seasonal activity, he may have a micro-organism from agriculture during or in parallel with his own time, for example, when he is engaged in shoe repairs. Therefore, it is not clear why such an economic activity should be excluded. But that is what the government is restricting - without any logic, simply with the aim of restricting micro-enterprises and making this tax regime as attractive as possible. I call for this proposal to be supported by excluding such a disproportionate restriction of activity.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U262	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U263	Colleagues! This proposal speaks directly of... affect the fishermen directly. And let's talk about fishermen. Microbusiness mode... Imagine an entrepreneur working under the micro-enterprises tax regime, who also has farmers... fishing... income from fishing. How many fishing operators in Latvia have left us, which is still doing this industry? I think we can only be proud that we still have fishermen who are still in the second, third generation and even in the past. And despite everything that has found the fishing sector in Latvia as such, there are still really respected people who do it. This proposal concerns them in particular. So, the highly honored, factually and otherwise wisely based my colleagues, with whom did you then sound this particular rule of law? If we look at professional organisations, how many of us have business representatives... There is the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, a very respected organisation, all the respect, representatives of large companies, as well as the state capital company and social partner... Governments and... Of course, they are definitely talking about macro-economics, but I deeply doubt whether they really are going into such small things. Maybe I'm wrong, too, and they're gonna go in. Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Of them, we have heard a very clear opinion this week. More - Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry... I heard radio advertising where they asked the Latvian people the question whether political parties had said before the elections that they would come with such amendments. Colleagues who today are actively voting against all previous proposals, I call on you to remember! It's not so long - two years ago - pre-election time. What were the documents signed by the leaders of your own party with these organisations that were mentioned in them? All due respect for the few who had such a position before the elections. And that's... I could count some two, maybe two... Indeed, perhaps, who are currently in the government, and they had such a position, but all the others had a completely different position with regard to the special forms of taxation. In this case, I invite everyone while listening to this debate, if possible, check out the Facebook account of the Latvian Farmers' Union. There is a association of fishermen, and there a representative of the association of fishermen has made very clear what he thinks about all this. Take time, look. In several generations already a fisherman... And listen and look at at least virtualally in the face of the person to whom this particular restriction will apply. I would nevertheless call for this proposal to be supported. Colleagues! Let us not be so haughty, for yet this is a very, very narrow group. And if we look at this group, including those working in agriculture, I think it's completely wrong and... facts to support... This is not coherent with the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U264	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Registration of Members' presence. Registration has taken place. So the break is till 6 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U265	Dear colleagues, Let us continue the budget sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”. Debate on proposal 13. Member Sergey Dolgopolov applied for the debate. Mr Dolgopolov, do you want to debate? I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Proposal No 13... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U266	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U267	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U268	14. There is a Member's Slaughter proposal. Neither is the Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U269	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U270	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Pimenova's proposal. The Commission is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U271	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U272	Yeah. Hello... Good evening! President of the Bureau, to be highly respected. Dear Members, Honourable Members! I'm... two proposals have been made for this draft law. The proposals made by the other members of the opposition are... carried out a comprehensive audit of the draft government bill, each item literally as beads through fingers. In my opinion, however, the draft law undermines the roots of micro-business, and that is what the story is about. I am against the progressive limitation of the micro-enterprises tax regime, contrary to the task set out in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. The government sees the micro-tax regime as a gap in the tax system of the body through which the money received from the budget goes. I object: the possibility of circumventing tax payments can be sought and found in any tax regulation, but that does not mean that tax evasion must be fought through restrictions alone. Instead of reforming the micro-enterprises tax regime and encouraging fellow citizens to start business with reduced fiscal burdens and gradually grow into stable companies, the government is actually excluding them from the market. On the role of micro-enterprises in the maintenance and development of entrepreneurship, and in the circumstances caused by the pandemic, several considerations have already been made today and yesterday. I can't do it again. I also propose maintaining the possibility for a limited liability company to apply for the status of micro-enterprises taxable at the same time as maintaining the existing requirements for a possible excess of five employees of micro-enterprises and an estimated turnover of not more than EUR 40 000, and not making a micro-enterprises not to register as a value added tax payer and not to be subject to the threshold for registration of value added tax of micro-enterprises. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, micro-enterprises are trying to convince and deter the acquisition of the status of VAT, claiming that when they become registered VAT payers, micro-enterprises have more complex accounting requirements. But at the same time, the statement warns that only a registered VAT payer may provide services to taxable persons of other Member States of the European Union and receive them from persons of other Member States of the European Union. The micro-enterprises would therefore be deprived of such opportunities. That is a weak argument. I call for my proposal to be supported and for the limited liability society to be able to become a micro-organism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U273	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U274	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U275	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! 25, 55, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U276	16. is a proposal from the Group of Members (Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Dauge, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskis and Bergmanis). And the proposal provides that SIA should be allowed to use the micro-enterprises tax regime. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U277	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion tabled by Mr Reizniece-Ozola, Ms Valaiņa, Ms Dūklava, Mr Jalinska, Mr Kučinska and Mr Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 51, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U278	17. There is a Member's Scratch proposal. The proposal provides for the exclusion of the exclusion of micro-enterprises from paying VAT. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U279	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The Commissioner's Scratch proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 28, against - 55, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U280	18. is a proposal from the Group of Members (Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Dauge, Dūklavs, Jalinska, Kučinskis and Bergmanis). The proposal provides for maintaining existing rates for micro-entrepreneurs... companies. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U281	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U282	Colleagues, recently the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry carried out measurements of the business sentimental index, which shows how positive it looks to the development prospects of businessmen. And in the period between the end of September and the end of October, that index was - 41,7, and for comparison in 2009, it is the time of the previous major crisis... This was 47. You see that, at the moment, the confidence of entrepreneurs in the outlook is even worse than during the great crisis. And this, of course, is not the time to change the tax system by increasing substantially taxes, especially on small taxpayers. It is also the essence of this proposal: not to increase taxes, leave the current tax rates on micro-enterprises, i.e. turnover of up to 40 thousand euros per year - 15 per cent, while for a part of the turnover of more than 40 thousand euros per year, to maintain 20 per cent. For those who may not have yet fully noticed: now the government proposes to raise their rate to 25 per cent if the turnover does not exceed 25 per cent, and up to 40 per cent if the turnover exceeds 25 per cent - now with a significant increase in the tax rate. As I have already said, the largest annual turnover of micro-enterprises under the micro-enterprises tax regime does not actually exceed 15 thousand, but it also results in a significant increase in the tax burden, without offering anything to the contrary. If a genuine transaction account was yet to appear in the package, which would ensure easier administration, simpler accounting, then perhaps the rate would still be justified. Although it is not clear why we should increase the rate even more than is the case in a neighbouring Estonia. I would remind you that the 20 percent rate is applied to turnover of up to 25 thousand euros. I call on you, UK colleagues, to support this proposal as well. I understand what tactic you have chosen: to blame the Minister of New Unity and the Prime Minister in all things, but you are on the same boat. Of course, you can tell you all the time how great the fights are behind closed doors in Monday evenings in coalition meetings, but real men can win a result not only after the fights tear their hands off that nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U283	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U284	Dear colleagues, As regards the new tax offer of the coalition government's Ministry of Finance, it is worth noting the following. I repeat that the Ministry of Finance itself recognised that it was based solely on the Estonian model. I would remind you, colleagues, that the Estonian model says: 20 per cent of turnover, which is less than EUR 25 000, and 40 per cent of turnover, which exceeds EUR 25 000 per year. But now what we're offered... I'm going to ask you to think like this. Let us assume that you are a Minister for Finance or a Parliamentary Secretary, or who is responsible for this formulation of tax policy there. And your aim, you say: we want to do it, we follow the Estonian model. Ask yourself, colleagues: how would you copy this Estonian model? One to one? Or... would you perhaps try to make this regime in Latvia more favourable than in Estonia? Well, just to be better than in Estonia... or maybe even some Estonian micro-entrepreneurs would choose, for example, to register in Latvia rather than in Estonia. As we hear, many entrepreneurs from Latvia choose to register in Estonia, not in Latvia, or not. I think anyone's normal... I would even say a normal man, not just a politician, such a normal instinct would be... Well, if we share Estonia, then either we share one against one, i.e. if Estonia has 20 percent to 25 thousand euros, then we do the same either better or we start... All right, we have 19 percent of the first 25 thousand... either 19 percent of the first 26 thousand. I think it would be a normal instinct for every person who... which really is more important than neighbouring countries in their own country. But what does the Ministry of Finance do? This first offer is to take both a tax rate that is higher than in Estonia, that is, not 20 percent, but 25 percent, and also a lower threshold than in Estonia. That was the first option, if I remember correctly, to the Ministry of Finance. Not 25 thousand, but 20 thousand. And only after a coalition task force or who's there... meetings, well, the coalition decided: at least the threshold will be the same as in Estonia. Well, colleagues, what are these... Such an approach really shows? I think that only those who really believe that all the micro-entrepreneurs who are, if I am not mistaken, certainly more than 80 000 people can be such a mentality, are criminals who need to just screw more and deeper. Now what is it about policy making, colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U285	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U286	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! I would also like to address the Minister at this point, in particular the Minister of Finance, who, I must admit, had joined this parliamentary sitting one of the previous times, unfortunately now no longer exists. In my opinion, this law is one of the main proposals, if not the most important one, where the opposition is asking very clearly and calls on other Members of the Saeima to support the maintenance of existing rates. Now, colleagues, we call on you once again and again to reflect on the time at which we take this completely... I mean, really... the painful question. And this budget is not a simple budget, it can be agreed there. And in order to achieve the promises that both this Saeima had voted on in terms of medical fees, and also to fulfill the promises that teachers must, of course, seek resources. And resources are unfortunately not available in the state budget. But the income that we are now... The government has offered a source of income from these special tax regimes... I think it's definitely a completely fake place. And it is not for nothing that we are debating and trying, all day long, not only for the Members of the Saeima, but also for the public as much as possible that these amendments are not currently in the right place, at the right time. Often different forecasts, business surveys about him... their feelings about the business environment are currently very bad. And that's... In such circumstances, we need to think about how we are best supported. In the form of legislation on taxation, we are currently at a time of destruction. And these support just won't make any sense. Colleagues, listen to the fact that many entrepreneurs are starting their employees right now, especially in the catering sector, rather than including one of the idle benefits... apply, but quite simply send to the unemployed, because the blow they received against the State Revenue Service at the time they tried to come for the help of this state was very painful. Now... Now these workers are released, they're fired, they're going... becomes clients of the social budget. There are, of course, also good trends regarding the fact that there are quite many who have been able to reskill, and these indicators are not bad. But this winter and these... This winter is full of uncertainty, and this winter will be much more difficult than the previous one in various ways. Both public payments will have to be paid by people and public expenditure, so it will not be less. And at this time, we should, in my opinion, do everything possible so that there are as many people as possible who are able to take care of themselves, to produce some added value, maybe to export. And in this case, in this mode - like or dislike - there are now more than 80 thousand. Yes, maybe part of them will go into SIA mode, wear belts, somehow survive, but a large part, I think, will... a large part, I think, will come in front of very difficult choices, and that would be the worst thing that could happen. Colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal and to think why... I really watched the public media last night... On Latvian television there was Ivars Swedish documentary and... where exactly these protests were reflected. And if you... I really don't want something like that to happen. But let us remember these very aggressive protests and what the reasons for these protests were. And now, a large part of the society that has tried, you're heading in this direction.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U287	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U288	The Commission did not support the proposal 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-25-PT13-2149-U289	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported. Please enable the procedure section. Honourable Members! Members Ples, Steins, Dombrovskis, Švecova and Bondar are asking to announce a break at the Saeima sitting by 9 a.m. on 26 November this year. We must vote on this. Can we vote? We can vote. Please call me! We will vote for a break before 9 a.m. on November 23, this year's extraordinary remote sitting! Please, let's vote! ( The sound is broken.) ( Interruption)
