ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! On 19 November 2020, the Saeima launched its first remote emergency session. On the agenda - approval and termination of the parliamentary term. Notice on Jura Pouces 13. Reinstatement of the parliamentary mandate. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U2	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High honourable Members! The Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission declares that according to the Second paragraph of Article 5 of the Saeima’s Rules of Procedure and the application of Juris Pūce of 13 November 2020, the Saeima’s Member’s Mandate had been reinstated (A sound disorder). for the term of office of the Minister, is renewed. 13 The Saeima (Sound disorder) the powers of the Member. Consequently, 13. Membership of the Saeima shall cease to be Dace Bluķe, whose mandate was approved by the Saeima for the time being from the party association Development/Par! Members elected to the list of candidates in the Kurzeme electoral district shall perform their duties as ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U3	Thank you for your statement. We have heard the announcement. Thank you to Dace Bluke for his work 13. In the family! Colleagues, let's keep working. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 13 November 2020 No. 665 “Amendment to the Cabinet Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U4	Good morning, dear colleagues! In its meeting of 17 November this year, the Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption considered the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers' Decree No. 655 Promulgating an emergency. The amendment provides that, in the future, during holidays and holidays, there will be no possibility for farm shops to operate in centres with an area for trade of at least 10 thousand square metres or in separate locations where 10 participants are active. After hearing the reports of the institutions and experts, the Commission considered the amendments to be appropriate, proportionate, justified and necessary. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the proposed draft decision of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U5	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U6	Dear colleagues, This decision actually proves once again that the government is acting like a blind deer in a burning forest during this period of emergency - just run, somewhere falls, go on running... and so on. Because what the whole society expected from the amendments to this emergency order was not the current chaotic ban, which, as we can see, resulted in even greater crowds of people at those farm shops that were not closed as a result of this order... the public hoped to expect much more logical solutions to the damage that we are already seeing that has not yet been corrected. We are only hearing a variety of promises from ministers and politicians that somehow the situation with the same beauty salons, which we know are working very much... Especially... the single mother, who is trying to pull this situation off and cannot pull it out, and of course also the illogical bans that concern areas where all the epidemiological requirements have been met so far and where the threat was probably minimal. That's why I... I cannot support this amendment either. I would also call on my colleagues to speak and not to support this amendment because what we were looking for most is, of course, the solution to these illogical bans. It is necessary either to separate them in some way and correct them accordingly or to immediately take a decision on compensation, because, as we know, these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on compensation for economic operators, for whom activities have now been suspended, even though they were published in the Official Journal of Latvia, contain a reservation about the need for coordination of compensation with the European Commission. When this compensation comes to people who currently have no money to pay bills, no one knows how to feed their children. We asked Mr. Kariņš. We are waiting for the answer. Today, this response should have been - a response to when these compensations will be paid and what the procedure is - but instead we expect another illogical ban and another one, that is a chaotic decision. Still in front of us... new decisions will come. We know that now the merchants will be punished for putting people in without masks. Colleagues! I hope that those who made flowers yesterday at the Freedom Monument without the use of state resources... I mean, I am not talking about the highest officials of our country, who do not have to spend their money on flowers, but about those who are talking about their money... searched for where to find some flowers... I hope they also realized that there are times when on November 18 you have to look for flowers in some underground warehouse, because all shops, flower shops... Well, it's not a Sakta market... flower shops are closed. And it's just to look for those flowers to take them to the Freedom Monument... those flowers that are then harvested, because the President has to put the flowers at a clean monument. Then in order to buy these flowers, you have to try to find them in some underground situation, because it's hard 18 November - it's a holiday. Colleagues, I call on you not to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U7	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U8	Dear colleagues, There is a need to agree with my colleague Julia Stepanenko. It is absolutely clear that the government is not prepared for this second wave, although the government itself, the Ministry of Health, has spoken so much and warned so much in spring and summer and has called for the second wave to be prepared. Here... I look, for example, at the recent response received a few days ago to Members' questions about the Ministry of Economics' action and support programme. It is very clear here: we inform you that the Ministry of Economics developed new regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers during the period from 7 November to 9 November – “Regulations on aiding taxpayers to continue their activities in the context of the Covid-19 crisis”. Colleagues! It is absolutely clear that the Ministry of Economics prepared these regulations, the new ones, within three days. Three days - from 7 November to 9 November. That's why... In this situation, it is very difficult for me to imagine how, within three days, it would have been possible to prepare a quality support programme for entrepreneurship or to take any serious, balanced decisions at all. That's why, today, it's all the more amazing that we... It is 19 November, colleagues, and it would have been entirely natural from the ministers responsible - to find that, in three days, it is likely that quality decisions were not made, understanding the mistakes made and now offering a solution on how to correct them. That is the question, for example, which was also raised by one of the government's ministers: it is absolutely unclear why beauty salons are banned. What do they differ from hairdressers’ services? There, perhaps, security measures are even more stringent than... better quality than hairdressers. Public catering is also unclear. Why do those workers who work in large companies, that is, in jobs with canteens... The Saeima, my colleague, is in such a salt with privileges... is in a privileged situation compared to those who work in small or medium-sized enterprises and who do not have such canteens where they work? Why in the first case these epidemiological risks are created, and in the second they are different... Is that so? There are quite a lot of questions about this, colleagues, and I very much doubt that what was developed within three days is indeed qualitative. Let us remember, colleagues, the policy of cut-off benefits developed by the government or, more precisely, by the Ministry of Finance together with the State Revenue Service, which has led us to a greater fall in gross domestic product in the second quarter than in Estonia or Lithuania! And let's remember what the government now offers... It's about this second wave... there, the policy of this cut-off allowance is almost exactly the same as that called for by both the opposition and myself in April. Is this not going to happen again? That is why I would call on the government to step up its preparations for decision-making. Think very carefully again... as minimum... on these two sectors - public catering and beauty salons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U9	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U10	Hello, dear colleagues! Well, that's the consequences we're looking at today... for the work not done during the summer, because it was predicted that there would be a second wave. And we need to prepare for it with both mask supplies and other measures. And it is necessary to be strictly described for all stages - the first stage, the second, the third, the fourth... And what the Cabinet looks at in its sitting... is a change of law or order, and then we wait three days - or even five other times - until it comes to the Saeima, and then we start discussing it. Well, if we need to put an emergency in the country and it depends on whether there will be a lot of deaths, then we need an immediate, urgent... if not on the same day, at least the next day it is necessary to convene an extraordinary sitting - at least in virtual terms - and to take a decision so that the order immediately becomes operational. That's one. Second. The order must also contain an annotation or rules how and what... and when, from when the time starts paying the cut-off allowance, because... The SRS knows very well what is registered in the Register of Enterprises and how taxpayers or... self-employed... They know everything, how... in which sector they pay taxes. And if we know that this order will apply to those sectors and professions, it will automatically... It is not necessary to apply individually for a stop benefit, but simply to transfer money to that person, and all because we decide to close his business with a decision and thus take away the only income for his family. Well, then we automatically transfer them money in a few days. Then we can explain - we did right or did wrong - but people are safe, and Members are sure we made a good decision for our Latvian people. The Social Democratic Party 'Conciliation' cannot support Order No. 665 on declaring the emergency situation and suspending this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U11	Thank you, colleagues. I still need to clarify it once again. I am referring in particular to Mr Klementyev, who spoke about this. The government's decision on the emergency entered into force immediately after its adoption. So this decision, which we are debating, is already in force. The Saeima shall only re-examine it in order to reject or re-approve it if necessary. Once again, this order, the government order, has entered into force immediately after its adoption. We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U12	Yeah, colleagues. I understand, too, that this government's decision came into force immediately, and therefore the Saeima has the right to question this decision, and therefore not to approve it; it would immediately repeal it. That is why there is also this debate, so there is also this explanation. And what I wanted to add is thank you to Mr Dombrovskis for, let us say, continuing this topic of compensation. So, according to the rhetoric of the government and the answers of the government, it can be said: honored teachers of interest education, you are most likely, as we also see from all the answers, this period, which began on 14 October... until the start of the emergency... there will be no compensation at all. No way! You were just forgotten about it, and now... What is it? It is about the government expecting this approval from the European Commission to provide this selective support for economic activities. So it's turned... At present, aid to those who have already been strangled is called: the preferential treatment of economic operators - those who are prohibited from working. Just think of the fact that you are now in a situation where it is in aid, the gulfs that will be transferred to you perhaps sometime in December or January - it is selective... it is a selective support for you... when you get it, honored beauty salon workers, bartenders and officiants, and cooks. This is a special preferential for you. Thank you, colleagues. I call again (Not to be heard.) ... not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U14	Good morning, society as a whole! Good morning, colleagues! Clearly, what the government is doing in the context of the crisis is doing this: we will look at what is doing somewhere in Europe, and then let us try to copy something and present something with serious faces. And then we will tell people who may not have had time to go into the ground that we need some sort of harmonisation from the European Commission or do not yet know where, and then we will think when we help people. Actually... As we remember, it was said in spring that now we do not have to follow fiscal discipline in Latvia and that the government we love can borrow as much as it wants. And the government does. Where government uses it, we do not, of course, know... We do not really know, at all, because people are not there; but there is no harmonisation to help the people of our country, especially those who suffer the most in this crisis. If I wanted to help you, then the government would have done it a long time ago. For the rest. Those absurd decisions - now we're going to close a bigger store so that there's a bigger crowd in a smaller store! It is like public transport, which we will release less frequently, so that public transport is more complete. And then we'll make one picture with masks, and another one without masks and serious faces, we'll talk about a pandemic, an epidemic and something that's not yet. And... while again we will get another harmonisation somewhere in the European Commission or somewhere else. When can we do something ourselves? What then do we have a parliament? What do we have a government for if we have to ask permission for Macron or, I don't know, for Merkel, do we have a Government for Dombrovskis, who sits there? Well, if he already represents Latvia's interests, if he is already in such a high position, in Europe such a leader, why does our country have the least assistance, even in the context of the Baltic States? I have not heard that some Lithuanian or Estonian politicians hold such high positions in Europe, but they have more, we have less. What are they doing there, Blue and Dombrovskis, in Europe? Why don't we help people? And I'll answer why. Because these politicians, who are in those positions or who are in positions here, in the government and in the parliament, are the only goal and only desire to take care of themselves. What is being done, the beloved society, is in fact focusing on having a warm place in the future, either in Brussels or in Washington. Nothing else! This has nothing to do with supporting you. Nor does it have any connection with the distribution of the community on the territory of Latvia. It is completely pointless - a small pepperboard or a small restaurant, a pub must be closed so that people die in hunger, but a shop called Depo, whose owners seem to be sponsors of Unity or who is there... Well, Prudentia and Rungainis... Well, that virus doesn't go so far. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Well, that's the same thing about masks. If these masks are so protective, why not force anything to harden? If everyone has to walk in masks and they are so effective, why force the business to hard people? Why must we bring people into poverty? Then let everybody work! If the Depo can work, then the little pepperboard can work. The beauty salon can also work. And that's the difference between the hairdresser and the beauty... there is a very interesting division. Why do I mention all this? Because (The Sound Break) ... There's just a chaotic activity going on here. The vaccines are the same. Now Viņķele has told us that vaccines will be sometime in January or... AstraZeneca, which has not yet tested them at all. Nothing has been planned, even so far nothing has been done. Well, just chaos, absolute chaos! And the biggest thing these politicians can do is what Puce did from "Development/About!" , which we confirmed again today as a Member - to steal a bit of the passes by lying a little bit. Well, it's all the essence of its politicians, the whole basic criterion of the Saeima Members from today is clear - the Saeima Member can be a liar, the Saeima Member can steal a bit of passes... and so on. For the people to take care of - it's second-class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U15	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U16	Yeah. What I would like to add on behalf of the Commission was yes, there were also different opinions in the Commission. We also heard experts, and questions were asked, including questions about these seemingly illogical... existing illogicals. And this is the explanation of the epidemiologists that these farm shops have to be shut down, because it reduces the risks and reduces these... that people will gather in great effort. These restrictions are necessary to ensure that its safety does not deteriorate further. And what I would also like to stress was talked about is that these shops are closed only on holiday. On the other hand, if we are talking about Europe, it should be recalled that even on weekdays these shops do not work, only food shops work. However, I call on the Saeima to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-19-PT13-2138-U17	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Cabinet Order of 13 November 2020 No. 665 “Amendment to the Cabinet Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 59, for - 8, for - 25. Decision adopted. Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, Yesterday, a round anniversary was celebrated by Member Ivan Klementyev, and today's birthday is for our colleague Regina Lochmele. We welcome them! (Applause) The agenda has been examined. Registration of Members' presence. It's been a success. So I closed the sitting. Let us start work again after 15 minutes, when we will continue to look at the agenda of the remote sitting on 5 November this year. So let's get back to work in 15 minutes.
